Business review 46 47 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Operating review Review of operations continued Engineering, Training Services and Production Results Revenue Solutions Reported revenue for the year decreased by 31.5% to US$ millions Three of our business units Engineering US$349.7 million 2008: US$510.4 million and revenue Services, Training Services and Production excluding pass-through revenue decreased by 32.0% 07 08 09 Solutions are reported together as Engineering, to US$309.7 million 2008: US$455.6 million.
While a Training Services and Production Solutions.
proportion of the reporting segments revenues are non-US Dollar denominated and were therefore Engineering Services predominantly provides early impacted by the strengthening of the US Dollar, the stage engineering studies such as conceptual studies decrease is primarily due to the decline in activity levels or FEED studies.
With the rapid fall in oil prices in the for Engineering Services and Training Services.
second half of 2008 and a more uncertain economic outlook, a significant number of customers postponed Despite the reduction in activity in Engineering Services such studies or re-phased work, resulting in a significant and Training Services and the strengthening of the US reduction in activity during 2009.
While staff numbers Dollar, net profit was broadly in line with the prior year in our Woking engineering office have seen a modest at US$32.4 million 2008: US$33.1 million.
Net margin reduction, we have seen a substantial reduction in the on revenue excluding pass-through revenue increased number of self-employed contractors, which has to 10.4% 2008: 7.3%, reflecting an increase in net reduced from more than 250 to around 50, as existing margins in Engineering Services, due to an increased projects have reached completion.
Moving into 2010, contribution from the lower-cost Mumbai and Chennai we have been participating in more tendering activity, engineering offices, and in Production Solutions due Net profit which should signal a modest improvement in activity to good operational performance on the Dubai US$ millions levels.
We have substantially grown our Mumbai and Petroleum contract.
Chennai engineering offices, which predominantly 07 08 09 support our Engineering & Construction activities.
At 31 December 2009, headcount, which includes long-term contractors, was broadly unchanged at In Training Services, we have seen a variation in activity 2,900 2008: 3,000, although this includes an increase levels in different regions, though, in general, there has in our engineering offices in Mumbai and Chennai of 1 been a reduction in technical and other training around 300 employees, offset by a reduction in activities as customers have sought to defer self-employed contractors at our Woking engineering discretionary expenditure.
We have refocused our office, predominantly due to lower activity levels.
business development activities to concentrate on high-value opportunities and we are seeing an Backlog for the Engineering, Training Services and improvement in the pipeline of opportunities.
Production Solutions reporting segment was US$0.3 billion at year end 2008: US$0.5 billion due principally Activity levels for Production Solutions, of which the to expected lower activity in Production Solutions well groups service operator role for Dubai Petroleum is operations management business.
a significant part, have remained robust.
Some of our consultancy and technology businesses have experienced a reduction in activity during the year as customers have deferred discretionary expenditure, Net profit margin though there have been indications of improvement % as the year has progressed.
On our service operator contract with Dubai Petroleum, we delivered a 07 08 09 -2% particularly good operational performance, exceeding the years production targets agreed with our customer.
On revenue excluding pass-through revenue 1 Engineering offices in Mumbai and Chennai are managed by Engineering Services, and headcount statistics are reported within the Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions reporting segment: however, these offices principally provide engineering services to support Engineering & Construction.
At 31 December 2009, the Mumbai and Chennai offices had a total of approximately 1,300 employees.
6.0 24.3 450.2 7.3 33.1 510.4 10.4 32.4 349.7 Business review 48 49 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Operating review Review of operations continued Energy Developments As operator with a 30% interest, Energy Developments, FPF1 floating production facility, undeployed Revenue Where we can leverage our service capabilities along with its partners Petronas, PetroVietnam and During July 2009, Energy Developments acquired US$ millions to mitigate risks and reduce costs, Energy Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company a floating production facility, AHOO1 subsequently Developments selectively co-invests alongside KUFPEC drilled a number of successful near-field renamed the FPF1, from Hess and Endeavour Energy 07 08 09 the groups partners in oil & gas upstream appraisal wells and is assessing a second phase of UK.
The FPF1 had been deployed on the Hess developments and energy infrastructure to development of Block PM304.
A FEED study for the operated Ivanhoe and Rob Roy Fields, in the UK North create additional value for the group.
second phase has been commissioned and a field Sea, since 1989 with the Renee and Rubie Fields development programme to develop the near-field produced over it since 1999.
The vessel, weighing During the year, good progress was made on Energy opportunities is expected to be submitted for approval approximately 17,000 tonnes, has a processing Developments existing portfolio of operational assets during the second half of 2010. capacity of 70,000 bpd of oil and 42.5 mmscfd of Don Southwest, West Don, Chergui, Cendor, Ohanet gas with water injection capability of 72,000 bpd and and the Kyrgyz Petroleum Company refinery : Ohanet, Algeria treatment of 75,000 bpd.
The vessel will remain in Energy Developments, in a joint venture with BHP dry dock at the McNulty offshore facility in NewcastleDon Southwest and West Don, UKCS Billiton as joint venture operator, Japan Ohanet Oil & upon-Tyne, while options for its upgrade, modification The highlight of the first half was the commencement Gas Co, and Woodside Energy Algeria, has invested and redeployment on fields, including those where of production from both the Don Southwest and West in excess of US$100 million for a 10% share in a Risk Energy Developments has or can take an interest, Don fields in the UK North Sea.
This represents a very Service Contract RSC with Sonatrach, Algerias are considered.
significant milestone in the development and was national oil company.
Through Engineering & achieved in less than a year from field development Construction, we undertook the EPC contract for the Permit NT P68, Australia programme approval.
The first of two planned gas processing facilities in joint venture with ABB During the second half of the year, Energy Developments EBITDA production wells on West Don came on-stream in late Lummus and were responsible for part of the on-site signed an agreement with MEO Australia Limited US$ millions April 2009, followed by two production wells on Don commissioning works.
First gas for export began to exit its interest in Permit NT P68 in Australia.
No Southwest in late June 2009, although one of the wells flowing in late 2003. consideration was paid in relation to the transaction 07 08 09 was sidetracked in early 2010 after the original well and the carrying value of the asset US$4.8 million failed to flow significant amounts of oil.
The sidetracked The plant continued to perform well in 2009.
Overall was written-off during the second half of 2009. well commenced production in early March 2010, production was somewhat lower than in 2008 at an which facilitated tie-in and commencement of the two average of approximately 123,100 bpd of oil equivalent Results Don Southwest water injection wells.
The second 2008: 147,500 bpd of oil equivalent, due in part to a Despite considerably lower oil prices in 2009 production well on West Don was brought on-stream in planned shutdown in late 2009.
On average, we earned compared to the prior year, Energy Developments August 2009 and the water injection well was brought our share of the monthly liquids production by the 15th revenue increased to US$248.7 million 2008: on-stream in September 2009. day of the month 2008: 7th, reflecting lower average US$153.4 million, due to commencement of exports 1 oil & gas prices and, to a lesser extent, lower average from the West Don and Don Southwest fields during Total production for 2009 for the Don fields was 3.1 production rates.
It is expected that we will earn our the year and a full years contribution from the Chergui million barrels, with our share totalling 1.2 million defined return by November 2011, at which point the gas plant, which commenced exports in August 2008. barrels.
As originally planned, export switched to a RSC contract will expire.
permanent pipeline export route over Lundins Thistle Net profit for the year was higher at US$46.2 million platform in early March 2010.
The new system is Chergui field, Tunisia 2008: US$21.9 million.
Adjusting for current and prior expected to reduce interruption and improve In Tunisia, the Chergui gas plant in which Energy year non-recurring items, net profit increased to production stability and export operations.
Developments has a 45% operating interest produced US$49.9 million 2008: US$38.5 million, reflecting an average of 26.5 million standard cubic feet per day commencement of exports from the West Don and Net profit During the drilling of the Don Southwest water injection mmscfd of gas during the year 2008, from August to Don Southwest fields during the year and a full years US$ millions wells, two cost-effective pilot holes were drilled into December: 24.3 mmscfd, which is in excess of the contribution from the Chergui gas plant, partially offset adjacent reservoir structures, both of which original nameplate design capacity of 20 mmscfd by lower oil & gas prices.
Current and prior year 07 08 09 encountered oil.
One of the pilot holes was drilled into following commissioning of a refrigeration unit and non-recurring adjustments were as follows: an area known as the Horst, which has excellent debottlenecking of the plant.
Engineering and reservoir quality with high oil saturations.
The other procurement activities have commenced in relation to Current and prior year: pilot hole was drilled into Area H, which revealed a the tie-in of a third well, which should see an increase an impairment provision of US$3.7 million US$4.8 60-feet oil column in the Brent formation.
in the capacity of the plant.
million less a tax credit of US$1.1 million against Energy Developments investment in Permit NT At 31 December 2009, Energy Developments estimate KPC refinery, Kyrgyzstan P68 2008: US$3.5 million US$5.0 million less a of proven and probable reserves net entitlement basis Energy Developments owns a 50% share in the Kyrgyz tax credit of US$1.5 million for the Don Southwest and West Don fields is 19.5 Petroleum Company KPC which is engaged in the million barrels 2008: 22.2 million barrels, including the refining of crude oil and the marketing of oil products Prior year only: Area 5 Horst.
The net downward revision is due to from the KPC refinery.
Offshore Engineering & a US$8.2 million charge in relation to a currency production experience to date on both fields.
Operations operates the refinery on behalf of the joint hedge for capital expenditure on the Don area venture partners on a reimbursable basis.
During 2009, development, which, while being an economic Cendor PM304, Malaysia the 10,000 bpd capacity refinery performed in line with hedge, was deemed an ineffective cash flow The Cendor field, in Block PM304, offshore Peninsular expectations, producing an average of approximately hedge under International Accounting Standard 39 Malaysia, produced an average of 14,400 bpd of 2,000 bpd 2008: 2,800 bpd of principally gasoline, Financial Instruments: Recognition and oil over the year 2008: 14,700 bpd and achieved diesel and fuel oil.
The decrease in throughput was due Measurement production uptime of over 99%.
Towards the end of to lower demand.
2009, Offshore Engineering & Operations installed costs of US$4.9 million US$9.8 million less a tax a Caltec WELLCOM multiphase boosting unit on credit of US$4.9 million in relation to the one of the wells, which has subsequently seen a unsuccessful Prospero well in the Greater Don area marked increase in output.
Further units are now 1 For example, Brent, a benchmark crude oil, averaged US$62 under consideration.
An analysis of Energy Developments oil & gas reserve per barrel for 2009 2008: US$97 per barrel.
entitlements is presented on page 143.
33.4 82.8 132.8 21.9 89.1 153.4 46.2 160.9 248.7 Business review 50 51 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Financial review Financial review Revenue Net profit Interest Earnings per share Revenue Group revenue increased by 9.8% to US$3,655.4 Net profit for the year increased to US$363.0 million Net finance income for the year was lower at US$6.4 Fully diluted earnings per share increased to 103.19 US$ millions million 2008: US$3,329.5 million due to strong 2008: US$265.0 million.
million 2008: US$10.9 million, excluding finance cents per share 2008: 77.11 cents, an increase of growth in Engineering & Construction and Energy charges in relation to hedges deemed ineffective under 33.8%, in line with the groups increase in profit for 07 08 09 Developments, offset by a decrease in Offshore Profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited IAS 39 as the effect of higher average net cash the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders.
Engineering & Operations and Engineering, Training shareholders increased to US$353.6 million, an balances during 2009 was more than offset by lower Services and Production Solutions.
Strong growth increase of 33.4%, driven primarily by strong growth interest rates.
Operating cash flow and liquidity in Engineering & Construction, which accounted for in Engineering & Construction and strong growth and The net cash generated from operations was approximately two-thirds of the groups revenue, was improvement in net margin in Energy Developments, Taxation US$1,276.3 million 2008, as restated: US$586.6 as a result of high levels of activity on ongoing lumpfollowing commencement of production from the Don An analysis of the income tax charge is set out in note million, representing 228.3% of EBITDA 2008, as sum EPC contracts, including new projects awarded fields and a full years contribution from the Chergui 6 to the financial statements.
The income tax charge restated: 140.0%.
The increase in net cash inflows during the year.
The increase in revenues in Energy gas plant.
The net margin for the group increased to as a percentage of profit before tax in 2009 was was due principally to advances received from Developments was as a result of commencement 9.7% 2008: 8.0%, broadly in line with the increase substantially lower at 18.9% 2008: 26.1%.
The customers and billings in excess of cost and estimated of exports from the Don fields and a full years in the groups operating margin.
decrease in the effective tax rate compared to the earnings in relation to Engineering & Construction contribution from the Chergui gas plant, which prior year is due principally to: contracts secured during 2009. commenced exports in August 2008.
The decrease EBITDA in reported revenues in Offshore Engineering & EBITDA increased by 33.4% to US$559.0 million 2008: a lower than average tax charge in Energy At 31 December 2009, the groups net cash had Operations was primarily as a result of the US$419.0 million, representing an EBITDA margin of Developments, which fully utilised the tax increased to US$1,300.1 million 2008: US$551.8 strengthening of the US Dollar, as the majority of 15.3% 2008: 12.6%.
The increase in margin was due allowances available to it during 2009, million as a result of: revenues are denominated in Sterling, while the to growth in the higher margin Energy Developments including claiming a ring-fenced expenditure Net profit decrease in Engineering, Training Services and reporting segment.
Energy Developments share of supplement available to operators within the operating profits generated of US$576 million US$ millions Production Solutions was principally as a result of group EBITDA, excluding the effect of corporate, UK Continental Shelf net working capital inflows of US$700 million, a decrease in activity levels for Engineering Services consolidation and elimination adjustments, increased to a shift in profitability within Engineering, Training including US$439 million of advance payments 07 08 09 and Training Services.
28.2% 2008: 20.8%, while Engineering & Construction Services and Production Solutions from the UK received in relation to Engineering & Construction was broadly consistent with the prior year at 60.8% to overseas, including increased profitability in awards less US$81 million of cash outflows in Operating profit 2008: 59.0%, and Offshore Engineering & Operations Production Solutions, where a zero tax rate applies relation to the growth of work in progress on other Group operating profit increased by 24.1% to US$441.2 and Engineering, Training Services and Production to the business units largest contract with Dubai Engineering & Construction projects million 2008: US$355.6 million and operating margins Solutions were lower at 3.5% 2008: 5.8% and 7.5% Petroleum, and increased to 12.1% 2008: 10.7%, reflecting the 2008: 14.4%, respectively, following a decrease in taxes paid of over US$87 million increased operating profit contribution from the higher reported EBITDA.
confirmation during the year of the applicability of investing activities of US$343 million, including margin Energy Developments reporting segment.
a lower tax rate in relation to the groups projects, US$221 million in relation to capital expenditure Engineering & Construction operating profit increased Backlog principally in Engineering & Construction, in Oman on Energy Developments portfolio of assets, by 33.3% to US$321.6 million 2008: US$241.2 million The groups combined backlog at the end of 2009 predominantly on the Don fields, US$29 million on due to strong growth in activity levels and continued was approximately US$8.1 billion 2008: US$4.0 billion, Cendor PM304 near-field development and US$26 good operational performance.
Energy Developments reflecting our high level of order intake during year, million on the acquisition of the FPF1 floating operating profit increased by 49.7% to US$77.4 million particularly in the Engineering & Construction production facility 2008: US$51.7 million following commencement of reporting segment.
production form the Don fields and a full years financing activities, in particular, payment of the contribution from the Chergui gas plant.
Operating Exchange rates 2008 final dividend and 2009 interim dividend profit in Offshore Engineering & Operations decreased Our reporting currency is US Dollars.
The US Dollar EBITDA totalling approximately US$99 million.
by 23.1% to US$17.8 million 2008: US$23.2 million was considerably stronger against Sterling in 2009 and US$ millions Net cash US$ millions 2009 2008 due principally to the strengthening of the US Dollar, there was therefore a significant impact on the reported Cash and short-term deposits 1,417.4 694.4 while Engineering, Training Services and Production 07 08 09 results of our UK trading activities, principally within Solutions decreased by 28.5% to US$34.5 million Offshore Engineering & Operations.
The impact on the Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 117.3 142.6 2008: US$48.3 million due to the decrease in activity Offshore Engineering & Operations reporting segment Net cash 1,300.1 551.8 levels for Engineering Services and Training Services, is discussed further on page 44.
The table below partly offset by an improvement in the operating sets out the average and year-end exchange rates The group decreased its levels of interest-bearing loans and borrowings to US$117.3 million 2008: US$142.6 margin from the lower-cost Mumbai and Chennai for the US Dollar and Sterling for the years ended million following repayment of an overdraft facility previously utilised by the Offshore Engineering & Operations engineering offices, and in Production Solutions 31 December 2009 and 2008 as used by the group and Training Services business units.
As a result of lower interest-bearing loans and borrowings and higher cash due to good operational performance on the Dubai for financial reporting purposes.
and short-term deposits, the groups gross gearing ratio fell to 13.2% 2008: 25.5%.
Gearing ratio US$ millions unless otherwise stated 2009 2008 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings A 117.3 142.6 Financial reporting exchange rates Cash and short-term deposits B 1,417.4 694.4 Net cash debt C B A 1,300.1 551.8 US$ Sterling 2009 2008 Total net assets D 890.5 558.8 Average rate for the year 1.56 1.85 Gross gearing ratio A D 13.2% 25.5% Year-end rate 1.62 1.46 Attributable to Petrofac Limited Net gearing ratio C D Net cash Net cash Shareholders position position 301.3 188.7 2,440 419.0 265.0 3,330 559.0 353.6 3,655 Corporate social responsibility 52 53 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Corporate social responsibility The year saw us take an important step in growing Financial review our reputation as an ethical partner committed to Corporate social upholding the highest standards of behaviour.
In continued January, we signed up to the United Nations Global responsibility Compact UNGC.
This agreement is a voluntary framework for groups such as Petrofac that are committed to aligning their businesses to ten principles The groups total gross borrowings before associated Shareholders funds in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment debt acquisition costs at the end of 2009 were Total equity at 31 December 2009 was US$906.8 and anti-corruption.
The main elements 51.0% was denominated in US Dollars 2008: 45.9% of the net movement were the increase in retained The spirit of the UNGC is reflected in our policies and 49.0% was denominated in Sterling 2008: 51.8% earnings for the year of US$256.6 million, a gain on and Code of Business Conduct available online at in 2008 the balance of 2.3% was denominated in foreign currency translation of US$15.1 million and www.
the net change in the fair value of derivatives of US$29.2 million.
We are committed to setting the highest standards As detailed in note 31 to the financial statements, the in all matters relating to Health, Safety, Security, group maintained a balanced borrowing profile with Return on capital employed Environment and Integrity Assurance HSSEIA and to 47.2% of borrowings maturing within one year and The groups return on capital employed for the year be acknowledged as experts in delivering high level 52.8% maturing between one and five years 2008: ended 31 December 2009 was 47.7% 2008: 52.7%.
operational safety performance across our diverse 36.8% and 63.2%.
The borrowings repayable within workforces in all our operational environments.
one year include US$46.6 million of bank overdrafts Dividends and revolving credit facilities representing 37.9% of The Company proposes a final dividend of 25.10 cents While our core values and vision are unchanged, total gross borrowings, which are expected to be per share for the year ended 31 December 2009 2008: our policies for health & safety, security, environment, renewed during 2010 in the normal course of business 17.90 cents, which, if approved, will be paid to quality and integrity assurance were revised in 2009 2008: US$45.3 million and 30.6% of total gross shareholders on 21 May 2010 provided they were on to align with the new organisation structure and now borrowings.
Shareholders who have provide greater detail.
These policies are approved at not elected before 5 March 2010 to receive dividends Board level and are publicly available on our website at Prior to 31 December 2009, the groups policy was to in US Dollars will receive a Sterling equivalent of 16.69 http: www.
html as well as hedge between 60% and 80% of interest payable on pence per share.
being widely published within the business.
floating rate interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
On 31 December 2009, a number of the groups hedging Each Petrofac business unit has a detailed instruments matured and a decision was taken to management system through which the group policies revise the groups hedging policy to give the group are implemented.
These are subject to internal audit flexibility to repay borrowing should it so choose.
As and also to external independent verification in such, none of the groups borrowings were hedged at accordance with international standards such as 31 December 2009 2008: 65.1%.
An analysis of the Forward-looking statements ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. derivative instruments used by the group to hedge its The Business Review pages 18 to 52 contains interest rate and other exposures is contained in note forward-looking statements with respect to the financial 31 to the financial statements.
condition, results, and operations of the group.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of None of the Companys subsidiaries are subject risks, uncertainties or assumptions that could cause to any material restrictions on their ability to transfer actual results or events to differ materially from those funds in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances expressed or implied by the forward-looking to the Company.
These risks, uncertainties or assumptions could adversely affect the outcome and financial Capital expenditure effects of the plans and events described herein.
Capital expenditure on property, plant and Forward-looking statements contained in the Business equipment during the year was US$375.4 million Review regarding past trends or activities should not 2008: US$255.5 million.
The principal elements be taken as representation that such trends or activities of capital expenditure were: will continue in the future.
Petrofac Limited undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements additions to oil & gas assets in relation to contained in this review or any other forward-looking development expenditure on Energy statements made.
The success of our business is Developments interest in the Don assets of US$274.1 million inextricably linked to the welfare Energy Developments acquisition of the FPF1 of our people and the communities floating production facility of US$26.4 million where we live and work.
Our longCapital expenditure on intangible oil & gas assets term performance is dependent during the year was US$29.2 million 2008: US$37.0 million in respect of capitalised expenditure on nearupon their understanding, goodwill field appraisal wells in relation to Energy Developments and active support.
interest in Block PM304, offshore Malaysia.
Corporate social responsibility 54 55 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Corporate social responsibility In terms of occupational safety performance, our Vehicle safety Health, safety and security 2009 statistics show a continued good performance.
Accidents involving vehicles still remain one of the most We will never knowingly compromise the health and In 2009, our employees and subcontractors completed frequent causes of fatalities in our industry.
safety of individuals or their communities.
In practice, 67 million man-hours 2008: 67 million of activity.
this commitment is expressed through two separate In addition to a code of conduct for drivers and strands of activity: firstly, we work hard to prevent We report our performance according to the passengers travelling in company vehicles, driving occupational safety risks to individuals which might Safer.
Occupational Safety and Health Administration rules safely is one of our eight Golden Rules of Safety which result in personal injury: and secondly through a strong and in 2009 our Recordable Incident Frequency Rate apply to all employees, wherever they work.
In order to emphasis on the technical integrity of the plants we 67 million was 0.38 per 200,000 man-hours 2008: 0.32.
Our maintain focus on this important area, we report driving design, build and operate, we strive to minimise the risk man-hours Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate in 2009 was 0.02 statistics separately from other incidents.
In 2009, of major accidents such as fire and explosion which worked in 2009 Secure.
Although these figures compare well vehicles travelled more than 30 million km between can cause large numbers of fatalities and widespread with industry published data, our target remains to locations or on project sites.
That is equivalent to plant damage.
Both require constant management achieve zero LTIs.
driving 700 times around the world.
The Driving attention, vigilance and leadership.
Incident Frequency Rate major or serious vehicle All incidents and accidents are investigated and actions incidents in 2009 was 0.29 incidents per million km are followed up using a group-wide incident reporting driven 2008: 0.22. tool.
This tool also ensures that any serious incidents, together with the relevant outcomes, are reported While none of the recorded incidents resulted in directly to senior management.
During the year, significant injuries in 2009, driving continues to be a 23 2008: 17 Major Potential Incidents were recorded.
significant risk area for the business and will, therefore, Potential is the key word here the criteria for continue to receive management attention in the reporting is the potential for harm, so although very coming year.
few of these incidents actually resulted in personal injury or damage, all were reviewed in great detail.
Staff health and welfare Maintaining high standards of health and welfare Petrofac historic safety performance among our people is essential to the smooth operation We drove of the business.
We have measures in place to assess 30 million km 05 06 07 08 09 the health and fitness of senior management in all or 700 times business units and to provide comprehensive medical around the assessments for those at risk.
This particularly applies world to employees involved in overseas and offshore assignments.
Health suites manned by medical professionals are available at the majority of our offices and operational sites.
Where necessary occupational health surveillance measures are also put in place.
Security Our people frequently work in remote and potentially dangerous environments where security can often be a real challenge.
Recordable Incident Frequency Rate At Petrofac we are fully committed to creating a safe Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate working environment for everyone.
This commitment Health suites was demonstrated further during the year by the are available at A Group Incident Review Board, comprising senior appointment of a Group Head of Security to oversee the majority of managers under the chairmanship of the Chief our offices and travel and security plans and to advise and support all Operating Officer, meets quarterly to review any serious operational sites employees in this respect.
Any lessons that can be learnt are then shared across the group and with the wider Security matters are also included as part of the risk industry as appropriate.
review process performed when we consider working on a new project or in a new country.
All potential security issues for projects and locations are assessed in the early stages of the planning process.
Incident rate 200,000 man-hours 0.07 0.55 0.06 0.41 0.07 0.35 0.03 0.32 0.02 0.38 Corporate social responsibility 56 57 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Corporate social responsibility We held our second group-wide, month-long Work is currently under way to establish the position Environment environment initiative in November 2009, encouraging of the groups UK activities under the Governments A high level of environmental performance is an staff and their families to be part of the solution.
A Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Recycle.
important priority for the group.
We use a systematic wide range of events and activities took place at offices Scheme which will commence implementation approach to environmental management to ensure that and project locations around the world.
During the during 2010. we conduct operations in a way that minimises their campaign a total of 1,100 trees were planted in various environmental impact.
This approach is applied across Reduce.
locations, including Aberdeen, Kyrgyzstan and Sharjah, Integrity assurance our operations regardless of the level of regulatory or Recycle adding to the 1,000 trees planted during the 2008 It is our responsibility to safeguard everyone associated other requirements in the countries where we operate.
In addition, our inaugural childrens art with operations which are designed, constructed, The ISO 14001 international standard which is Distributed competition, open to our employees families, received operated, managed or supported by Petrofac.
independently audited, covers 98% of the work Educate.
unwanted clothing around 300 entries and was a great way of taking the we do, calculated by man-hours expended.
to charities Recycled products environment message to the younger generation.
Managing and operating mature assets in harsh displayed in offices conditions can present particular challenges.
We Planet Petrofac Collection of Replace.
Emissions trading and reporting have developed a comprehensive approach to Asset Launched in late 2008, Planet Petrofac is an internal mobile phones, As stated in last years Annual Report, we have Integrity which ensures appropriate focus and campaign targeted at raising awareness of environment glasses and established independently verified baselines for management attention.
Every month through the Asset issues among our people.
The campaign seeks to batteries for recycling CO2 emissions in order that we can monitor our Integrity Review Board AIRB, established in 2008, we address key environmental activities in the context carbon footprint.
review Asset Integrity using a range of indicators with of our business, but it also embraces employees operations managers from all of our operated sites responsibilities and opportunities as individual citizens.
This provides a forum for peer review tonnes of CO2.
This increase reflects increased activity and support as well as a clear line-of-sight for senior in Engineering & Construction site work, the first full management and forms the basis for onward reporting year of Chergui operations and the commencement of to the Board.
production from the Don fields.
Our CO2 emissions are largely due to emissions from vehicles and construction During the year we performed detailed inspections and Reduce activities together with fuel and energy usage at project audits of the Heather and Thistle platforms in the North and office locations and necessary gas flaring at Sea, our Southern North Sea operations including the Initiatives Issued reusable production facilities.
The figures include our equity Bacton terminal and the Cendor MOPU in Malaysia bags ownership activities on a net basis but do not include with the findings reported to the AIRB.
These detailed 400 reusable locations where we manage facilities on behalf of our reviews are also provided to the relevant customers as water bottles customers.
Petrofac carries out all the necessary structured and thorough evidence of the way integrity donated to UK school monitoring and data collection to allow verified is managed on their assets.
Cycle to work information relating to these facilities to be reported campaign by our customers.
Industry involvement Monitoring our We contribute experience and expertise to our industry carbon footprint Petrofac also performs monitoring for all operated assets in many ways.
as required under the Oslo-Paris OSPAR Convention for the protection of the North Sea.
This involves We are active supporters of Step Change, the UK oil monitoring all discharges to the sea for hydrocarbons, & gas industry safety initiative, where we participate in heavy metal and radiation contamination.
In addition the Leadership Team, Asset Integrity Steering Group to carbon dioxide, emissions to atmosphere are and the Human Factors Working Group.
monitored for sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen and volatile organic carbons.
All wastes leaving operated Our Group Director of HSSEIA is a member of the facilities are segregated and reported by category.
industrys Helicopter Task Force, which was Educate All chemicals in use in the North Sea are certified for established during 2009 following the loss of 16 Initiatives use under the Offshore Chemicals Regulations.
The lives in a North Sea helicopter accident.
Presentations to use and discharge of these chemicals is monitored local schools Environmental and reported annually.
The chemicals in use are In addition, we share data on safety and integrity beach walk reviewed annually and where a more environmentally management with our peers, helping to raise Lunchtime friendly alternative is identified, a plan to substitute the standards across our industry.
lectures chemical is put in place.
Environmental art competition Emergency response In the UK, Petrofac Energy Development Limited Our Emergency Response and Crisis Management PEDL partakes in the emissions trading and reporting procedures are subjected to rigorous testing through scheme for operations on the Don fields.
subject to third-party verification to allow carbon dioxide trading within the Emissions Trading Scheme.
Beyond our own operations, we also play a wider role PEDL is partaking as an operator for the first time in in maintaining the oil & gas industrys capability to deal 2009 as a new entrant.
with onshore and offshore emergencies.
Through our Training Services business Petrofac is the leading Details of emissions from the PEDL assets and those provider of emergency response training and, through owned by UK customers are publically available the Emergency Response Service Centre ERSC in Replace through the Environmental Report which is published Aberdeen, we provide a 24-hour integrated response Initiatives on the Department of Energy and Climate Change capability to a range of customers, every day of 1,100 trees website https: www.
planted Wildlife Where Petrofac operates facilities outside the UK, conservation Beach clean-up statutory reporting is carried out in accordance with local regulations with additional internal reporting of relevant data which is not statutory.
Corporate social responsibility 58 59 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Corporate social responsibility Strategy It is essential our employees, regardless of where or Furthermore, and also in support of young talent, we Petrofac has continued through 2009 to push forward when they join the organisation, experience Petrofac launched the Petrofac Royal Academy of Engineering in its aim of being a best-in-class employer within both in similar and consistent ways to ensure that our values Fellowship Programme in September 2009.
As part People are the geographical boundaries and business sectors in and behaviours are clearly recognised and displayed.
of our 250,000 pledge, up to 18 of the UKs top which it operates.
As this global approach becomes more visible we will engineering students will have the opportunity to secure continue to value the differences that do and should a year-long Fellowship through a Masters programme, our most The reorganisation put in place at the start of 2009 exist to ensure our business operates effectively in the before embarking on their chosen career path.
During has helped enable us to continue to work across our local markets in which they operate.
the course of the next three years the successful business to strengthen our organisation structure, Fellows will be supported by technical mentors from processes, systems and behaviours framework.
Our focus in 2010 will be to further develop the work our business.
Petrofac is also providing case study 11,700 valuable Developing the distinctive Petrofac culture is a major we commenced in 2009 in the key areas of resourcing materials and placements within our UK operations.
Employees in objective for our leadership and HR function and efforts and graduate recruitment, talent management and Petrofac will continue in 2010 to align these key elements to succession planning, performance management and One Petrofac asset.
The year also saw us further enhance the way in which we maintain our corporate culture, a key differentiator 2009 review for the group.
We have continued to implement During the period our employee headcount increased initiatives to help our employees both identify with from 11,100 at the end of 2008 to 11,700 at the end this culture and play a key role in it.
During 2009, for of 2009 which has been achieved mainly through example, we introduced a common induction process organic growth.
that incorporates information that every new employee must receive, regardless of where they start with the Supporting talent company.
As part of the induction initiative, a DVD was While the overall headcount has increased, we produced, explaining our approach to people and continue to focus on identifying and developing safety as well as outlining our future business strategy.
individuals within the business with the potential to fulfil both leadership and more technical roles.
This Developing our people group-wide review of talent supports our dual strategy Consistent, high-quality training and development is of both continuing to attract and develop individuals central to the groups progress.
Our training capability 91% of with significant potential whilst also identifying, was enhanced in 2009 by the introduction of a employees fully developing and retaining our existing talent in the comprehensive e-learning system.
Initially piloted in support our values business to meet the challenges in the years to come.
our E&C business, this has now been successfully In 2010 we will continue to add to our Petrofac launched in an additional seven locations worldwide.
leadership development programmes to ensure The system will continue to be rolled out through 2010. that we continue to deepen our bench strength and enhance our succession planning.
The new e-learning system has already demonstrated its worth in several ways, notably by building employee For a number of years we have been attracting the understanding of the groups Code of Business brightest graduate talent to Petrofac and 2009 was Conduct.
The Code was distributed to all employees no exception, with over 130 new graduates joining the during 2009 and by the end of December 2009 more organisation across our geographies and operations.
than 4,000 employees had completed the e-learning 4,000 modules which assess knowledge and understanding of this important document.
Employees who completed COBC e-learning in 2009 91% of total respondents to PetroVoices survey 2009 Corporate social responsibility 60 61 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Corporate social responsibility Our reputation depends upon the provision of Share ownership competent people to work on our projects.
The We have continued to introduce reward and incentive majority of our workforce is now assessed against measures to our employees which ensure they are We continue technical and behavioural competences and we plan to aligned with the groups goals and share in our success.
continue to focus on this critical activity.
As an example At the end of 2009, approximately 28% of employees of this we performed a major review of engineering were participating in at least one of our share incentive to focus on competence in our Indian locations to ensure that we schemes.
Further details can be found in the continue to provide the high-quality service expected Remuneration Report, on pages 80 to 82 of this Report.
Communications improving our Employee survey We continue to focus on improving our communications In 2009 we carried out our second independent activities and during the year launched a global group-wide employee survey, known as PetroVoices.
This has created a single platform communications The aim is to gain insight into employee perceptions on for communicating across the group, enabling our a wide range of matters.
More than 50% of those invited people to interact with each other and with the group to participate took part in the survey and overall the on a variety of topics.
results were positive, showing significant improvement activities.
since 2007 across all categories, including work A structured communications programme was launched conditions and safety, leadership and engagement.
around Project TEMPO, the groups Enterprise Resource Planning initiative, in order to ensure that The groups growth and success over the last two both the user groups and the wider business years was highlighted by the findings, with 91% of understand the different stages of the implementation respondents saying they fully support our values.
The process and the impact this will have on the processes feedback on employee development and fundamental and systems currently in use.
perceptions of the Company was also encouraging.
Measured by questions on our corporate image, Another important initiative was the communications culture and values, the figures have improved by programme put in place around the organisational over 8% since 2007 and we are committed to building changes implemented at the start of the year.
This on these results: the agreed areas of focus for 2010 programme included a brand project which resulted are communications, employee development and in the creation of separate but linked brand identities performance management.
Each local business unit for each of the seven business units in the group.
is also developing its own specific action plan within the context of the overall group aims.
A corporate DVD communicating the groups core capabilities was produced during 2009 and is available Following the launch of the revised Code of Business to view on www.
In addition the quarterly Conduct COBC during the second half of 2009, we magazine, Petrofacts, continues to provide information were pleased to note that 92% of respondents were on the latest news and developments from within the aware of the Code, up from 81% in 2007.
We will group to all employees and external stakeholders.
continue to work to raise this figure towards 100%.
Our second Picture Petrofac competition was held during 2009 and received an enthusiastic response from employees, attracting almost 2,000 photographs.
The photographs of the 13 finalists feature on our 2010 calendar, with each finalist also receiving a digital SLR camera.
The winning entry was submitted by Hennie Bester, who said: Competitive events, whatever their format, certainly increase the levels of engagement and collaboration in all our teams even those not actively participating.
I look forward to taking part in next years competition.
Corporate social responsibility 62 63 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Corporate social responsibility In collaboration with our customer, we have also The office in Chennai is a great benefactor to local Community Petrofac opened two further schools in the western Sahara schools and orphanages.
With support from the For 2009, our community support continued to be employees Desert in Egypt.
Each school features a large company, employees have helped the community in Making focused on education in the communities close to have provided classroom for around 45 children aged 413 together many ways, including providing electrical equipment our operations.
This is an area where experience tells electrical with living accommodation for two resident teachers.
to a school and rice to a childrens home, renovating us we are able to make a significant and long-term equipment and This latest project, which is providing valuable a kitchen for a welfare trust and providing support impact which can make a demonstrable difference whiteboards to a real education to local Bedouin children, brings the total to victims of the floods.
schools, rice to number of such schools we have supported in the a childrens desert to four.
In Malaysia, our team operated a successful book home, air The educational initiatives we support are many and donation programme with Sekolah Kebangsaan Taman conditioning diverse, ranging from scholarships for individuals to difference.
units for a In 2008, a needs analysis with the local authorities Setiawangsa school in Kuala Lumpur, with many of the extensive financial support for entire schools.
The school library showed that children and teachers at schools in the books donated from London.
Local employees also examples you see here represent a small selection and support to In Salah region of Algeria were suffering from constant raised money to purchase air conditioning units for the of projects we have undertaken during 2009. victims of floods chalk dust created by the use of old-fashioned school library.
With our help, each classroom in all 38 North Africa local schools has now been equipped with a We also continued to operate a scholarship In Sudan we have completed the construction of 60 whiteboard amounting to 341 whiteboards in total.
programme alongside the Kyrgyz Petroleum Company non-formal schools in partnership with international in Kyrgyzstan.
With our help, eight students are now NGO, BRAC UK.
This project was established in 2008 Our community activities in Tunisia have included able to undertake full-time academic courses.
and the schools have now opened their doors to organising a series of regular visits to our facilities at around 1,800 children aged 814.
Chergui for primary school children.
This programme UK gives the children an early introduction to our industry Our teams in Woking have continued to support the and provides us with the opportunity to emphasise the educational charity Surrey SATRO Science and importance of safety and protection of the environment.
Technology Regional Organisation and 11 of our 60 engineers are now SATRO science ambassadors.
Each Middle East ambassador contributes two and a half days during the Operationally, we are very active in Syria with major year, usually at a local school.
Schools built projects at both Jihar and Ebla.
As the financial year in Sudan and closed, we were in the advanced stages of a process In Scotland, where we have long-established educating which we hope will lead to Petrofac providing funding relationships with local communities, we again supported 1,800 children for a specialist training centre.
This will underline our many initiatives.
These included a road safety scheme commitment to the health, safety and operational for school children as well as the establishment of a efficiency of the local workforce.
new partnership with Charleston Primary School.
Many children from Charleston will move on to join Kincorth In the United Arab Emirates, we continued to offer Academy, a secondary school which we have supported financial assistance to less-advantaged students for many years.
In common with their colleagues in wishing to attend the American University of Sharjah Woking, the Scotland team has been keen to encourage AUS, and were also proud to establish The Petrofac an interest in engineering.
During the year they offered Research Chair in renewable energy.
We provided a their time and practical advice to develop a local Dhs15 million endowed donation to fund the position branch of the Young Engineers club and also organised from which AUS will establish a progressive research a number of school visits to our facilities, so that programme in renewable energy, bringing together its youngsters could gain insight into the oil & gas industry.
We also made a Dhs1 million grant to the Higher Colleges of Technology HCT in Abu Community support US$ millions Dhabi to support the continued development of young Our support for local communities extends beyond UAE nationals and enhance HCTs programme offerings education.
During 2009, we continued to provide Donated to local schools to meet the needs of both students and industry.
assistance to a variety of charitable and sporting and funding for initiatives, further strengthening the bonds which exist the Petrofac Our community support in the UAE also extended between our operations and their local communities.
Research Chair beyond education last year, with many employees Full details of these initiatives can be found on our in renewable making significant contributions to relief funds for the website at www.
energy natural disasters in Indonesia, the Philippines and India.
Asia In India, both our key offices have long histories of supporting educational initiatives.
During the year, the Mumbai team continued to offer scholarship programmes at local schools and also funded a much-needed extension to a tribal school near Khopoli.
We also worked with the Arvind Ghanbhir secondary school on a book donation programme, which was run from our London office.
Governance 64 65 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Directors information Directors information 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1 Rodney Chase 4 Maroun Semaan 6 Keith Roberts 9 Rijnhard van Tets c a b d Non-executive Chairman Group Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Rodney Chase was appointed non-executive Chairman Maroun Semaan joined Petrofac in 1991 to establish Keith Roberts joined Petrofac in March 2002 as Chief Rijnhard van Tets was appointed a Nonexecutive of Petrofac in June 2005.
Rodney spent 38 years at BP Petrofac International.
From 1977 to 1991, Maroun held Financial Officer having spent most of his working life Director of Petrofac in 2007.
Rijnhard is currently plc, of which 11 were served on its board.
He was various project positions with Consolidated Contractors as an investment banker based in the City of London.
general partner of Laaken Asset Management NV.
He deputy group CEO on his retirement from the BP group International Co. CCC, based in the Middle East, After positions in commercial banking with Standard was an adviser to the managing board of ABN Amro in May 2003.
He also spent time as CEO of the where he was involved in the management of oil & gas Chartered Bank and then with County Bank, the between 2002 and 2007, having previously served as a exploration and production, and marketing and refining pipeline, process facilities and civil works construction merchant banking subsidiary of National Westminster member of ABN Amros managing board for 12 years.
He continues to serve as non-executive contracts in Oman and Bahrain.
He was appointed Bank, Keith moved into corporate finance with Rijnhard occupied a number of very senior executive deputy chairman of Tesco plc: non-executive director Chief Executive of Petrofac Engineering & Construction Hawkpoint Partners where he was a managing director positions at ABN AMRO, most latterly as chairman of of Computer Sciences Corporation: non-executive in April 2004.
In January 2009, Maroun was appointed and a member of the operating committee.
He has ABN AMROs Wholesale Clients and Investment director of Nalco Company and non-executive director Group Chief Operating Officer with overall responsibility previously served as a non-executive director of the Banking Group between 1996 and 2002.
He has previously held positions for Petrofacs Engineering & Construction, Engineering Peacock Group plc.
Age 53. currently serves as a non-executive chairman of the as a board member of BOC plc and Diageo plc.
& Construction Ventures, Engineering Services, boards of Arcadis NV: Euronext Amsterdam NV: Offshore Engineering & Operations and Training 7 Kjell Almskog Euronext NV and Equity Trust Holdings SARL and is a a c d 2 Ayman Asfari Services businesses.
Maroun currently serves as Non-executive Director non-executive director of IFF Europe: NYSE Euronext c Group Chief Executive a member of The Board of Trustees of The American Kjell Almskog was appointed to the Petrofac Board Inc: Stichting Administratiekantoor Bhrmann NV: and Ayman Asfari joined Petrofac in 1991 to establish University of Sharjah.
Maroun is also a Founding in March 2005.
Kjell has held a number of senior a number of charitable organisations.
Ayman has 30 years experience Member of the Board of Trustees of Arab Forum executive positions including 13 years at the in the oil & gas industry and served as Chief Executive for Environment and Development AFED.
Age 54. international ABB group most latterly as deputy The Board recommends that the following two Officer of Petrofac International until his appointment as group CEO and head of its oil, gas & petrochemicals individuals be appointed at the AGM subject to Group Chief Executive of Petrofac Limited in January 5 Bernard fide Combret division.
He was then chief executive of Kvaerner from shareholder approval.
Ayman previously worked as the managing Non-executive Director 1998 until its merger with Aker in 2001.
Kjell was director of a major civil and mechanical construction Bernard fide Combret was appointed to the Petrofac appointed non-executive chairman of Intex Resources Thomas Thune Andersen business based in Oman.
Ayman currently serves as Board in November 2003.
Bernard was deputy ASA, a Norwegian listed mining and exploration Proposed to be appointed as a Non-executive a member of The Board of Trustees of The American chairman of Totals executive committee until his company in November 2007.
He continues to serve as Director University of Beirut.
Following senior positions in both non-executive deputy chairman of Kverneland Group Having spent over 30 years with the A. P. Mller-Mrsk the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of ASA and as a senior adviser of the Taylor Group.
Age 69. group, Thomas Thune Andersen retired from the 3 Michael Press Finance, he spent 24 years with Elf and subsequently company in 2009.
Thomas held a number of very Senior Independent Director, Non-executive Total where he was CEO of refining marketing: CEO for 8 Amjad Bseisu senior positions at Mller-Mrsk most latterly as Chief a b c d Director gas, power, new energies: and CEO for trading and Chief Executive, Energy Developments Executive of Mrsks oil and gas division between Michael Press was appointed to the Petrofac Board in shipping.
He is currently non-executive chairman of Amjad Bseisu joined Petrofac in 1998 and founded 2004 and 2009.
He served both on the main board of April 2002, having previously held senior executive Coastal Energy in addition to serving as a nonthe Energy Developments business.
In 2007, Amjad Mrsk and its executive committee from 2005 to positions for the Standard Oil Company Inc and BP executive director of Winstar Resources Ltd and a rejoined the Petrofac Board having previously served 2009.
Thomas serves as a non-executive director of and as a main board director of Amerada Hess.
member of the international advisory board of Grupo for several years prior to the Companys admission to Scottish & Southern Energy plc.
Between 1997 and 2001, Michael held various posts at Santander.
He was appointed an independent director listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2005.
From KBC Advanced Technologies including non-executive of Toreador Resources Corporation, a US listed 1984 to 1998, Amjad worked for the Atlantic Richfield Stefano Cao director, executive chairman, and chief executive.
He has previously held Company ARCO, ultimately as head of International Proposed to be appointed as a Non-executive Michael is chairman of TWMA, an Aberdeen based positions as a board member of Renault VI, Marketing, Negotiations and Business Development Director global drilling waste management firm and continues Intercontinental Exchange, CEPSA and Banco Central and president of ARCO Petroleum Ventures and ARCO Stefano Cao has more than 32 years experience in the to serve as senior independent director of Chart Hispano.
Crude Trading, Inc. Amjad was a founding nonoil and gas industry.
He spent 24 years at Saipem Spa, Industries Inc. Age 62. executive director of Serica Energy plc and Stratic the international oil and gas services group, most Bernard will retire from the Board at the forthcoming Energy Corporation.
Age 46. latterly as Chief Operating Officer and then Chairman Michael will retire from the Board at the forthcoming AGM and will not seek reappointment.
Stefano left Saipem in 2000 and AGM and will not seek reappointment.
It is anticipated that Amjad will step down from the joined Eni where he served as Chief Operating Officer Board on 6 April 2010 subject to becoming Chief of the Exploration & Production Division from 2000 to Executive of EnQuest PLC and the successful listing 2008.
Today he is Chief Executive Officer of Sintonia of that company.
SA, a holding company owning infrastructure assets including toll roads, airports and telecoms.
He has previously served as an independent director of Telecom Italia SpA.
Age 58. a Member of the Audit Committee b Member of the Remuneration Committee c Member of the Nominations Committee d Member of the Risk Committee Governance 66 67 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Senior management team Senior management team 1 2 3 4 5 6 8 9 7 1 Robin Pinchbeck 4 Bill Dunnett 6 Paul Groves 8 Subramanian Sarma Group Director of Strategy and Corporate Managing Director, Offshore Engineering & Managing Director, Training Services Managing Director, Engineering & Construction Development Operations 7 Rob Jewkes 9 Rajesh Verma 2 Richard Milne 5 Gordon East Managing Director, Energy Developments Managing Director, Engineering Services Group Director of Legal and Commercial Affairs Managing Director, Production Solutions 3 Marwan Chedid Managing Director, Engineering & Construction Ventures Governance 68 68 69 P Pe et tr ro of fa ac A c An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt t Petrofac Annual report a an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 20 s 200 09 9 and accounts 2009 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report The Company is incorporated in Jersey, where there is no formal incorporated: and one meeting in Syria where the group has Code relating to corporate governance.
However, the Board significant business operations.
In addition, the Board held a recognises that it has a responsibility to ensure good governance number of telephone conference Board meetings at relatively of the Company in order to help it fulfil its obligations to all its short notice, which arose as a result of specific business, stakeholders, not just shareholders.
It is therefore strongly usually in relation to a particular commercial project between committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and scheduled Board meetings.
The agenda for each scheduled has decided to adhere, wherever possible, to the provisions of The Board meeting allows the Chairman and Non-executive Directors Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2008 the to meet without the executive Directors present.
In addition, Combined Code, in the same way as if the Company had been the Board attended a strategy and business planning day with incorporated in the United Kingdom.
Looking ahead, the Board members of senior management.
intends to adhere, wherever possible, to the UK Corporate Governance Code which will replace the current Combined Code Attendance by the Directors at the scheduled meetings of the in 2010.
The Company has prepared an additional report on its Board was as follows: corporate social responsibility pages 53 to 63, which sets out its Number of meetings 6 engagement with society in general.
This Report, however, together with the Nominations Committee Report, Audit Rodney Chase Committee Report, Risk Committee Report and Remuneration Non-executive Chairman 6 Committee Report, is the Companys formal report on its corporate Kjell Almskog governance framework and has been prepared by reference to the Non-executive Director 6 Combined Code.
The Directors consider that throughout 2009 and Bernard fide Combret up to the date hereof, the Company has fully complied with all Non-executive Director 6 provisions of the Combined Code.
Michael Press Senior Independent Director 6 The Combined Code has identified four subject areas, which Rijnhard van Tets underpin good corporate governance and these are: Non-executive Director 6 directors Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive 6 directors remuneration Maroun Semaan accountability and audit Group Chief Operating Officer 6 Amjad Bseisu relations with shareholders Chief Executive, Energy Developments 6 Directors Keith Roberts The Board Chief Financial Officer 6 The Board is responsible to its shareholders for the control and 1 Kjell Almskog will become Senior Independent Director following the leadership of the group and for safeguarding the Companys retirement of Michael Press at the 2010 AGM.
Nine Directors have served during the year and to date but it is anticipated that Amjad Bseisu will step down from the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Board in April 2010 subject to being appointed Chief Executive of The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are clearly EnQuest PLC and the successful listing of the shares of that separated and set out in writing.
The Chairman is responsible for company.
In addition, Bernard fide Combret and Michael Press will the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting be retiring from the Board at the 2010 AGM.
The Board intends to its agenda and for ensuring that there is effective communication propose Thomas Thune Andersen and Stefano Cao for election to with all shareholders.
The Chairman also facilitates the effective the Board by shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
Details of current and contribution of all Directors and ensures that there is a constructive proposed Directors skills and experience are contained in the relationship between the executive and Non-executive Directors.
Directors biographies on pages 64 and 65.
The role of the Group Chief Executive is to implement strategy by developing manageable goals and priorities: to provide leadership The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to itself for and motivation to the management teams running the groups decision, including, but not limited to, matters of a strategic nature: businesses: and to develop proposals for the Board to consider approval of the annual budget: approval of major acquisitions, in all areas reserved for its judgement.
investments and disposals: major changes to the groups capital structure: the preparation of financial statements: the Board balance and independence recommendation or declaration of dividends: the entry into The Board currently has nine members composed of the contracts which are deemed to be material strategically or by Chairman, four independent Non-executive Directors and four reason of size: succession planning and appointments to the executive Directors.
The Board believes that it contains an Board: senior executive remuneration: ensuring the maintenance appropriate balance of skills and experience at the same time as of a sound system of internal controls: reviewing its own and its being able to respond quickly to the needs of the business.
The Committees performance and reviewing the groups overall Board considers all four Non-executive Directors who served corporate governance arrangements.
during the year and Thomas Thune Andersen and Stefano Cao who will be proposed as Non-executive Directors at the 2010 AGM The Board met regularly during the year.
The Board met in person to be independent in character and judgement and is not aware of at six meetings, which had been scheduled well in advance.
In any relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or 2009, the Board held three such meetings in Continental Europe: could appear to affect the judgement of any of them.
The extensive one meeting in Sharjah, the United Arab Emirates, where the group knowledge and experience of the Non-executive Directors has its largest office: one meeting in Jersey where the Company is combined with the focus and experience of the Chairman and executive Directors enable the Board to lead and give direction to Governance 70 71 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued the group without any imbalance that may allow any individual or HSSEIA twice a year.
The Company is equally committed to Michael Press, the Senior Independent Director, led a separate systems encompass policies and procedures relating to all major group of individuals to dominate its decision making.
Any Director providing its Directors with training on technical and regulatory evaluation of the Chairman through a series of questionnaire-led areas of risk including matters relating to contract execution, health having a concern in this or any other regard may raise it with the matters and such matters are generally addressed in Committee interviews with other members of the Board and senior and safety: security: and the environment.
The Company has a Chairman or the Senior Independent Director.
During the year, formal presentations and tutorials were management before providing feedback to the Chairman in Group Head of HSSEIA who heads a team with responsibility for access to the advice and services of the Secretary to the Board, provided in Committee meetings on a number of subjects: a one-to-one appraisal.
Board evaluation will continue on an overseeing the development of appropriate HSSEIA management who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and accounting requirements in relation to hedge accounting: annual basis.
systems and ensuring compliance with them, across the group.
applicable rules and regulations are observed and for advising methodology for assessment of hydrocarbon reserves: Towards the end of 2009, the Group Head of HSSEIA appointed the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
The decommissioning: taxation: insurance: treasury: and the external Re-election of Directors a Head of Group Security, who has extensive security experience Directors are entitled to take independent professional advice, environment regarding remuneration.
As well as the formal All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association in the Middle East and other parts of the world.
In addition, after at the Companys expense, if required.
programme of training which takes place as part of Board and to submit themselves to shareholders for re-election by rotation at conducting a lengthy selection process, the group has recently Committee meetings, the Secretary to the Board is available at all least once every three years or if they have been appointed part appointed an environmental specialist who will provide renewed The Board is assisted by various Committees, principally the times to provide Directors with updates in relation to governance way through the year by the Board at the subsequent AGM.
impetus to the groups environmental programme.
For details Nominations, Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Reports matters and as a point of first contact should Directors have any Sufficient biographical information and other information including, about environmental progress, refer to page 56 of the Corporate for 2009 from each of these Committees are provided from pages other queries.
In 2009, the Secretary provided the Board with in the case of a Non-executive Director seeking re-election, a Social Responsibility Report.
73 to 86. briefings on Listing Rule changes, the Walker Report, the Financial statement as to his continued effectiveness and commitment is Reporting Councils FRC review of the Combined Code and most provided to enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
The Company has a Code of Business Conduct Code, which Appointments to the Board latterly the FRCs consultation on the provision of non-audit service amongst other matters, includes policies for the Company and its The Nominations Committee ensures a formal, rigorous and work by audit firms.
Notwithstanding that the Chairman formally Directors remuneration employees on health and safety: security: the environment: transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors.
In the requests each Director to consider whether or not he requires any While the Board is ultimately responsible for Directors conflicts of interest: and areas of legal compliance.
During the year, case of candidates for Non-executive Directorships, care is taken specific training on any aspect of the Companys activities on an remuneration, the Remuneration Committee, consisting solely management rolled out an e-learning programme on the Code to ascertain whether they will have sufficient time to fulfil their annual basis, any Director may request the Secretary to the Board of independent Non-executive Directors, is responsible for across the group on a prioritised basis.
By the end of January Board, and Committee responsibilities.
As part of this process, to arrange any individual training or professional development at determining the remuneration and conditions of employment of 2010, more than 4,000 employees had completed the e-learning candidates disclose all other time commitments and on any time if he feels that this would be helpful to him in discharging executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
programme including some 75% of employees in the Sharjah office appointment, undertake to inform the Chairman of any proposed his responsibilities.
Most importantly, the Company believes that it A Report on the Directors remuneration, including a more detailed as well as a significant proportion of employees based in the changes.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Nonpromotes an atmosphere such that Directors are actively description of the role and activities of the Remuneration Companys offices in Aberdeen, Woking, Algeria, Tunisia and India.
executive Directors are available from the Secretary to the Board encouraged to engage and ask questions.
Committee is set out on pages 76 to 86.
The Company intends that all employees will have completed the on request.
e-learning programme by the end of 2010 notwithstanding the In the event that the Board appoints a new Director, the Chairman Accountability and audit difficulties in making the programme available to employees based Information and professional development works with the individual and the Secretary to the Board to develop Internal control on site.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors are given a tailored induction programme to take account of the individuals The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the appropriate documentation in advance of Board meetings.
Arrangements are in place for Thomas Thune groups system of internal control, including financial, operational The group has strengthened the process whereby employees can agenda and appropriate supporting Board papers are generally Andersen and Stefano Cao to visit the groups UK offices and and compliance controls and systems for the identification and raise ethical concerns in confidence during the year.
Employees distributed by the Secretary to the Board a week in advance of Sharjah office where they will have the opportunity to be briefed management of risk.
The Audit Committee routinely meets with are able to contact anonymously a third-party organisation called each scheduled Board meeting and 24 hours in advance of a personally by each business managing director about his particular both the internal and external auditors and discusses matters of Expolink, 24 hours a day, 365 days per year, either by telephone or telephonic meeting called at short notice.
In addition, all Directors business and meet other members of senior management from internal control particularly in relation to financial control.
The Risk e-mail and report any matter in relation to an alleged breach of the are encouraged to make further enquiries as they feel appropriate both operational and functional disciplines.
Given that Thomas and Committee, a committee of the Board, complements the Audit Code.
Expolink contact both the Director of Legal and Commercial of the executive Directors or management team.
Stefano are probably less familiar with the regulatory and Committee by focusing in more detail on the groups operational Affairs and the Secretary to the Board with details of any alleged governance requirements associated with a UK listed company controls and risk management framework.
The Audit Committee, breach and one of them will ensure that an appropriate The Company as a matter of course provides regular training for its than a UK based Non-executive Director might be, particular care on behalf of the Board conducted a specific review of the internal investigation is conducted, the results of which are fed back to Directors on the groups business operations.
The Group Chief will be taken to ensure that they understand the governance control environment following the year end.
The groups system of Expolink which reports back to the individual concerned.
The Executive provides the Board with a formal report on the groups framework that the Company operates within.
A programme internal control can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, Secretary to the Board ensures that the Audit Committee is activities at each Board meeting.
In addition, the Board is provided covering their responsibilities and liabilities as Directors: the assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed periodically provided with a whistle blowing report which sets out with ad hoc presentations by operational management on a regular Companies Jersey Law 1991: features of the Companys Articles to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve a description of each matter raised and details of the outcome.
The basis and undertakes an annual site visit.
In 2009, the Managing of Association: the Companys Code of Business Conduct and business objectives.
However, the focus on risks and controls by Company conducted an employee survey in the Autumn of 2009 Director of the Offshore Engineering & Operations business gave Share Dealing Code: Listing and Disclosure and Transparency Rule these two Committees of the Board ensures a strong oversight PetroVoices to which some 55% of employees responded.
92% of a presentation and the Managing Director of Engineering & requirements: and Combined Code will be covered.
process for the full Board.
respondents said that they knew about the Companys Code and Construction provided the Board with an overview of the groups 55% said they would know how to make use of the whistle blowing Engineering & Construction activities in Syria.
The Board spent Performance evaluation The group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and facility.
The previous PetroVoices survey conducted in 2007 several days in Syria during which time it visited two Engineering & The Chairman in consultation with the other Directors considered managing significant risks faced by the group, which has been in showed that 81% of employees knew about the Code and that Construction projects.
Directors first visited the Jihar gas treatment how the Board might best evaluate its performance in 2009.
In place for the year under review and up to the date of this Annual 46% of employees knew how to use the whistle blowing facility.
plant before travelling to the Ebla site where they stayed overnight view of the fact that the Board had relied upon internal reviews Report and is in accordance with the Revised Turnbull guidance.
Whilst the Company appears to have made progress in raising and toured the Ebla gas treatment plant the following day.
The in 2007 and 2008, the Board decided that it would seek some awareness of the Code and Expolink facility, the e-learning Company believes that such presentations and site visits are external facilitation in 2009.
It considered that another internal The key elements which make up a robust system of internal programme together with a recently implemented group-wide essential in order to increase Directors knowledge and review conducted in the same manner as the previous two years control in a business may be characterised by the businesss induction programme should significantly increase employee understanding of the group not only in terms of its operations would be unlikely to provide the Board with any new insight into its control environment and its risk management and assurance familiarity over the forthcoming year.
but also its culture and people.
The Chairman and Group Chief role and any changes the Board might make in seeking to process.
A description of each of these elements for the group Executive have agreed a further programme of presentations discharge its responsibilities more effectively.
Having considered is given below.
The Company has a policy in relation to conflicts of interest.
by operational senior management to the Board in 2010 and are several third parties who might conduct an external review, the Employees should not engage in activities which conflict or might currently planning a visit to the groups operations in the Far East Chairman appointed ICSA Board Evaluation.
Representatives of Control environment be perceived to conflict with their duties and guidance is provided later in the year.
ICSA Board Evaluation are in the process of conducting face-toThe Board ensures that the group has a clear organisational on potential areas of conflict.
If an employee considers that he or face interviews with Directors after which they will observe a Board structure for the control and monitoring of its businesses, including she may have a potential conflict, he or she must refer the matter In addition to operational management presentations, the Board meeting in progress.
The ICSA will then present a written report to defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Each of to the Group Chief Executive for his consideration.
The Secretary receives a report from the Group Director of Legal and Commercial the Board and lead a discussion in relation to its findings and the groups businesses operates and maintains its own business to the Board maintains a register of all such issues raised including Affairs at each Board meeting and reports from the Group Head of recommendations at the Board meeting in May 2010. management system designed to ensure the application of sound whether or not the proposed activity was permitted.
In the event Health, Safety, Security, the Environment and Integrity Assurance processes of control to all projects and business activities: such Governance 72 73 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued that a Director considers that he may have a potential conflict, he Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and each share has one vote.
One shareholder has notified the Chairman conducted a review of possible search consultants refers the matter to the Audit Committee for its consideration and are disclosed on pages 34 to 37.
Company as at 23 February 2010 that it has an interest in 3% or before appointing Spencer Stuart to lead the search for a record is similarly added to the register.
In addition, a Director is more of the Company and is as follows: candidates.
A number of candidates were put forward for the Number of Percentage required under Jersey legislation to declare any interest or potential Assurances Nominations Committee consideration.
In due course, the ordinary of allotted interest that might materially conflict with the interests of the The Board receives assurances from the following internal and Committee recommended that the Board propose Thomas Thune shares share capital Company prior to any Board meeting and the Director would be external controls: Andersen and Stefano Cao for appointment by shareholders at the Legal & General Group Plc 13,782,232 3.99% excluded from any Board discussion or decision that related to 2010 AGM.
The Committee considers Thomas and Stefano to be the matter.
historical financial performance and revised forecasts for the excellent prospective members of the Board not only for their In addition to the above, Ayman Asfari and Maroun Semaan full year with significant variances are regularly reported by extensive experience of the oil & gas industry but also for their together with their respective close families held major Risk management management to the Board personal qualities and global outlook.
Further, the Committee is shareholdings, details of which are disclosed in the Remuneration The Board has ultimate responsibility for managing risk.
It therefore satisfied that both Thomas and Stefano have sufficient time to reports from the Audit Committee, which includes feedback Report on page 86. needs to ensure that the group defines its risk appetite: maintains devote to the Board.
Bernard and Michael will retire from the Board from the external and internal auditors: and the Risk Committee a sound system of risk management and internal controls: and at the conclusion of the AGM.
This Report was approved by the Board on 5 March 2010. satisfies itself that appropriate systems are in place to identify, the close involvement of the executive Directors in all aspects assess and manage key risks.
In 2007, the Board established a of the groups day-to-day operations, including regular During the year, the Committee received an update from the Rodney Chase Risk Committee whose membership is comprised of Non-executive meetings each month with each business units head of Group Head of Human Resources on managements developing Chairman of the Board Directors albeit the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Operating business programme in relation to succession planning and talent Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend meetings as a matter management throughout the group and will continue to be provided customer audits Nominations Committee Report of course together with the Head of Enterprise Risk Management.
with further updates on progress.
The Committee also considered Membership of the Nominations Committee during the year and The Risk Committee ensures that the groups risk appetite is reports and presentations to the Board by senior management its terms of reference and the proposed re-election of Rijnhard van to the date of this Report is as follows: considered, agreed and communicated via policies.
The Committee recommended to the Board copies of minutes from group Risk Review Committee meetings Committee recommended that the Board approve three policies: that Rijnhard should be proposed for re-election by the Companys Rodney Chase Chairman Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy: Legal and Contract shareholders having judged him to be highly effective as a Board Relations with shareholders Compliance Risk Policy: and Operations Risk Policy.
It is believed member and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Ayman Asfari The Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Head of that the three policies cover the full range of the groups operational Investor Relations have regular meetings with major shareholders Kjell Almskog and compliance risks at least in so far as they have been identified.
The Board intends that subject to shareholders electing Thomas and research analysts.
The Chairman advises major shareholders The Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy covers policy Thune Andersen and Stefano Cao at the 2010 AGM, the Michael Press annually, in writing, of his availability along with the Senior in relation to country risk: inflation risk: commodity risk: currency Committees membership will be as follows with effect from Independent Director should there be issues which the Bernard fide Combret risk and credit and counterparty risk.
The Legal and Contract 13 May 2010: shareholders wish to discuss.
Compliance Risk Policy covers ethical risk: contractual liability The Committees powers are conferred on it under the Companys risk and the risk of non-compliance with a countrys local laws Rodney Chase Chairman The Board receives regular feedback from analysts and major Articles of Association.
It has formal terms of reference, which have and regulations.
The Operations Risk Policy covers project shareholders, compiled by the Companys brokers and financial Ayman Asfari been drafted in accordance with the Combined Code, are performance risk: business continuity risk: leadership risk: PR consultants, in particular following presentations and meetings reviewed annually by the Committee and are available on the change risk: and health, safety, security and environment risks.
Kjell Almskog after the publication of financial results.
The Secretary to the Board acts as secretary Thomas Thune Andersen to the Committee.
Minutes for all meetings are circulated to all At least once a year, the Risk Committee intends to review each The principal method of communicating with the majority of Directors unless there is deemed to be a conflict of interest and policy at the same time as receiving a report on how the various Stefano Cao shareholders is via the Annual Report and financial statements supplemented by an oral report from the Committees Chairman risks covered by each policy are addressed within the business and the Companys website which contains details of financial Rijnhard van Tets at the next Board meeting.
The Committees principal roles and specifically in relation to standards: resources: training and presentations to analysts and other information about the group.
responsibilities include the following: communication: review and reporting: and audit.
The Risk All shareholders have the opportunity to attend the AGM.
All This Report was approved by the Board on 5 March 2010.
Committee therefore provides the Boards primary forum for Directors were present at the 2009 AGM and all current and consider and make recommendations to the Board on all new articulating the groups risk appetite and assuring itself that an proposed Directors intend to be present at the 2010 AGM to Rodney Chase appointments of Directors taking into account the overall size, appropriate and effective risk management framework is in place.
Details of the meeting are set out Committee Chairman balance and composition of the Board The Board is also made aware of material individual risks facing in the Notice of Meeting which is sent to shareholders, and which the group.
The Head of Enterprise Risk Management provides a consider and make recommendations to the Board in relation contains the text of resolutions to be proposed and explanatory written report in advance of each scheduled Board meeting giving to the composition of the Boards committees notes, where necessary.
Shareholders attending will be advised details of the most current material risks facing the group together of the number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution, in the consider succession planning with an explanation of any mitigating action.
In 2009, management categories for and against, together with the number of votes established an Enterprise Risk Management Committee which make recommendations to the Board concerning the withheld.
All resolutions will be voted on by taking a poll, the is chaired by the Group Chief Operating Officer.
The Committee reappointment of any Director following conclusion of his results of which will be announced to the London Stock Exchange meets twice a year for the purpose of ensuring that the groups specified term in office and published on the Companys website.
Each of the groups individual businesses operates and maintains a business management Meetings are held as deemed necessary by the Chairman and The Company is incorporated in Jersey, shareholders are required system incorporating policies and procedures which assist with the during the course of 2009, five meetings were held and all under the UK Listing Authority to notify the Company in the event businesss risk management.
In addition, each business is required members attended on each occasion.
The Board believes that as that they can exercise 5% or more of the Companys voting rights.
to produce a risk matrix which identifies the key business risks, the a general rule Non-executive Directors should serve two three-year If the Company were incorporated in the UK, shareholders would probability of those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur terms and that the Nominations Committee should seek to ensure be required to notify the Company in the event that they could and the actions being taken in order to manage and mitigate those that the Board is refreshed on a systematic and regular basis.
exercise 3% or more of the Companys voting rights.
The Head of Enterprise Risk Management has access to the Given that Bernard fide Combret and Michael Press would each of principle, the Company aims wherever possible to govern itself risk matrices for the businesses and furthermore receives regular have completed service on the Board for at least six years during as if it were incorporated in the UK rather than Jersey and for this reports from the management team for each business.
In addition, 2009, the Committee initiated a process at the start of the year to reason, adopted Articles of Association which currently require its a rigorous process exists for the consideration of risks associated identify candidates to join the Board within the next 18 months.
shareholders to notify the Company in the event that a shareholder with undertaking new business via individual business and group The Chairman of the Committee, with assistance from the Group acquires voting rights in 3% or more in the Companys share Risk Review Committees.
Head of Human Resources, led the search process in the first capital.
The Company currently has 345,629,656 shares in issue instance.
Having agreed a role and person specification, the Governance 74 75 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee Report Financial reporting which non-audit services require the approval of the Chairman of Risk Committee Report Membership of the Audit Committee during the year and to the The Committee reviewed the 2008 Annual Report and financial the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the groups non-audit Membership of the Risk Committee during the year and to the date date of this Report is as follows: statements and the 2009 Interim Report issued in September 2009 services policy at the end of the year.
In light of the Select Treasury of this Report is as follows: before recommending their publication to the Board.
As part of this Committees request to the FRC in October 2009 to review Rijnhard van Tets Chairman overall review, the Committee considered the draft preliminary whether or not there should be further restrictions on the provision Kjell Almskog Chairman announcements in respect of the Companys 2008 final and 2009 of non-audit services by audit firms, the Committee decided that it Kjell Almskog Bernard fide Combret interim results.
The Committee discussed with the Chief Financial would delay its formal review of the groups non-audit services Michael Press Officer and external auditors the significant accounting policies, policy until such time as the FRC has published its report on the Michael Press estimates and judgements in preparing the Companys 2008 matter.
For the time being, the groups non-audit services policy Rijnhard van Tets Both Rijnhard van Tets and Kjell Almskog have recent and Report and financial statements and 2009 Interim Report.
remains in line with current best corporate governance practice.
relevant financial experience and are deemed to have competence In addition, the Committee reviewed drafts of trading statements The policy automatically excludes the Companys auditors from The Committee has formal terms of reference, which are reviewed in accounting.
and interim management statements before recommending their undertaking certain types of work which might impair the auditors every two years by the Committee and are available on the publication to the Board.
The Chief Financial Officer is required to seek prior Companys website.
The Committee is supported by the Head The Committees powers are conferred to it under the Companys clearance from the Chairman of the Audit Committee where any of Enterprise Risk Management and the Secretary to the Board Articles of Association.
It has formal terms of reference, which have Internal controls and risk management systems individual fee in relation to non-audit services is in excess of acts as secretary to the Committee.
Minutes for all meetings are been drafted in accordance with the Combined Code, are The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the Companys US$200,000: the aggregate non-audit service fees for the year circulated to all Directors and supplemented by an oral report reviewed annually by the Committee and are available on the internal controls and it primarily discharges this responsibility are approaching 50% of the annual audit fee: or the auditor would from the Committees Chairman at the next Board meeting.
The Committees principal roles and through its engagement with the Risk Committee and the groups generally be excluded from providing the service but the Chief The Committee takes primary responsibility for: responsibilities include the following: internal and external auditors.
An annual internal audit plan, drawn Financial Officer believes that due to exceptional circumstances up on a risk-based approach, is presented to the Committee for its the service would be better performed by the Companys auditor reviewing proposed group risk policy and procedures and to monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements review and approval at the start of the financial year.
The Group rather than another audit firm.
Within these parameters, where recommending that they be adopted by the Board and announcements relating to its financial performance and Head of Internal Audit provides the Committee with an interim it is considered reasonable that the external auditors undertake review significant financial reporting judgements progress report part way through the year, as a result of which the non-audit services for sound commercial and practical reasons overseeing group operational risk management systems audit plan may be revised, before returning to the Committee with without inhibiting objectivity, then engagement is permitted.
Such including insurance management to keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys his final report for the year at the start of the subsequent year.
At services might include independent certification, reporting for FSA internal control and risk management systems identifying risks in relation to the enterprise as a whole and the same time as the final report for the previous year is presented, or UKLA purposes and tax advice.
The cost of services provided monitoring how they are managed to monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and an audit plan for the current year is proposed and so the ongoing by the external auditors during the year is detailed in note 4g to the review its material findings process of internal control review is continued.
In 2009, the internal financial statements.
Most of the cost of non-audit services was reviewing any external disclosures made by the group in audit department completed a total of 59 assignments across a associated with tax and assurance services where involvement by relation to its risk management to oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including broad cross-section of the groups activities.
the external auditors was considered appropriate and in the best agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement, commercial interests of the group.
The Committee met three times during the year and all members monitoring their independence, objectivity and effectiveness In addition, the Committee also received presentations or reports attended each meeting.
In 2009, the Committee reviewed a and ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to during the year in relation to the groups whistle blowing policy The Board intends that subject to shareholders electing Thomas Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy: Legal and Contract provide non-audit services is appropriately applied known as the speaking up policy by employees and its Thune Andersen at the 2010 AGM, the Committees membership Compliance Risk Policy: and Operations Risk Policy for the group effectiveness: and the groups use of an aircraft owned by will be as follows with effect from 13 May 2010: and having done so recommended that the Board adopt such The Committee is authorised to investigate any matters within its an offshore trust in which the Group Chief Executive has policies which the Board duly did.
The Head of Enterprise Risk terms of reference and may therefore seek any information it a beneficial interest.
Rijnhard van Tets Chairman Management provided a high level assessment of the groups requires from any employee and obtain, at the Companys compliance with the three policies at the end of 2009.
In 2010, expense, such professional advice as it sees fit in order to fulfil its Kjell Almskog Internal audit he will provide an update on each of the policies over the course duties.
However, the Committee has no executive function and its The Committee evaluated the performance of internal audit from Thomas Thune Andersen of the three meetings scheduled during the year.
The Committee primary role is to review and challenge, rather than assume the quality of reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit: received regular updates on the groups business continuity responsibility for any matters within its remit.
feedback from management and an assessment of work planned This Report was approved by the Board on 5 March 2010. planning in the event of an unforeseen disruption to part or all and undertaken.
The Internal Audit Department is currently staffed of the groups enterprise and noted that good progress has been Attendance at the Committee meetings is at the invitation of the by six individuals in addition to the Group Head of Internal Audit.
Rijnhard van Tets made in 2009 notwithstanding the groups continuing growth.
However, the Chief Financial Officer, The members of the department include accountants, IT Committee Chairman It is expected that full implementation of a business continuity Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit and the specialists and an oil & gas engineer.
The Committee will continue plan across the group will be achieved in the first half of 2010. external auditors generally attend some or all of the Committee to keep the resourcing of the department under review but The Companys Engineering Services office in Woking achieved meetings.
The Group Head of Internal Audit and the external currently believes it is adequate both in terms of headcount and accreditation to BS 25999 in 2009, which is a first in the oil & gas auditors have the right to speak directly to the Chairman of the skills set.
The Group Head of Insurance and the Group Head of Committee at any time and have the opportunity to meet the Treasury both provided briefings to the Risk Committee.
Committee without management present at least once a year.
External audit The Secretary to the Board acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the external The Board intends that subject to shareholders appointing Stefano auditors be reappointed following an assessment of the quality Cao at the 2010 AGM, the Committees membership will be as Minutes for all meetings of the Committee are circulated to all of service provided, including the qualifications of the external follows with effect from 13 May 2010: Directors and supplemented by an oral report from the auditors: the expertise and resources made available to the group: Committees Chairman at the next Board meeting, identifying any auditors independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Stefano Cao Chairman matters in respect of which action or improvement is required and The decision was based on consideration of reports issued by making recommendations where appropriate.
Kjell Almskog external auditors and feedback from the Chief Financial Officer and Group Financial Controller.
Rijnhard van Tets The Committee met six times during the year and all members attended on each occasion.
It considered the following matters: The Committee satisfied itself that the external auditors remain This Report was approved by the Board on 5 March 2010. independent having regard to the auditors procedures for maintaining and monitoring independence: the auditors policy for Kjell Almskog rotation of the lead partner and key audit personnel: and a policy, Committee Chairman which specifies areas of non-audit services that cannot be carried out by the external auditors and the financial thresholds above Governance 76 77 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Introduction Role of the Remuneration Committee In addition, the Committee met telephonically on one occasion to incentivised to deliver the groups strategic goals and thus deliver The Directors are not required under Jersey law to prepare a The Remuneration Committee is a formal Committee of the Board, approve awards under the Companys Performance Share Plan long-term shareholder value.
Remuneration Committee Report but in accordance with the and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
and Deferred Bonus Share Plan as part of its annual cycle of share principles of good corporate governance, as outlined in the Its remit is set out in terms of reference formally adopted by the awards due to a prior commitment.
Details of these schemes are The Committee intended to review in 2008 whether the current Combined Code, have chosen to do so.
This Report has been Board, which were last reviewed in December 2009.
A copy of provided on pages 80 to 82. arrangements would allow the Company to deliver its stated prepared by the Remuneration Committee as if the Company was the terms of reference is available on the Companys website.
However, due to the wider economic required to comply with both Schedule 8 to The Large and MediumThe primary purposes of the Remuneration Committee are set In addition to its routine business, the Committee also undertook environment which prevailed at the end of 2008, the Committee sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations out in its terms of reference and are to: a major review of executive Director and senior management delayed its review of the remuneration policy until 2009.
2008 of the United Kingdom and relevant Listing Rules of the incentive arrangements during 2009 and the conclusions from this Financial Services Authority and has been approved by the Board.
recommend to the Board the broad policy in respect of senior review are outlined below.
In 2009, the Committee conducted a review of the remuneration management remuneration arrangements currently in place, drawing on independent advice This Report sets out the remuneration policy and principles under Good governance from Deloitte LLP.
ensure that the levels of remuneration are appropriate in order which the Directors and senior managers are remunerated, and The Board and the Committee consider that throughout 2009 and to encourage enhanced performance details the remuneration and share interests of each Director for up to the date of this Report the Company has complied with the The review highlighted that remuneration in Petrofac has been the year ended 31 December 2009. approve the design and set the targets for any  of the Combined Code relating to Directors remuneration.
uncompetitive at executive director level for a significant period of related pay scheme time.
This has been as a result of both the conservative practice to As required by the Remuneration Report Regulations, shareholders Remuneration policy and practice date in terms of both basic salary levels and incentive opportunity, review the design of all share incentive plans before approval will be invited to approve this Report at the Annual General Non-executive Directors and the significant growth in the Company since IPO.
by the Board and shareholders, to monitor the application of Meeting.
The vote on the resolution will have advisory status only, The Board, with the assistance of independent professional the rules of such schemes and the overall aggregate amount will be in respect of remuneration policy and overall remuneration advice, determines the fees of the independent Non-executive To some extent, this has been possible given that most executive of such awards packages and will not be specific to individual levels of Directors.
The Board reviews Non-executive Director fees annually.
Directors and members of senior management are significant remuneration.
The members of the Remuneration Committee will set the remuneration of all executive Directors, members of When deciding an appropriate fee level for each independent shareholders in the Company following the IPO.
However, as the be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer senior management and the Chairman including annual cash Non-executive Director, the Board takes into account the level of business matures, it is becoming more important to be able to shareholders questions about the Directors remuneration.
bonus and share incentive payments fees generally paid to Non-executive Directors serving on boards recruit new senior executive talent, but also increasingly of similarly sized companies listed in the United Kingdom and inappropriate to pay our senior leaders at levels which are wholly The sections of this Report dealing with Directors emoluments During 2009, the Group Chief Executive, Ayman Asfari, attended further considers the responsibility and time commitment required out of line with the rate for the job.
and share interests have been audited pages 84 to 86 by the meetings at the invitation of the Chairman in order to provide of each individual.
advice on setting remuneration for other executive Directors and The Committee has reiterated its preference to provide significant members of senior management.
He attended no part of a meeting Executive Directors and members of senior management emphasis on the performance-related elements of pay.
Therefore, Information not subject to audit at which his own remuneration was being discussed.
The Committee aims to establish a level of remuneration which is the Committee has decided that: Composition of the Committee sufficient to attract, retain and motivate executive Directors and key Membership of the Remuneration Committee during the year and Richard Milne, the Group Director of Legal and Commercial Affairs executives of the calibre required to achieve the groups objectives: subject to shareholder approval at the 2010 AGM, the to the date of this Report is as follows: and Carol Arrowsmith of Deloitte LLP each attended one meeting and which furthermore, reflects the size and complexity of the maximum annual award under the PSP should be increased during the year.
The Director of Legal and Commercial Affairs groups business together with an executives individual to 200% of basic salary or 300% of basic salary in exceptional Bernard fide Combret Chairman attended a meeting at the start of the year in order to provide contribution and geographical location.
circumstances with immediate effect advice in relation to the matters being discussed in particular the Michael Press the maximum annual cash bonus will be increased to 200% groups share incentive schemes.
Geoffrey Tranfield, the Group The Committee believes that the most appropriate pay of basic salary with effect from the 2010 bonus year Rijnhard van Tets Head of Human Resources attended all meetings to provide comparators for the executive Directors and members of senior context to the Remuneration Committee in relation to matters management are: This means that if an executive Director were to receive a maximum Given their diverse backgrounds and experience, the Board being discussed.
Carol Arrowsmith attended a meeting at the end cash bonus and maximum PSP award equal to 200% of basic believes that the current Committee members provide a suitably of the year in order to provide advice in relation to the revised PSP a select group of international and UK oil & gas services salary, his fixed remuneration excluding cash allowances benefits balanced perspective on executive remuneration matters.
The Secretary to the Board acts as companies for the Group Chief Executive and certain would be equal to one-fifth of his overall remuneration whilst the the Directors who served during the year had or has any personal secretary to the Committee and therefore attended all meetings.
operational executives to the extent that data in relation remaining four-fifths of his overall remuneration would be variable interest in the matters to be decided other than as shareholders of to such comparator companies is publicly available remuneration.
the Company, any potential conflict of interest arising out of The Committee appointed Deloitte LLP to provide independent the FTSE 350 for certain functional executives cross-directorships or any day-to-day involvement in the advice on remuneration matters during the year.
In 2009, Deloitte Previously the weighting between basic salaries, annual bonus and management of the groups business activities.
LLP separately provided the Company with access to an industry PSP had been broadly equal i. e. one-third each.
However, it also uses remuneration in UK companies of a similar research database, but did not provide any other nonsize and complexity as a reference point when considering As previously reported in the Corporate Governance Report, remuneration related advice to the Company.
The Committee awarded modest basic salary increases of 5% to executive Director and senior management remuneration.
Bernard fide Combret and Michael Press will be stepping down its executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2010.
In making from the Board at the 2010 AGM.
The Board intends that subject Minutes of the meetings of the Committee are circulated to all its decision, the Committee took account of current shareholder Proposed changes to executive Director remuneration to shareholders appointing Thomas Thune Andersen and Stefano Directors unless any Director is the subject of debate by the views on salary increases in the external environment.
In 2007, the Committee agreed that its remuneration policy for Cao at the 2010 AGM, the Committees membership will be as Committee, in which case the minutes will not be sent to him.
The executive Directors and members of senior management going follows with effect from 13 May 2010: Chairman supplements the formal circulation of the minutes by a Nevertheless, the Committee recognises that the revised basic forward would be as follows: verbal update from the Committee Chairman at the Board meeting salary levels continue to be below lower quartile compared to UK Thomas Thune Andersen Chairman following a Committee meeting.
companies of similar size and complexity and below industry basic salaries would be median or below against a relevant benchmarks.
This has a significant impact on total remuneration Kjell Almskog benchmarking group see above : and Activities of the Remuneration Committee which remains very conservative even after the changes to Stefano Cao The Committee met four times in the year and reports herewith its the variable elements of remuneration would be structured so that performance-related pay outlined above.
Attendance at the meetings during the year was individuals can achieve total remuneration that is upper quartile as follows: subject to achievement of challenging performance standards The Committee therefore intends to review basic salaries again during the course of 2010.
No significant changes to basic Number of meetings 4 The Committee believes that such a remuneration policy which salaries will be implemented without dialogue with the Companys sets the fixed elements at median or below and provides incentives major shareholders.
Bernard fide Combret capable of delivering upper quartile pay for delivery of superior Chairman 4 performance is the most effective way in which to ensure that Michael Press 4 executive Directors and members of senior management are Rijnhard van Tets 4 Governance 78 79 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued The following table summarises the proposed changes to Petrofacs remuneration policy and more particularly to Petrofacs individual Individual elements of remuneration Basic salary, cash allowances and non-cash benefits remuneration elements.
The balance between the fixed and variable elements of Basic salary remuneration varies depending on performance.
The chart Ordinarily, the Committee determines an executive Directors basic below shows the new anticipated balance between fixed and salary at the beginning of each year and any change is applied with Current policy Proposed changes variable pay following the changes to variable pay outlined above.
Basic salary Role and contribution market median or below.
No change to overall policy remains market median or below.
Fixed variable pay mix At the time of the original listing of the Company, the Committee However, 2009 basic salaries are below lower quartile Composition of total remuneration package from set salary levels appreciably below the prevailing rate.
compared to UK companies of similar size and complexity Increases for executive Directors of 5% with effect from 2010 at maximum performance and below industry benchmarks.
Basic salary levels will be reviewed further in 2010.
Since the Company has grown significantly since IPO, it is currently recognised that basic salaries and pension arrangements are Cash Market standard for role and geographic location.
No change to overall policy.
Due to the prevailing 20% allowances, economic conditions at the beginning of 2009, the Committee Current levels are below median.
Increase of either 10,000 or 20,000 to cash allowance Fixed non-cash did not award significant salary increases to executive Directors, for UK Directors with effect from 1 January 2010.
Maroun benefits and None of the executive Directors is eligible to receive pension keeping increases of between 36% in line with nearly all other Semaan also received an increase to his allowance of 80% pension contributions from the Company.
The one exception to this was Maroun Variable Semaan who received a 12.5% increase to reflect his promotion Cash allowances to be reviewed later in 2010. to Group Chief Operating Officer with effect from 1 January 2009.
Annual cash Maximum of 100% of basic salary or 150% for outstanding Maximum of 200% of basic salary for outstanding As outlined on page 77, the Committee awarded modest basic bonus performance.
performance with effect from the 2010 bonus year i. e. salary increases of 5% to its executive Directors with effect from payments to be made in March 2011.
Award subject to achievement of financial, safety and 1 January 2010.
Changes to basic salaries are as follows: personal performance targets over the relevant financial year.
Bonuses will continue to be determined based on Basic salary achievement of financial, safety and personal performance 2009 with effect from targets over the relevant financial year.
basic salary 1 January 2010 Ayman Asfari 462,000 485,000 Performance Maximum grant level of 100% of basic salary or 150% in Maximum grant level proposed to increase to 200% of basic Maroun Semaan US$450,000 US$472,500 Share Plan exceptional circumstances.
salary 300% in exceptional circumstances for awards made Amjad Bseisu 275,000 289,000 PSP in 2010 onwards.
Amendments to current plan to be submitted 50% of awards are subject to total shareholder return TSR for shareholder approval at the 2010 AGM see pages 80 and Keith Roberts 278,000 292,000 relative to an international peer group on an Index TSR basis: 81 for further details.
0% vesting below median Cash allowances No significant change to TSR performance condition for 30% vesting at median 2010 awards.
In addition to basic salary and non-cash benefits, UK resident executive Directors receive a cash allowance in place of benefits 1 00% vesting for out-performance of the median by 25% Changes to EPS performance targets: including, but not limited to, car allowances and pension 50% of awards are subject to an achievement of compound 0% vesting for 10% growth p. a. contributions.
None of the Directors is eligible to receive pension annual growth in Earnings Per Share EPS : contributions from the Company.
In 2009, Ayman Asfari received a cash allowance of 40,000 whilst 30% vesting for 20% growth p. a. the other UK-based executive Directors received 30,000.
These 1 00% vesting for 25% growth p. a. amounts were unchanged from 2008.
In 2010, all executive Directors will receive cash allowances of 50,000.
The Committee has made these small adjustments to cash allowances to greater align the quantum with practice in the wider market.
A more detailed review of pension and benefits will be undertaken in 2010, and a more meaningful pension supplement may be implemented.
The Company pays a cash allowance in respect of housing and transport to Maroun Semaan, in line with local market practice.
In 2009, Maroun Semaan received a cash allowance of US$180,000 for the year.
In line with the increases for the UK-based executive Directors, Maroun Semaan will receive cash allowances of US$220,000 in 2010.
In addition to basic salary, Maroun Semaan, as a UAE resident executive Director, is required by local statute to receive a cash sum called an end of service indemnity from his employer on the termination of his employment within the UAE.
Accordingly, the Company accrues an amount each year.
Governance 80 81 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Non-cash benefits Share incentive schemes The Committee believes that TSR remains the best measure of the EPS element 50% of award All executive Directors receive certain benefits-in-kind.
UK resident Performance Share Plan PSP Companys ultimate delivery of shareholder returns and that EPS is EPS is the earnings which excludes dividends, in pence, executive Directors currently receive private health insurance, life Executive Directors and a restricted number of other members the internal financial measure that is most closely linked to value attributable to one ordinary share.
The Companys EPS assurance and long-term disability insurance.
Maroun Semaan, of senior management may receive performance-related share creation in an oil & gas services business.
performance over a three-year period is calculated and vesting who is resident in the UAE, receives similar benefits as well as awards on an annual basis.
Participants are granted contingent is in line with the vesting schedule attached to a particular award.
other benefits typical for expatriate senior executives such as awards to receive ordinary shares in the Company which will TSR element 50% of award education and return flights to his permanent home.
in normal circumstances vest after three years subject to the For the 2010 PSP grant, the TSR performance measure and The vesting schedule attached to awards in 2009 and prior years continued employment of the participant and to the extent that accompanying vesting schedule will remain the same as is as shown in the following table.
Annual cash bonus payments performance conditions have been satisfied.
In January of each year, the Committee considers whether or not 2006 to 2009 awards to award each executive Director an annual cash bonus for the The performance period under the PSP is three years, as this is TSR is the percentage return to a purchaser of an ordinary share EPS compound annual growth Percentage of EPS previous year.
In its deliberations, the Committee considers two considered to be an appropriate long-term time horizon for both in the Company arising from share price appreciation and over three year period element of award vesting principal elements in determining a directors cash bonus: performance measurement and retention.
reinvestment of dividends over a given period.
The TSR of the 15% or less 0% Company is measured and then compared against the median first, the extent to which the groups financial performance, Under the existing PSP, the maximum award level in any financial TSR of an index of a number of international peer companies.
More than 15% but less than 20% Straight-line vesting and, as appropriate, the business division for which the year is 100% of basic annual salary or, in circumstances which the Details of the index constituents are provided below.
between 0% and 30% individual director is primarily responsible, have achieved Committee deems to be exceptional, 150% of basic annual salary.
20% 30% annually established budgets and targets Vesting is in line with the following scale: More than 20% but less than 25% Straight-line vesting As part of the remuneration review carried out during 2009, the between 30% and 100% second, the extent to which the individual has met personal TSR relative to un-weighted Percentage of TSR levels of award under the PSP were considered in the context of objectives, which are agreed at the start of each year in index of comparator group element of award vesting 25% or more 100% the total remuneration package.
The Committee was of the opinion question and which are established with the aim of achieving Less than index median 0% that in order to recognise and reward the delivery of outstanding the groups business strategy.
Each executive Directors The Committee reviewed the EPS targets for the 2010 PSP business performance, it would be appropriate to increase Equal to index median 30% personal objectives include health and safety targets.
In doing so, it gave consideration to internal growth performance-related incentives, particularly those measured over More than index median by up to 25% Straight-line vesting addition, some executive Directors have additional targets projections, market consensus figures and general external the longer-term.
between 30% and 100% in relation to succession planning: risk management and conditions.
The EPS targets for the 2010 PSP awards have More than index median by 25% or more 100% the development and implementation of the groups social, been reduced accordingly.
Therefore, in light of this, the Committee has decided to amend environmental and ethical programme.
In this way, the 1 F or awards granted from 2006 to 2009, it was necessary to achieve EPS the rules of the PSP and submit this for shareholder approval at growth over the period of at least Retail Price Index plus 3% over the threeRemuneration Committee considers that it has in place However, the Committee considers the revised EPS targets to be the 2010 AGM.
This is to enable maximum PSP award levels to be year vesting period.
From 2010 onwards, vesting of the TSR element is an incentive structure for members of senior management extremely stretching.
Achieving 20% per annum EPS growth would 200% of salary, or 300% of salary in exceptional circumstances subject to the achievement of strong underlying financial performance which promotes responsible behaviour of Petrofac.
represent exceptional performance in current market conditions, such as recruitment.
2 In 2006, the companies from which the comparator index is composed and given exceptional growth to date.
For 2009, in line with previous practice, the Committee set the were as follows: Abbot Group PLC: Aker Kvaerner ASA: AMEC PLC: It is proposed that these new limits will also apply to the 2010 Helix Energy Solutions Group, Inc formerly Cal Dive International Inc : maximum bonus potential at 100% of basic annual salary for 2010 awards awards, and these awards will be made immediately following Chicago Bridge & Iron Co NV: Entrepose Contracting: Expro International achievement of corporate and personal targets but retained the the 2010 AGM.
Group PLC: Halliburton Co: JGC Corp: Saipem SpA: Schlumberger ability to increase this to 150% of basic annual salary if outstanding EPS compound annual growth Percentage of EPS Limited: SNC-Lavalin Group Inc: Technip SA: Wood Group John plc: over three-year period element of award vesting performance were to be achieved.
Fluor Corporation: Foster Wheeler Limited: and WorleyParsons Limited.
It is proposed that award levels of 200% of salary will be made For grants made in 2007 and 2008, the comparator index included the 10% or less 0% to all executive Directors in 2010, except Maroun Semaan who above listed companies and in addition, Tecnicas Reunidas SA.
For the In respect of 2009, the Committee awarded cash bonus awards More than 10% but less than 15% Straight-line vesting will receive an exceptional PSP award of 225% of salary due to 2009 grant, the 2008 comparator group was used, excluding Abbot equal to 150% of salary to Ayman Asfari and Maroun Semaan, in Group PLC and Expro International Group PLC.
For the 2010 grant, between 0% and 30% his outstanding contribution to the Groups extremely strong recognition not only of the groups outstanding financial results Helix Energy Solutions will be replaced by Maire Tecnimont S. p. A. performance in 2009.
for 2009 but also their respective personal performances.
Keith More than 15% but less than 20% Straight-line vesting 3 The Committee is authorised under the rules of the PSP to make Roberts and Amjad Bseisu were each awarded cash bonus The Committee believes that PSP performance conditions should retrospective adjustment s to the comparator index for any year of award between 30% and 100% awards equal to 100% of their respective basic salaries.
strike a balance between achieving alignment with ultimate in the event that one or more of the constituent companies are subject 20% or more 100% to any of the following: fide-listing: merger: acquisition or other such event.
shareholder returns and reward for delivery of strong underlying The following table sets out the annual bonus awards made to In 2008, Abbot Group PLC and Expro International Group PLC ceased to performance, the latter being more directly under the control of exist as independent companies.
The Committee therefore decided that Other senior management, management and executive Directors for 2009 performance.
these two entities would be removed from the comparator index for 2006, all-employee schemes 2007 and 2008 awards with effect from the respective months in which Annual bonus Approximate As part of its oversight role, the Committee has considered the they ceased to be independent companies.
Vesting of PSP grants to date are made subject to two in respect of 2009 % of salary following three schemes.
4 It is assumed that 100 is notionally invested at the start of the performance measures calculated over the three years following Ayman Asfari 700,000 150% performance period equally amongst all the companies making up the the grant of the award: TSR index.
At the end of the vesting period, the index will represent the Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP Maroun Semaan US$675,000 150% value of what the initial notional investment of 100 would have returned Under the DBSP, selected members of management are invited, or Amjad Bseisu 275,000 100% i Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to an index of a over the period.
This will be representative of the average return made by in some cases required, to defer a proportion of their annual cash the Companys competitors.
This is then compared to the return by an Keith Roberts 278,000 100% comparator group of UK and international companies for 50% bonus into Company shares.
Under the plan, the shares which are equivalent notional investment of 100 in Petrofac over the same period.
of the award: and acquired with a participants cash bonus are called Invested The Committee proposes to increase the maximum cash bonus Shares.
Following such an investment, the Company will generally ii Earnings per Share EPS growth relative to predefined targets that may be awarded to executive Directors to 200% of basic grant the participant an additional award over a number of shares for 50% of the award.
salary with effect from the 2010 performance year, in order to being a specified ratio to the number of his or her invested shares further incentivise exceptional performance.
Bonuses will continue and these awards are called Matching Shares.
To date, Matching to be determined based on achievement of financial, safety and Shares have been awarded to participants on the basis of a 1:1 personal performance targets over the relevant financial year.
ratio, the sole exceptions to this being two awards made in 2006 to an executive Director and senior executive, respectively: in these particular cases, it was felt to be inappropriate to grant any Matching Shares.
Governance 82 83 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Subject to a participants continued employment at the time of Funding policy in relation to share incentive plans Executive Directors service contracts vesting, invested and matching share awards may either vest 100% In 2007, the Board approved a funding policy in relation to the Each of the executive Directors has a 12-month rolling service contract with the Company and is contractually restricted to a termination on the third anniversary of grant: or alternatively, vest one-third on Companys employee benefit trust, which holds shares to be used payment equal to 12 months salary and benefits.
Further, each executive Director is subject to re-election by shareholders the first anniversary of grant, one-third on the second anniversary to satisfy awards under the Companys DBSP, PSP and RSP.
The at least every three years.
None of the executive Directors is currently subject to a contractual retirement date.
Details of the directors of grant and the final third on the third anniversary of grant.
The Company reviews its contingent obligations under the above listed service contracts are disclosed in the table below: Remuneration Committee uses its discretion to determine whether share incentive schemes on a quarterly basis with a view to Number of months notice or not a participant should be subject to either three-year cliff or ensuring that the employee benefit trust should purchase under Name of executive Director Date of service contract and date first appointed Last re-elected Next due for re-election Company Director annual vesting or a mixture thereof but in doing so, takes a loan arrangement with the group and hold shares, sufficient to managements recommendations into consideration.
cover between 80% to 100% of its maximum liability at any time Ayman Asfari 13 September 2005 11 January 2002 2008 AGM 2011 AGM 12 12 under the three schemes.
Maroun Semaan 13 September 2005 11 January 2002 2009 AGM 2012 AGM 12 12 In 2007, the Remuneration Committee decided that neither Amjad Bseisu 13 September 2005 11 May 2007 2009 AGM n a 12 12 executive Directors nor the most senior members of management Performance graph Keith Roberts 13 September 2005 6 April 2002 2008 AGM 2011 AGM 12 12 should participate in the scheme as there are no performance The Companys Total Shareholder Return is defined as the 1 Amjad Bseisu will be stepping down from the Board subject to the successful admission to listing of EnQuest PLC.
conditions attached to such awards.
If executive Directors or Companys share price growth plus any dividends used to acquire members of the groups most senior management are considered further shares in Petrofac.
For shareholders information, the Executive Directors are entitled to accept up to one Non-executive Directorship outside and unconnected to the group provided prior for DBSP participation in future years, the Company undertakes Companys TSR performance since the Company was admitted permission is sought from the Board.
Any fees earned from such an appointment are retained by the director.
No executive Director not to make matching awards, unless such awards are subject to to listing on the London Stock Exchange in October 2005 is shown currently holds any such external directorships.
suitably stretching performance conditions and a deferral period of on the graph below compared with the performance achieved by at least three years.
the FTSE 100 Index and the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment Non-executive Directors trusts.
The Committee believes that due to Petrofac rejoining the Details of current individual non-executive Directors contracts for services are given in the table below.
These Directors are not part of Restricted Share Plan RSP FTSE 100 Index in March 2009, both of these indices are useful to any pension, bonus or share incentive scheme of the Company or group.
Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years Under the RSP, selected employees are made grants of shares on allow a meaningful assessment of the Companys performance and are typically expected to serve two three-year terms.
an ad hoc basis throughout the year.
The Committee intends that during this period.
the scheme is used primarily, but not exclusively, to make awards None of the Non-executive Directors has a service contract and none is entitled to compensation on leaving the Board save that, if 600 to individuals who join the group part way through the year, having requested to resign, the Chairman and each Non-executive Director is entitled to receive prior notice or fees in lieu of notice as in the left accrued benefits with a previous employer.
periodically monitors the level of awards.
Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the scheme.
400 Date of latest letter of appointment General meeting at Required notice from Name of Director and date first appointed which last re-elected Next due for re-election Company in months The Petrofac approved Share Incentive Plan SIP 300 Rodney Chase 13 September 2005 21 June 2005 2008 AGM 2011 AGM 3 Under the SIP, all UK employees, including UK resident directors, Kjell Almskog 13 September 2005 23 March 2005 2009 AGM 2012 AGM 3 may invest up to 1,500 per tax year of gross salary or, if less, 200 10% of salary to purchase ordinary shares.
There is no holding Bernard fide Combret 13 September 2005 19 November 2003 2007 AGM n a 3 100 period for these shares.
Michael Press 13 September 2005 30 April 2002 2007 AGM n a 3 Rijnhard van Tets 2 February 2007 11 May 2007 2007 AGM 2010 AGM 3 0 Dividends and voting rights in respect of shares awarded Oct Feb Jun Oct Feb Jun Oct Feb Jun Oct Feb Jun Oct Dec 1 Bernard fide Combret and Michael Press will be stepping down from the Board after the 2010 AGM and as such will not be offering themselves for re-election.
under the groups share incentive schemes 05 06 06 06 07 07 07 08 08 08 09 09 09 09 Participants in the PSP, DBSP and RSP have no dividend or voting With effect from 1 January 2010, with the exception of the Chairman, Non-executive Directors will be paid a basic annual fee of 55,000 Petrofac Source: Datastream rights in respect of their respective awards until such time as their FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts for their role on the Board 2009: 47,000 and further annual fees of 12,000 per chairmanship of a committee 2009: 8,000, and awards vest.
However, when the Company pays a dividend, the FTSE 100 12,000 for acting as the senior independent director 2009: 8,000.
The Board as a whole is responsible for deciding Non-executive number of shares comprised in an award will be increased by the Directors fees unless such fees exceed 500,000 in aggregate, in which case shareholder approval in general meeting would be sought.
number of shares which could have been acquired with the amount of dividend received had the participant been the owner of The remuneration of the Chairman of the Board is set by the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairmans fee is all inclusive and is the award shares.
The vesting of the extra shares will be subject to currently 100,000 per year, having last been considered by the Remuneration Committee in 2006.
However, it is proposed to increase the same performance conditions as the original award shares.
the Chairmans fee to 120,000 with effect from 21 June 2010.
Participants in the SIP receive dividends in respect of their shares like any other shareholder.
The trustee invites participants prior to a general meeting to indicate how he or she wishes the trustee to vote in respect of his or her shares on any resolution s to be put to shareholders in general meeting.
TSR rebased to 100 on listing date Governance 84 85 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Audited information Awards of shares under the PSP Amount of each Directors emoluments in the relevant financial year Awards of shares during the year to executive Directors under the PSP are disclosed in the table below: The remuneration of each Director in respect of 2009 with 2008 comparison comprised: % of Number of Shares granted Number of basic salary shares at in year Dividend shares at Date Salaries Cash 2009 2008 Director and in year 31 December under annual shares granted Lapsed Vested 31 December upon which Market price & fees allowances Benefits Cash bonus total total 1 1 2 1 1 2 date of grant of grant 2008 award cycle in the year in year in year 2009 shares vest on date of grant US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Ayman Asfari Executive Directors 3 3 24 April 2006 71.4 72,894 72,894 Nil 24 April 2009 353p Ayman Asfari 722 63 44 1,136 1,965 1,794 3 19 March 2007 100.0 93,235 2,436 95,671 19 March 2010 415p Maroun Semaan 450 217 52 675 1,394 1,189 4 19 March 2008 122.7 101,383 2,649 104,032 19 March 2011 522p Keith Roberts 435 47 1 451 934 1,052 4 19 March 2009 130.9 113,572 2,967 116,539 19 March 2012 545p Non-executive Directors Maroun Semaan Rodney Chase 158 158 188 3 24 April 2006 70.0 38,877 38,877 Nil 24 April 2009 353p Kjell Almskog 87 87 95 3 19 March 2007 100.0 44,053 1,151 45,204 19 March 2010 415p Bernard fide Combret 87 87 95 4 19 March 2008 123.7 46,534 1,216 47,750 19 March 2011 522p Michael Press 87 87 82 4 19 March 2009 122.2 71,402 1,865 73,267 19 March 2012 545p Rijnhard van Tets 87 87 95 Amjad Bseisu 2,543 374 98 2,708 5,723 5,589 3 24 April 2006 72.8 46,167 46,167 Nil 24 April 2009 353p 1 Payment in lieu of pension allowance and other benefits for UK resident Directors and end of service indemnity and various allowances for the UAE resident director.
None of the Directors are eligible to receive pension contributions from the Company.
3 19 March 2007 100.0 54,386 1,421 55,807 19 March 2010 415p 2 Ayman Asfaris benefits primarily relate to the employment of a personal assistant who spends part of her time in the administration of his philanthropic work: 4 19 March 2008 92.3 45,059 1,177 46,236 19 March 2011 522p and Maroun Semaan receives, inter alia, benefits in relation to his childrens education and return flights to his permanent home.
Amounts have been translated to US Dollars based on the prevailing rate at the date of payment or award with the exception of the bonus amounts, which have been translated using the closing rate for the year.
The performance conditions under which these awards would vest in full are explained on pages 80 and 81.
2 Dividends awarded on the shares granted under the PSP are reinvested to buy further shares.
3 The performance conditions for the April 2006 PSP award were satisfied and the award vested in full during the year.
The share price of the shares on the date of vesting 24 April 2009 was 588p.
Shares awarded on 19 March 2007 have satisfied their performance conditions in full and will therefore vest 100% on 19 March 2010.
Based on a share price of 1027p, which is the share price at 26 February 2010 being the latest practicable date prior to the adoption of this Report by the Remuneration Committee, the values of the awards made to the executive Directors would be as follows: Ayman Asfari: 982,541: Amjad Bseisu: 573,138: Keith Roberts: 600,436: and Maroun Semaan: 464,245.
4 Shares awarded on 19 March 2008 and 19 March 2009 are not due to vest until 19 March 2011 and 2012, respectively.
It is too early, in the Committees opinion, to provide shareholders with a meaningful assessment to the extent that these shares will vest, if at all.
Governance 86 87 Statement of Directors Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 responsibilities Directors remuneration report Statement of Directors responsibilities continued Award of shares under the DBSP Directors responsibilities Keith Roberts was granted 31,153 shares under the DBSP on 24 April 2006.
The award was made solely in respect of Invested Shares.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the group financial statements and the parent company financial No Matching Shares were granted.
Following the award of dividend shares in 2006, 2007 and 2008 the number of Invested Shares was statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors have chosen to prepare the group financial statements 32,399 shares on 31 December 2008.
The award vested in full on 24 April 2009.
The market price at the date of grant was 353p and the and the parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Directors are also market price on 24 April 2009 was 588p.
responsible for the preparation of the Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report, which they have chosen to prepare, being under no obligation to do so under Jersey law.
Sums paid to third parties in respect of executive Directors services No sums were paid to third parties in respect of any executive Directors services 2008: nil.
Jersey Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period in accordance with any generally accepted accounting principles.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Directors beneficial shareholdings at 31 December 2009 Company and group at the period end and the profit or loss of the Company and group for the period then ended.
In preparing these Directors personal shareholdings, which include family interests and which are not related to their remuneration, have been disclosed financial statements, the Directors should: under the requirements of the UKLA listing rules and are as follows: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Number of Number of make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent shares as at shares as at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 specify which generally accepted accounting principles have been adopted in their preparation Executive Directors prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue Ayman Asfari 53,782,114 53,782,114 in business Maroun Semaan 30,607,676 30,568,799 Keith Roberts 2,120,000 2,120,000 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which are sufficient to show and explain its transactions and as Non-executive Directors such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and group and enable them to ensure Rodney Chase 800,000 800,000 that the financial statements prepared by the Company comply with the Law.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Kjell Almskog 400,000 400,000 the Company and group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Bernard fide Combret 700,000 700,000 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Michael Press 240,000 240,000 website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other Rijnhard van Tets 100,000 100,000 jurisdictions.
The Companys share price at the end of the financial year was 1043p and the market price during the year was in the range 349p Directors approach to 1063p.
The Boards objective is to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects, particularly in the Annual Report, Half Year Report formerly the Interim Report and other published documents and reports to regulators.
The Board Changes since the year end has established an Audit Committee to assist with this obligation.
There have been no changes since the year end to the information disclosed in this Report.
Going concern Annual General Meeting approval The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out The Remuneration Report will be submitted for approval to the Annual General Meeting to be held on Thursday, 13 May 2010. in the Business Review on pages 18 to 52.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 50 to 52.
In addition, note 31 to the financial statements include the Companys objectives, On behalf of the Board policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Bernard fide Combret Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The Company has considerable financial resources together with long-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across 5 March 2010 different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Financial statements 88 89 Consolidated Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 income statement Independent auditors report Consolidated income statement To the members of Petrofac Limited For the year ended 31 December 2009 2009 2008 We have audited the group financial statements of Petrofac Limited Scope of the audit of the financial statements Notes US$000 US$000 the Company and its subsidiaries together the group for the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Revenue 4a 3,655,426 3,329,536 year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the consolidated disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive assurance that the financial statements are free from material Cost of sales 4b 3,035,120 2,776,661 income, the consolidated statement of financial position, the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Gross profit 620,306 552,875 consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Selling, general and administration expenses 4e 180,197 202,167 of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Other income 4c 4,075 7,421 reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Other expenses 4d 2,998 2,543 is applicable Jersey law and International Financial Reporting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of Standards IFRSs.
Profit from operations before tax and finance income costs 441,186 355,586 Finance costs 5 5,582 13,906 We have reported separately on the parent company financial Opinion on financial statements Finance income 5 11,942 16,688 statements of Petrofac Limited for the year ended 31 December In our opinion the group financial statements: Profit before tax 447,546 358,368 2009 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report give a true and fair view, in accordance with International Financial Income tax expense 6 84,515 93,379 that is described as having been audited.
Reporting Standards, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: and Profit for the year 363,031 264,989 This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body, have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements in accordance with the provisions of our engagement letter and of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Attributable to: Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work Petrofac Limited shareholders 353,603 264,989 has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Matters on which we are required to report by exception Minority interests 9,428 members those matters we are required to state to them in an We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 363,031 264,989 auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to to you if, in our opinion: anyone other than the Company and the Companys members proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company: as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions the Companys accounts are not in agreement with the Earnings per share US cents 7 we have formed.
accounting records: or Basic 104.78 78.03 we have not received all the information and explanations we Diluted 103.19 77.11 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors The Company requested that we review: The attached notes 1 to 33 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
Responsibilities set out on page 87, the Companys Directors are the Directors statement set out on page 87, in relation to going responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements concern: and and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 69 Directors are also responsible for the preparation of the Corporate relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of Governance Report, which they have chosen to prepare on the June 2008 Combined Code which for a listed UK-incorporated a voluntary basis.
company, are specified for review by the Companys auditor by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Other matter Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply We have reported separately on the parent company financial with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards statements of Petrofac Limited for the year ended 31 December for Auditors.
2009 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
In addition the Company has also instructed us to review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Companys Ernst & Young LLP compliance with the nine provisions of the 2008 Combined London Code and the Directors statement on going concern which, 5 March 2010 for a listed UK-incorporated company, are specified for review by the Companys auditor by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Financial statements 90 91 Consolidated statement Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 of financial position Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated statement of financial position For the year ended 31 December 2009 At 31 December 2009 2009 2008 2009 2008 Notes US$000 US$000 Notes US$000 US$000 Profit for the year 363,031 264,989 Assets Non-current assets Foreign currency translation 15,087 84,232 Property, plant and equipment 9 677,996 413,064 Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges Goodwill 11 97,922 97,534 recycled in the year 23 4,303 32,103 Intangible assets 12 73,107 38,353 Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges 29,229 25,907 Available-for-sale financial assets 14 539 566 Net changes in the fair value of available-for-sale Other financial assets 15 12,535 9,126 financial assets 879 Deferred income tax assets 6c 49,726 46,444 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 14 355 911,825 605,087 Other comprehensive income loss 40,013 142,766 Current assets Total comprehensive income for the year 403,044 122,223 Inventories 16 9,798 4,077 Work in progress 17 333,698 252,695 Attributable to: Trade and other receivables 18 878,670 700,931 Petrofac Limited shareholders 389,416 122,223 Due from related parties 30 18,260 2,907 Minority interests 13,628 Other financial assets 15 30,957 9,709 403,044 122,223 Cash and short-term deposits 19 1,417,363 694,415 2,688,746 1,664,734 The attached notes 1 to 33 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
Total assets 3,600,571 2,269,821 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders Share capital 20 8,638 8,636 Share premium 69,712 68,203 Capital redemption reserve 10,881 10,881 Shares to be issued 10 1,988 1,988 Treasury shares 21 56,285 69,333 Other reserves 23 21,194 39,292 Retained earnings 834,382 577,739 890,510 558,822 Minority interests 16,245 209 Total equity 906,755 559,031 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 24 59,195 88,188 Provisions 25 92,103 29,663 Other financial liabilities 26 27,485 32,265 Deferred income tax liabilities 6c 42,192 38,196 220,975 188,312 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 27 967,791 513,329 Due to related parties 30 57,326 559 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 24 58,071 54,412 Other financial liabilities 26 3,634 6,362 Income tax payable 88,219 110,428 Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 17 461,144 285,527 Accrued contract expenses 28 836,656 551,861 2,472,841 1,522,478 Total liabilities 2,693,816 1,710,790 Total equity and liabilities 3,600,571 2,269,821 The financial statements on pages 89 to 129 were approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2010 and signed on its behalf by Keith Roberts Chief Financial Officer.
The attached notes 1 to 33 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
Financial statements 92 93 Consolidated statement Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 of changes in equity Consolidated cash flow statement Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December 2009 For the year ended 31 December 2009 2009 2008 Attributable to shareholders of Petrofac Limited Notes US$000 US$000 Issued Capital share Share redemption Shares to Treasury Other Retained Minority Total Operating activities capital premium reserve be issued shares reserves earnings Total interests equity Profit before tax 447,546 358,368 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Adjustments for: note 21 note 23 Depreciation, amortisation, impairment and write-off 4b, 4e 117,780 63,366 Balance at 1 January 2009 8,636 68,203 10,881 1,988 69,333 39,292 577,739 558,822 209 559,031 Share-based payments 4f 13,263 9,448 Net profit for the year 353,603 353,603 9,428 363,031 Difference between other long-term employment benefits Other comprehensive income 35,813 35,813 4,200 40,013 paid and amounts recognised in the income statement 7,905 9,007 Total comprehensive income Net finance income 5 6,360 2,782 for the year 35,813 353,603 389,416 13,628 403,044 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4b, 4d 784 41 Shares issued on acquisition Other non-cash items, net 3,233 11,303 note 10 2 1,509 1,511 1,511 Operating profit before working capital changes 576,117 448,751 Share-based payments charge note 22 13,263 13,263 13,263 Trade and other receivables 176,773 194,817 Shares vested during the Work in progress 81,003 17,486 year note 21 13,048 12,617 431 Due from related parties 15,353 240 Transfer to reserve for shareInventories 5,721 1,821 based payments note 22 10,942 10,942 10,942 Other current financial assets 4,775 1,680 Deferred tax on share-based Trade and other payables 466,469 104,708 payment reserve 13,085 13,085 13,085 Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 175,617 77,422 Capital injection by Accrued contract expenses 284,795 138,395 minority interests 2,408 2,408 Due to related parties 56,767 185 Dividends note 8 96,529 96,529 96,529 Other current financial liabilities 177 Balance at 31 December 2009 8,638 69,712 10,881 1,988 56,285 21,194 834,382 890,510 16,245 906,755 1,276,317 588,499 Attributable to shareholders of Petrofac Limited Other non-current items, net 58 1,927 Issued Capital Cash generated from operations 1,276,259 586,572 share Share redemption Shares to Treasury Other Retained Minority Total Interest paid 3,351 11,526 capital premium reserve be issued shares reserves earnings Total interests equity US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Income taxes paid, net 87,714 67,418 note 21 note 23 Net cash flows from operating activities 1,185,194 507,628 Balance at 1 January 2008 as previously reported 8,636 68,203 10,881 29,842 50,467 377,450 485,795 209 486,004 Investing activities Restatement 36,966 36,966 36,966 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 317,174 255,542 Balance at 1 January 2008 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 10 40,774 as restated 8,636 68,203 10,881 29,842 87,433 377,450 522,761 209 522,970 Purchase of other intangible assets 12 10,375 Net profit for the year 264,989 264,989 264,989 Purchase of intangible oil & gas assets 12 29,230 37,036 Other comprehensive loss 142,766 142,766 142,766 Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 106 Total comprehensive Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,333 1,031 income loss for the year 142,766 264,989 122,223 122,223 Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 95 Shares to be issued on acquisition Interest received 12,158 16,704 note 10 1,988 1,988 1,988 Net cash flows used in investing activities 343,299 315,617 Share-based payments charge note 22 9,448 9,448 9,448 Financing activities Shares vested during the year Proceeds from interest-bearing loans and borrowings 25,000 note 21 3,009 3,009 Repayment of interest-bearing loans and borrowings 9,958 6,213 Treasury shares purchased Proceeds from capital injection by minority interest 2,408 note 21 42,500 42,500 42,500 Treasury shares purchased 21 42,500 Transfer to reserve for sharebased payments note 22 9,602 9,602 9,602 Equity dividends paid 98,995 64,135 Dividends note 8 64,700 64,700 64,700 Net cash flows used in financing activities 106,545 87,848 Balance at 31 December 2008 8,636 68,203 10,881 1,988 69,333 39,292 577,739 558,822 209 559,031 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 735,350 104,163 Shares held by Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust.
Net foreign exchange difference on cash and cash equivalents 6,235 20,890 The attached notes 1 to 33 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 649,159 565,886 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 19 1,390,744 649,159 The attached notes 1 to 33 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
