30 Business Review R Review of Operations Marketing and Distribution Division MDD Web sales grew 23.5% in the year and eCommerce channels MDD Comprises: Newark, Farnell Europe and Asia Pacic, now account for 34.8% of total MDD sales and over 50% in MCM and CPC Farnell Europe.
Continued enhancements to speed, search and functionality, including several new tools to make the web Continuing businesses a richer channel, has seen it become our primary channel for 2009 2008 m 52 weeks 53 weeks Growth new customer acquisition.
In addition, the development of tools aimed at existing customers, including multi-channel Revenue 727.1 670.9 1.6% order history, allowing customers to review their entire Total operating profit 82.8 84.4 10.0% purchasing history online, has also resulted in a significant Underlying operating profit 85.7 84.4 6.8% proportion of customers switching to the web.
Our websites Total operating margin % 11.4% 12.6% are best in class and are regularly tested against standards Underlying operating margin % 11.8% 12.6% set by web businesses: Premier Farnell regularly has faster search times than well-known global web-centric brands.
Excluding restructuring costs of 2.9 million 2008: nil.
Our websites contain up to three gigabytes of product, legislative and environmental information for each of our over Overall, sales for the year rose 1.6%.
We have continued to 400,000 products.
This information is extremely valuable execute our strategy throughout the year, repositioning the to EDE customers as they begin their designs and we have organisation for growth throughout the industry cycle, and a dedicated team of professionals who pull together and focusing on the faster growing areas of the market EDE, distil this information.
the web and internationalisation while maintaining our focus The web migration has permitted us to effect permanent on profitable MRO.
Sales growth in the first half of the year changes to our cost base.
This, together with the benefit was 6.2%, in line with our strategic target, while the second of integrated programmes for cost reduction and operational half of the year was impacted by the unprecedented global efficiency, will enable us to rebase our net operating expenses economic slowdown and saw sales decline by 3.0%.
Despite as a percentage of sales.
Accordingly, we have raised our the current economic challenges, the strategy we set two long-term target for return on sales for the Group as a whole years ago is still aligned with the available opportunities for from 10% to 12%.
EDE, the web, China, India and most of Eastern Europe are expected to continue growing as the global The multi-channel approach for the MDD Division economy declines during this down cycle, and we continue means that we will still produce informative catalogues.
rigorously to pursue growth in these target markets.
We have These catalogues have evolved in line with our strategic made, and despite the challenges of the global economy, will transformation and now have a greater emphasis on EDE continue to make, strategic investments in the business.
products and solutions than ever before.
The businesses During the year we incurred incremental revenue investment have also used other marketing tools to attract new of over 8.0 million to meet the technical needs of our EDE customers: the year saw the launch of a journal targeted at customer segment, as well as investing to ensure the EDE customers, and the hosting of a number of sponsored robustness of our global product offering.
In addition, to events which focused on specic product and market ensure that we are appropriately structured for the future, segments.
One such even focused on the LED market, in the fourth quarter of the year we reduced our global which is estimated to be growing at circa 20% annually, employee base by around 300, for a total Group wide one-off while another was focused on energy efficiency, which cost of 3.4 million of which 2.9 million related to the MDD continues to drive a significant amount of our customers Division and a total annualised benefit of 12.0 million.
will continue to evaluate our operations to ensure that back ofce systems and sales and marketing functions are Product and supplier portfolio appropriately aligned to our customer shift in preferred We continue to evaluate our franchise portfolio to ensure sales channels.
that we have the right products and suppliers on our line card.
EDE customers require esoteric product for their new Underlying operating profit was 85.7 million 2008: designs, while profitable MRO customers require specic 84.4 million with underlying operating margin of 11.8% products for the maintenance and repair work they conduct.
There was a beneficial impact on operating Striking the right balance is important and during the year profit in the financial year from the translation of overseas we further strengthened our offering by adding more than results of 7.6 million, reecting the relative strength of 40 new supplier partnerships to support our high service the US dollar 4.6 million and the Euro 3.0 million.
The complete list follows: 31 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 New major suppliers are launched to the market quickly and effectively, as Premier Farnell does, there is a better chance that these Altera Programmable logic solutions time sensitive designs will incorporate the new technology, NXP Semicondctors Semiconductors, system solutions and software thereby ensuring that the component will be required for the Sanyo Denki Cooling, servo and power systems ongoing large scale production of the product.
Space Age Electronics Switches, relays and enclosures Power Integration Analog integrated circuits Throughout the year we added 54,000 EDE products to Lista International Storage and workspace systems our portfolio: these are esoteric products in high demand Solid State Devices Inc Semiconductors by our EDE customers.
The Divisions portfolio now includes Samtec Electronic interconnects the majority of the worlds leading electronic component E-Switch Switches brands and a strong base of emerging technology suppliers, Cree High Brightness LED Blockmaster Terminal Blocks providing design engineers across the globe with increased Wrth Elekronik EMC Solutions access to an impressive depth and breadth of product.
TDK Capacitors MDD Americas Newark and MCM New emerging technology suppliers 2009 2008 m 52 weeks 53 weeks Growth ADDA AC DC Fans Austria Microsystems Analog Revenue 359.6 326.7 0.3% Aventus AC DC Fans Total operating profit 32.6 31.0 8.4% Bridgelux High Brightness LED Underlying operating profit 33.5 31.0 5.9% Dataman Test and measurement products Total operating margin % 9.1% 9.5% Evidence Srl Real-time embedded systems LedEngin High Brightness LED Underlying operating margin% 9.3% 9.5% Ht-Soft Commercial ANSI C cross compilers Excluding restructuring costs of 0.9 million 2008: nil.
Radiotronix Integrated IC-style RF modules See note a on page 28.
SIMCOM Communications Crystek Frequency products Wavecom Communications Statistics from the Semiconductor Industry Association SIA Seiko Instruments CMOS IC, quartz crystal, showed a year on year decline in billings in the Americas for micro-energy and LCD devices the equivalent period of 11.6%.
In MDD Americas sales grew Columbia Staver Heatsinks 0.3%, with the slow down experienced in the fourth quarter Beaverswood Marking and Labelling offsetting the growth experienced in the first three quarters.
Advanced Thermal Solutions Advanced Heatsinks The first half of the year saw our strategy take hold and effect Elite Semiconductor Memory real transformation in the Americas, while the second half PLX Technology PCI Backplane Bridges and Dev Tools saw the business continue to drive the strategy despite the Flexipanel HEXWAX PIC Progamming and USB-based modules Avonwood RFID Dev Tools and Tags slowing market.
LM Technologies Radio Comms Modules Total operating margin for the year was 9.1% 2008: 9.5%.
Inova Semiconductor Communications Underlying operating margin was 9.3% 2008: 9.5%.
Amber Wireless Communications UBLOX GPS Eval Kit Web sales in MDD Americas grew by 25.9% in the year.
Star Micronics Ultrasonic liquid ow meters Total eCommerce sales represented 20.3% of total sales MMD Quartztek Frequency control products in the year as our web channel continues to attract new Luminary Micro Semiconductors customers to our high service proposition and draw Space Age Electronics Building automation L-Com Cable assemblies, connectors and customers from other channels to this rich source of other connectivity devices information.
During the year the business launched several Coleman Cable Wire and cable products new and innovative self-service eTools to make our web Omron scientific Machine safeguarding products proposition even richer, these include Multi-Channel Mountz Torque Analyzers and Sensors Order History, which makes a customers complete history Vynicker Enclosure Systems Enclosures available regardless of channel, iBuy, Premier Farnells own eProcurement solution and eQuotes which is an innovative Suppliers looking to reach our growing EDE customer tool that makes turning a quote into an order, seamless.
base continue to partner with us in exclusive programmes.
Our high service proposition is as important to suppliers as it is to customers: suppliers value the high service model because it enables the faster introduction of new products to EDE customers globally.
When these new products R 32 Business Review continued R Review of Operations Newark MCM Newark is a market-leading multi-channel distributor MCM distributes electronics and related equipment to service of electronic components, eProcurement solutions and repair professionals and technical hobbyists throughout and stockroom management services in the Americas.
the US and comprises 7% of MDD Americas sales.
During Its customers include electronic design engineers and the year MCM sales were down 3.2% on the prior year, as maintenance repair technicians in the US, Canada, Mexico US consumer spending softened.
Despite these challenges, and Brazil.
It comprises 93% of MDD sales in the Americas.
MCM attracted more than 30,000 new customers via the Newarks sales grew 0.6% in the year as the business web as a result of improvements to search engine marketing continued to pursue its strategic transformation in and optimisation.
Web sales improved 7.2% throughout the increasingly challenging markets.
year and eCommerce now accounts for 46.2% of total MCM sales.
In addition to improved web marketing, the business During the year Newarks focus on the EDE segment of its continues to benefit from its traditional marketing campaigns business included the introduction of more than 27,000 new and innovative customer re-activation programmes.
EDE products to its portfolio and launching several innovative marketing campaigns to attract new EDE customers to MDD Europe and Asia Pacic its offering.
Targeted marketing activities, together with Farnell, CPC, Premier Electronics improvements to the web front end and the introduction Continuing operations of several new web tools, resulted in sales to the small and 2009 2008 emerging customer segment growing by 23.7% year on year.
m 52 weeks 53 weeks Growth New web tools included our multi-channel order history, Revenue 367.5 344.2 2.8% which gives customers access to their history with Newark Total operating profit 50.2 53.4 11.0% regardless of channel, and eQuotes, an innovative new online Underlying operating profit 52.2 53.4 7.4% quoting tool that can easily be converted into a purchase Total operating margin % 13.7% 15.5% order.
These tools combined with improvements to our Underlying operating margin% 14.2% 15.5% speed and search capabilities have seen web sales increase Excluding restructuring costs of 2.0 million 2008: nil.
by 29.2%: sales via eCommerce now account for 20.3% of See note a on page 28. total sales for the Division.
The web has not only improved functionality for our Sales increased by 2.8% in the year, as the strength customers, but has also provided Newark with improved demonstrated by the business in the first half of the year operating efficiencies.
One touch order processing allows a offset the slowing experienced in the second half.
Mainland web order to be processed automatically: the first time it is Europe continues to be the region in the most advanced seen by one of our employees is when the order is sent to stage of our strategic transformation and sales growth has our distribution facility for picking, packing and dispatch.
In the UK, we took actions early in The improved efficiency from this type of processing the year to address some areas where it was felt there were has allowed us to enhance our back ofce systems to failings, and throughout the year Farnell UK outperformed ensure that they appropriately support our web offering.
the market and embraced these changes.
This permanent enhancement in our back ofce systems In Asia, the benets from the strategic initiatives, in particular has improved our exibility and cost structure, making the the emphasis on growing China and India, helped deliver web the most cost effective channel.
strong growth in all four quarters.
The underlying operating Newark continued to expand its multi-channel offering across margin of 14.2% reected the impact of the sales decline in North America and subsequent to year end has announced a the fourth quarter and the strategic investments we are restructuring of its branch network, resulting in the closure of making for the future.
A number of employees from these branches Progress has continued against the strategic initiatives.
will continue to form part of a local team that will continue Web sales continue to grow, up 22.8% in the year, and supporting customers and maintaining the business strong eCommerce sales now account for 46.4% of total sales.
We have invested signicantly Five new local language websites were launched during the in our contact centre to ensure that we are able to continue year, in support of growing demand across Asia and Eastern the important one-to-one customer relationships already Europe.
As predicted when we launched our strategy, EDE established, and will continue investing in our web environment sales grew faster at any time in the cycle than MRO, and we to further attract customers to this content rich channel.
continue to see an outperformance of EDE sales.
In order Newark Brazil recorded sales growth of 18.8% in the year to support this faster growing segment, MDD Europe and with full year sales of 6.9 million.
Asia Pacic added more than 150,000 new EDE products to its portfolio and signed exclusive distributorships with 40 new EDE focused suppliers, ensuring exclusive access to new high demand, specialised EDE products.
33 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 U Light Emitting Diodes LEDs : lighting the future In the current market conditions Light Emitting Diodes LEDs are one of the brightest lights.
Sales of LEDs are expected to show a larger growth rate than the overall semiconductor market for the first time ever this year, with a predicted growth on average of circa 20% annually according to market intelligence company Databeans.
This predicted growth affects not just LED sales.
Because a The LED market will get a further boost in the short term by typical LED solution is more complex than conventional lighting, the banning of incandescent bulbs, the most inefficient type of these solutions also drive the sale of associated electronics lighting.
The national governments of several countries, including products.
LED drivers, specialised microcontrollers, thermal Brazil and Switzerland, have already started to phase out the solutions and lighting accessories are expected to experience use of incandescent bulbs and the EU is set to follow by 2012. a similar rise in sales.
Premier Farnell has prepared for this by stating it will not sell any more incandescent bulbs after current stocks are exhausted.
The market is driven by developments in LED technology by companies such as Cree, Lumileds and Osram, who have With such a broad range of markets and such complexity of developed LEDs which are able to replace conventional lighting design, HB-LED solutions have brought lighting under the remit sources in markets as diverse as domestic and commercial of the electronics design engineer.
With its existing large EDE lighting, automotive applications and signage.
client base, which operates in every area of the Electronics market, Premier Farnell is ideally placed to capture a major share High-Brightness LEDs HB-LEDs offer many advantages over of the HB-LED market.
The Company already offers a huge range conventional lighting, the most important being energy efficiency.
of HB-LEDs and supporting products, which is growing on a daily It is estimated that 20% of the worlds electricity generation is basis, and also the highest levels of support for EDEs working in given over to lighting, and conventional lighting can be as little as this emerging and exciting industry.
HB-LEDs are an order of magnitude more efficient, as well as being more reliable, longer lasting and flexible.
Each new generation of HB-LED technology improves on these advantages and allows to LEDs to displace conventional lighting in more applications.
R 34 Business Review continued R Review of Operations Internationalisation also continued at pace and sales from Farnell UK sales declined by 0.7% in the year, reecting developing markets accounted for 17.6% of total sales, the challenging market conditions, yet still signicantly approaching the 20% target.
outperforming the market: the Association of Franchised Distributors of Electronic Components AFDEC showed a Revenue by region decline in the UK of 4.1%.
Corrective actions taken early in Continuing businesses the year to address some performance related challenges 2009 2008 Revenue saw Farnell UK deliver three straight quarters of sales growth, m 52 weeks 53 weeks growth while the fourth quarter was signicantly challenged by UK including exports 176.9 179.1 0.8% slowing sales in many areas of the market.
Despite these Mainland Europe 155.0 134.4 4.5% challenges, progress against the strategic initiatives continues Asia Pacic 35.6 30.7 6.7% and as a result the business was in a position to reduce costs by way of non-essential head count reductions in the See note a on page 28. fourth quarter.
Further rationalisation is expected as we align Mainland Europe the business with the needs of our EDE customers, the web Strategic progress is most advanced in mainland Europe and new and developing international markets.
and our continued focus on EDE, the web and faster growing CPC: CPC distributes electrical and electronic equipment international markets all combined to deliver sales growth and accessories.
of 4.5% during the year, helping to offset the effects of the economic slowdown.
Continued innovation has supported Sales for the year were broadly at, as the business was able web sales growth in the year and customers are increasingly to offset the softening market through innovative marketing drawn to this content rich channel.
iBuy, the new campaigns and targeted sales growth in some of the higher eProcurement solution launched in the second quarter, growth segments of its market like energy efficiency and own has seen strong take up with over 1,000 active customers.
Own brand sales continued to perform strongly and Customer segmentation work has ensured that the business represented 24% of total sales in the year as customers has the products and solutions to meet the needs of EDE looked for alternative products to meet their needs.
CPCs customers in high growth segments.
Despite the broad web sales increased 16.7% and record numbers of unique based slowing, certain segments of the market demonstrated visitors logged on, driven by improvements to the web front strong growth throughout the year and this business worked end and new ways of marketing the web.
Despite the with customers and suppliers to target this growth through challenges in the market and the increasing pressure on effective and efficient means.
The addition of new EDE prices, CPC effectively controlled its margins.
products improves the breadth and depth of the portfolio.
Sales from the fast growing East European market grew Asia Pacic 68.4%, more than 50% growth in each quarter.
A local Sales in Asia Pacic were up 6.7% in the year, reecting the approach to business in these regions, combined with the strong growth of sales in Asia offsetting the challenging year strength of 11 local language websites, the broad product faced by Australia and New Zealand.
offering and guaranteed next day delivery has resulted in the Our strategy predicted that China and India would continue acquisition of customers in the region every day.
For more to see strong growth, even if Western economies entered a information refer to the case study on page 35. downturn and the results delivered throughout the year have In December the business acquired part of the trading rights demonstrated the continued appropriateness of this strategy.
and assets of the Microdis Holdings Group, a distributor in Although China and India are experiencing a slow-down, they Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
Microdis has a continue to grow and continue to demonstrate significant long history in Eastern Europe and was an authorised opportunities for further expansion.
This acquisition will extend the Farnell In China, EDE customers are drawn to the high service footprint even further into this high growth region.
proposition that enables us to deliver next day to more than 110 cities across the country.
The web is the preferred UK channel for these customers as they spend significant The Divisions UK sales, comprising sales from Farnell UK amounts of time online, researching legislative and and CPC, increased 0.8% in the year.
environmental requirements, viewing products and product Farnell: Farnell markets and distributes electronic specications, talking to one another or our technical experts components, test and measurement equipment and MRO and placing orders.
Sales in China increased 39.4% on the products to design engineers, purchasing professionals prior year as customer acquisition activities, the broad and maintenance technicians, with businesses in the UK, product offering and a targeted approach to higher growth mainland Europe and Asia Pacic.
segments of the market continued to deliver growth, despite the somewhat slower economy.
For more information refer to the case study on page 35.
35 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 U U Expanding customer reach in Eastern Europe Supporting Chinas rapid growth Premier Farnell entered the EDE markets in China is one of the worlds largest economies Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and and continues to be one of the fastest growing, Slovakia during 2007 as part of our strategy with forecasters expecting 2009 GDP of 6%.
to penetrate profitable emerging markets in The strength of the economy is supported Eastern Europe.
Since then, Farnell has through a large population base, fast paced expanded through 11 local language websites industrialisation, significant public investment and a dedicated sales team, offering 475,000 and a high esteem for education.
China has the products on next day delivery to over 6,000 largest number of electronic design engineers in active customers across the region.
the world, with an estimated 70,000 graduating from universities every year.
The majority of these Eastern Europe has experienced significant levels of engineers remain in China, designing for local industrialisation as a result of application for inclusion in the consumption.
European Union and this continues to drive considerable development and investment.
The region has a highly educated workforce, with a large proportion of electronic design engineers, Increased government investment has been announced for a and as the economy continues to grow, so too does the demand number of electronics sectors, including lighting, alternative from consumers, businesses and government for new products.
energy and energy management, medical devices and high technology security.
Premier Farnell delivered an 68.4% growth in sales in Eastern Europe, with the rapid acquisition of customers to our high Premier Electronics was established in 2007 and offers service proposition and the launch of five more local language customers in China the same high service available to customers websites.
We also completed an acquisition of part of the assets around the world.
With more than 20,000 products available for and trading rights formerly belonging to the Microdis Holdings next day delivery to over 110 Chinese cities, the business is well Group, an authorised distributor for Farnell for six years.
placed to support all of the growing sectors.
This acquisition has significantly extended our customer reach Our transformation to an EDE and web business in China within Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
It has allowed continues at pace.
More than 50% of sales are now EDE us to build on the relationships with the EDE community in the products and the business exited the year with eCommerce region and enhance our existing offering in support of local sales accounting for 30% of total sales.
Sales growth for the design engineers.
Our high service proposition is extremely attractive to EDE We are committed to growing our market share in China.
customers and we continue to take market share and grow As one of the only large players in the market, we know the our business through a consistently localised approach to scale of opportunity that exists and continued investment will the markets where growth exists.
R 36 Business Review continued R Review of Operations Farnell India, which started trading at the end of January Akron Brass 2008 completed its first year as part of the Group.
The Akron Brass is a market leader in the manufacture and sale business was quick to adopt our high service proposition of high performance re-ghting equipment for re trucks and saw significant sequential sales growth in all four quarters.
manufacturers, public re services and industrial facilities.
In order to support local EDE customers, Farnell India Its products are designed to improve the safety and efficiency expanded its network to nine branches, launched a local of personnel and equipment engaged in the suppression of websites with rupee pricing, introduced a catalogue to the re and also includes lighting and electrical control solutions.
market and developed cyber cafes that enable customers It sells through its own eld sales force and through who do not have access to the web a place to go and use distributors to customers around the world.
Farnell India offers more than four million share of the North American market and seeks to grow by products available for delivery from the distribution centres broadening its product range and reach new geographic located globally.
For more information refer to the case study and industrial markets.
Sales at Akron Brass were down 0.9%, reecting the Markets continued to be challenging in Australia and success of measures taken to diversify and expand into New Zealand ANZ.
This business went through a rigorous international and new industrial markets.
International reshaping in the third quarter in order to address some of sales now represent 21.1% of the businesss total sales.
A team was dispatched to address Akron Brass also saw strong growth from new industrial people, product and pricing issues faced by the ANZ segments, including school buses, petrochemical and business.
Each of these issues has now been corrected military applications.
and the business is now strategically aligned with Tight cost controls and initiatives to ensure that the business opportunities in the local market.
Sales for the year is the right shape for its current market conditions have were down 6.1%.
allowed the business to maintain its margins again this year.
Industrial Products Division TPC Wire & Cable The Industrial Products Division IPD comprised three TPC is a distributor of high performance electrical wire, cable businesses during the year, Akron Brass and TPC Wire and connectors designed for heavy duty or harsh industrial & Cable, both supplying high performance products to environments in the US, Canada and Mexico.
specialist industrial markets, and Cadillac Electric which has now been closed.
TPC sales declined 8.0% during the year, as the businesss traditional automotive markets were severely impacted by the 2009 2008 m 52 weeks 53 weeks Growth slowing global economy.
Diversication into new industrial markets, including crane, utilities, alternative energy and Revenue 77.3 73.8 5.0% petrochemical, continues.
Sales into non-automotive markets Total operating profit 14.1 14.8 17.1% now account for 80% of sales and the business will continue Underlying operating profit 14.3 14.8 15.9% to develop new products for the higher growth segments that Total operating margin % 18.2% 20.1% it supports.
Underlying operating margin% 18.5% 20.1% Programmes have been put in place to ensure that TPC is Excluding restructuring costs of 0.2 million 2008: nil.
right-sized for current business levels.
Reduced overheads See note a on page 28. and tight control on all other costs have resulted in stable margin, despite the slowing sales environment.
Our IPD Division predominantly supplies products for North American industrial markets.
Sales for Akron Brass Cadillac Electric and TPC Wire & Cable combined, which together represent Sales in Cadillac were down 30.9% in the year at 4.8 million, 93% of the IPD business, declined 2.5% in the year as both reecting the significant challenges faced by the North these businesses continued to diversify successfully in to American automotive market and the planned wind down international and new industrial markets to offset the decline of specic trading activities.
Towards the end of the year in their traditional North American markets which have been the decision was taken to transfer the Hoffman range of signicantly impacted by the economic slowdown.
Cadillac products to the TPC Wire & Cable business and to wind Electric sales, which represent 7% of total IPD sales and down the remaining part of this business.
This will be 0.6% of Group sales, declined to 4.8 million, reecting completed by the end of the first quarter of 2010 at no the planned wind down of specic trading activity.
significant cost to the Group.
37 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 U U Innovation to drive high value proposition Indias high service, high growth opportunities The creation of Global Technology Centres Indias electronics industry has undergone GTCs has further differentiated Premier Farnell rapid development since the 1970s.
significant in the market, and continues to add value for investment in education has meant that it now customers.
The GTCs are fundamental to has more than 200,000 engineering graduates accelerating our strategic transformation to contributing approximately 10% of electronic EDE and the web.
design engineers to the global EDE market, as well as the local market.
The importance of Located in Chengdu, China and Bangalore, India, the GTCs engineering to India is evident in some of the employ electronic design engineers to provide technical support to customers, develop content for the websites, technical areas where it differentiates itself.
For instance, journals and eCommunity, as well as develop and manage India is one of only three countries that makes its projects that will accelerate our transformation to an EDE centric business.
own supercomputers, and is one of only six that Ensuring that we are able to support the global EDE community launches its own satellites.
We must have the right people, product and services in place in order to attract and retain these strategically important Rapid industrialisation continues at pace and the Asian customers.
As fully trained and experienced EDEs, employees Development Bank estimates that the economy will grow by in the GTCs have more insight into the minds of EDE customers approximately 7% in 2009.
While this represents a decline from than anyone else.
They have worked in a variety of environments the prior five year period, this still anticipates healthy growth and and understand the design cycle, design requirements and a robust electronics industry.
how expectations are changing in relation to legislative and Farnell India was established on 1 February 2008, following the environmental requirements.
Working together with suppliers, acquisition of part of the assets and trading rights of Hynetics, customers and technical experts, these in-house EDEs identify a principal distributor of the Farnell brand in India.
products and suppliers to enhance or complement our existing global portfolio.
Medical devices, consumer durables, automotive electronics, personal computing and information technology all continue to The creation of new tools and data for EDE customers is also of demonstrate strong growth within the Indian market and Farnell critical importance to our high service proposition.
EDEs have a India has more than four million products available to support natural propensity for the web: they are early adopters of new customers in these segments.
With nine branches supporting the technology and look for innovation in the websites they frequent.
major electronic engineering design centres across the country, The GTCs collect, analyse and create all of the unique data and a localised website and catalogue, and guaranteed next day technical content that appears on our global websites, ensuring delivery, Farnell India is established in this market and continues complete accuracy: they are also tasked to provide advanced to grow.
Customers across India now receive the same high engineering support and backup technical assistance for all service treatment available to any Premier Farnell customer regions, as well as general product training and trouble-shooting.
The GTCs are also heavily involved in the design of products and Premier Farnell will continue to monitor market activities, investing content for the eCommunity site, including multi-vendor product for growth where it is available and adjusting the value proposition comparisons and pickup and play applications.
The eCommunity to capitalise on opportunities.
will leverage this technical expertise together with the eCommerce expertise elsewhere in the business to create a rich and exciting environment where our customers and suppliers can interact, collaborate and develop lasting relationships.
