Business review Operational review Giles Thorley Industry overview Chief Executive Over the last few years the pub industry has faced substantial new regulation, tax and duty increases as well as the effects of the recession.
Despite this, we believe the pub is still one of the most important cultural components of social life in Britain.
At Punch, we are committed to safeguarding the future of the great British pub, whether it is in the development of our 835 managed pubs or through continued partnership with our 6,841 Partners in our leased pubs.
We are also working closely with the rest of the industry to develop a common voice on key issues facing the pub sector.
In May 2009 the BEC Report identified a number of key challenges for the industry which we had already recognised and have been quick to respond to.
We have subsequently introduced a number of changes to the way in which we operate including the removal of the Partner machine share from the rent calculation, the removal of upward only rent reviews, the passing on of negative RPI rent reviews, the removal of restrictive covenants on the sale of pubs and the introduction of a price match commitment on our insurance premiums.
We believe the pub To further evolve our leased business model and build open and transparent relationships with our Partners, we have embarked on a major change programme, Pathway to Partnership, which is still one of the most will see a cultural shift and a focus on ensuring joint profitability for Punch and our Partners.
important cultural We recognised the need for the industry to present a united front and played an active role in bringing key industry players together to participate in an industry wide mediation process.
We welcome components of social the decision of the OFT not to take further action against pub companies and sincerely hope that all industry bodies can work together to protect the future of the British pub which is in all of our interests.
Our 6,841 leased pubs employ c. 50,000 people and our 835 managed pubs employ c. 17,000 people, with each pub making a significant contribution to its community and the economy.
We will continue to work with the Government and industry to reduce the pressure on our pubs from increasing red tape and the continued increase in tax.
We would urge the Government to take positive steps to protect this important element of our local economy when considering its approach to duty and industry legislation.
The pub industry has been at the receiving end of punitive tax increases and burgeoning red tape for too long and it needs positive action from the Government and industry to improve its future.
com Leased estate Business overview We have continued to evolve the leased business model as we Punch Taverns plc is the UKs leading pub operator of over 7,600 focus on long term sustainable value creation for ourselves and our leased, tenanted and managed pubs.
A key element of this is our commitment to develop more open and transparent relationships with our Partners.
The business The company has scale across the market, being number two by has embarked on a three phase strategic change programme number of leased and tenanted pubs, as well as number two by called Pathway to Partnership, setting ourselves the ambitious goal number of managed pubs.
of becoming the most trusted and best value pub partnership business in the UK.
Management actions and priorities for 2009 The full year results reflect the challenging market conditions being Throughout the year focus has been upon stabilising business faced by the sector.
The wider recessionary economic conditions performance and this has seen us arrest the rate of decline have significantly reduced consumer confidence and impacted reported across the first quarter of the financial year.
There has the level of disposable income available for leisure activities.
been no material change in like for like EBITDA for the balance We anticipate that demand levels are unlikely to improve in of the year, being down by 11%.
Our programme to dispose the near term and given this difficult trading environment, of non core assets has further reduced EBITDA in the year by management action has been focused on four key objectives: approximately 6m c. 29m annualised, resulting in an EBITDA for the year of 412m.
Both sides of the business now have experienced leaders in place.
Additionally, Trading performance has been impacted by a combination of the whole of the organisation has been refocused and streamlined weaker beer volumes and a softening in rents, coupled with the to support the new leadership team.
previously announced increase in the levels of Partner support, which has been maintained at an average of 1.6m per month 2.
Following the across the year, being more than double the level of support being deterioration of trading towards the end of the 2008 financial year, provided in the previous year.
we have taken action across our business.
Within the leased estate, we have enhanced the level of support offered to Partners, while in In this difficult economic environment, the support that Punch the managed estate our value proposition has been strengthened provides to its Partners through flexible lease agreements, training, and our Operational Excellence programme has been launched.
sales driving activity, food development and financial support is As a result of these and other actions we have slowed margin more important than ever.
The number of closed pubs within the decline in the managed estate and have stabilised the rate of Punch estate at the year end remains a relatively small number at decline in the leased estate.
We believe these and other actions c. 4% of the estate.
will enable us to reposition the business to return to delivering long term sustainable growth and value in due course.
In addition to support for specific pubs, proactive actions have been taken to support each one of our Partners.
Through a variety of self-help measures of wholesale price increases introduced by the breweries has not including a reduction in support centre costs, a more focused been passed on to our Partners, with the September 2008 uplift capital expenditure programme and the acceleration of the being absorbed entirely and the more recent round of increases disposal of underperforming or non core assets.
We have also strengthened our relationships through a concerted focus on Business Relationship Managers 4.
Increased cash flow combined with cash raised BRMs spending more time in trade with their Partners providing from the placing and open offer has been used to reduce net consultancy business support, using our Flying Start programme.
During the year, 708m of debt has been repaid at a cost of 473m.
24% 11 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 reduction in net debt levels by 1,066m.
Business review Business review Operational review continued In order to give better organisational support to those pubs In February, we launched our Operational Excellence programme experiencing most difficulty, we established a Turnaround Division which represents the largest change programme ever undertaken which included c. 1,250 pubs which are managed outside our within our managed business.
The objective has been to simplify normal regional structure.
This ensures a much closer level of ways of working, streamline pub structures and have the right support and attention from our operational teams through people in place doing the right things.
Results are continually these very difficult trading conditions.
In addition, core estate monitored through focused measures which are independently management is refocused on business development as our audited with clear action plans.
It is early days for the programme BRMs now have fewer Tenancy At Will TAW and closed units but it is important in achieving an improved sales and operating to manage.
During the year we successfully disposed of over a third of the Operating margins continue to be impacted by above inflation original sites transferred to the Turnaround Division.
As part of the regulatory, food and energy cost increases together with continuous review of estate quality, a further 430 pubs have been promotional discounts to drive sales, with operating margins identified and transferred to the Turnaround Division since the year for the full year being down by 370 basis points.
The Turnaround Division now makes up c. 19% of the total cost pressures have begun to ease particularly in the area estate but contributes less than 6% of the operating profit and of energy costs where we are now benefiting from reduced includes approximately two thirds of the total number of closed prices compared with a year ago.
pubs and those pubs operating on TAW agreements.
We have completed a site by site review of the managed estate Managed estate including both concept and physical condition.
This has developed As with the leased estate, management actions have been focused a clear understanding of the capital expenditure prioritisation and on stabilising business performance.
Underpinning these actions also the disposal programme, driven by the future potential of has been a strengthening of our value proposition and the rollout each site.
During the year, we have completed 42m of capital of our new Operational Excellence programme.
investments including the introduction of new concepts coupled with all existing concepts being revised and improved.
Emphasis has been moved towards trading the business more actively through heightened promotional activity which has been In December 2008 a number of managed leasehold pubs reverted designed to grow sales and margin.
Business performance has to the Group, the majority of which had previously been sold to started to see a measure of improvement with like-for-like sales the Orchid Group in 2006.
In total, 52 pubs have reverted to the for the year being down by 1.5%, vs down 2.3% in the first half Group during the year, of which 37 have now resumed trading.
year and down 0.6% in the second.
Our programme to dispose of non core assets has further reduced EBITDA in the year by Matthew Clark joint venture approximately 3m c. 11m annualised, resulting in an EBITDA Matthew Clark, the 50% joint venture with Constellation Brands for the year of 100m.
Inc, continues to perform satisfactorily in a very competitive market, providing a post tax contribution to the Punch Group of 2m for the year.
Although relatively small compared to the rest of the Group on a profitability basis, Matthew Clark has significant scale in its marketplace as the largest independent drinks wholesaler and distributor to the UK leisure and hospitality industry, with gross turnover of c. 600m and c. 20,000 customers.
Matthew Clark has a strong strategic fit with the Punch Group and has enabled Punch Partners to benefit from an enhanced range of goods and services by leveraging Matthew Clarks market leading wines and spirits expertise.
com of capital investments in our managed estate, including the introduction of new concepts.
Financial The financial year comprised 52 weeks from 24 August 2008 to 22 August 2009, during which time we have generated profit before tax and exceptional items of 160m 2008: 262m.
Basic earnings per share before exceptional items were 36.1p 2008: 69.9p.
A number of exceptional items were incurred in the period, Introducing the resulting in a charge of 290m.
The principal items were 663m of pub impairment charges, a 55m charge for the mark-to-market Duty Manager of certain interest rate swaps, 246m gain on the repurchase of securities, 29m onerous lease provision, 8m of reorganisation costs and 32m loss on disposal, largely relating to the deemed disposal of goodwill.
Of these charges only 8m was an actual A key part of Operational Excellence was to introduce cash cost in the year.
The tax effect of these items, together with blueprint team structures for our managed pubs finalising a number of current and prior year tax matters with and introduce the role of Duty Manager to oversee HMRC, gave rise to an exceptional tax credit net of goodwill every shift.
To further improve the guest experience we have The carrying value of pub assets and investments at the year run 150 Perfect Shift Duty Manager training sessions end was revised to 5,405m, implying a Net Asset Value of 260p this year for over 2,000 attendees.
The number shown in the accounts is based on historic or deemed cost but subject to an annual impairment review.
Given the exceptional circumstances in the economy, we have recognised a pub impairment of 663m before tax.
The charge reflects the identification of further pubs considered unlikely to generate long term sustainable growth which have been written down to their disposal value, together with the impairment on pubs where profitability has been significantly impacted by the current market conditions.
Accounting standards require that where the value-in-use of individual pubs falls below their carrying value, then this reduction is charged to the income statement.
Uplifts in value are not reflected in the financial statements, unless and to the extent that they reverse a previous impairment charge.
The effective pre-exceptional tax charge was 29% 2008: 29%.
Cash tax in the year amounted to a repayment of 8m 2008: The Dog & Partridge, Tutbury.
21m repayment following the finalisation of prior year tax matters with HMRC.
As previously announced in September last year, the Board considers it prudent to continue to retain cash and further strengthen the balance sheet.
Consequently, dividends continue to be suspended.
13 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business review Business review Operational review continued Capital structure Our overriding objective is to continue to maximise the long term shareholder value of the Group.
Since flotation, we have maintained a debt structure funded almost entirely by long term mortgage finance, secured on our sizeable freehold property portfolio.
This remains the case today with 3.9bn of long term debt secured on over 7,400 SUMO Sell up, pub properties.
The debt fully repays over terms extending to 26 years and is all effectively at fixed rates of interest.
sell more and sell on As with all debt finance of this type, there are covenant and performance tests.
We have three debt finance vehicles: Punch A, Punch B and Spirit, all of which maintained good Every month, our pub teams are tasked with covenant headroom against the key Debt Service Cover Ratio driving sales on specific dishes or side orders which DSCR throughout the year.
Additionally, the Punch A and Punch enhance the guest experience and grow profit.
B securitisations met their Restricted Payment Condition RPC This incentive programme has proved successful tests throughout the year resulting in cash being available for with our top performing Team Players achieving upstream from the securitisations.
The cash held in the Spirit as much as 574% of their target uplift in sales.
securitisation, following Spirit falling below the RPC test at the last year end, has been used to repay debt within the Spirit securitisation.
However, in the light of the challenging trading conditions we have continued to review our debt levels and looked at opportunities to increase cash flow and repay debt by taking action to reduce costs, refocus capital expenditure and realise value from the disposal of non core assets.
During the year we completed a review and subsequent consultation process of our support centre functions in order to reduce cost and simplify our organisational structure.
This completes a two year programme and annualised support costs are now running at c. 65m compared to c. 95m two years ago.
Capital expenditure in the current year has been scaled back, with 93m of spend in the year 2008: 136m.
Our ongoing The Rising Sun, Macclesfield.
divestment programme has progressed extremely well.
We have disposed of 800 pubs largely from the non core estate, realising proceeds of 414m, at an average multiple of not less than 10 times EBITDA.
These disposals were immediately earnings accretive after retiring Group debt.
While we continue to look at further disposal opportunities, we will only do so where such actions are in the best interests of shareholders.
com Our strong operational cash flow, together with our successful disposals programme, has enabled the balance sheet to be substantially strengthened.
Since the beginning of the financial year we have repaid 708m of debt, 698m of which was ahead of schedule, at a cost of 473m.
Our actions in repaying certain tranches of debt has helped maintain headroom in all of our financial covenants.
Additionally, on 3 July 2009 we announced that our placing and open offer had been successfully completed raising net funds of 354m.
These funds are being used to facilitate the repayment of the Groups Convertible Bonds due December 2010.
As a result of these actions, net debt has been reduced by more than 1bn, or 24%, since the beginning of the year.
The nominal value of year end net debt amounted to 3.47bn 2008: 4.53bn representing a multiple of 6.7 times 2008: 7.3 times our reported pre-exceptional EBITDA.
c. 200m Looking forward, we expect to continue to reduce the level of debt through retained cash generation and further non core disposals, expected to be c. 200m in the 2010 year.
While recent trading continues to be in line with our expectations, given the lack of visibility over future trading in a challenging market environment, there could be circumstances where forecast revenues or cash flows are lower than expected.
In the event that any shortfall cannot be covered by existing covenant headroom, then the Group would consider using funds provided by the capital raising to support securitisation performance.
Company advisers Following the recapitalisation of the Group in the year, culminating with the successful equity raising, the Board has taken the opportunity to consider the best combination of financial advisers and brokers to support the Group going forward.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs will act as joint Brokers and Financial Advisers with Numis Securities acting as Specialist Broker.
Current trading and outlook Trading since the year end has continued in line with management expectations.
The continuing challenging market in which we operate makes forecasting difficult and while we are confident of the longer term prospects for the Group, we remain cautious over the near term due to the lack of visibility on trading outlook.
15 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 further non core disposals expected in the next financial year.
