Operations review Latin America 12 Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The gold of the Incas When the Peruvian brewer, Backus, Key focus areas joined the SABMiller group as part Further enhance the beer categorys of the 2005 Bavaria transaction, the appeal across consumer segments companys brands were mostly in and occasions the crowded mainstream segment.
Increase share of alcohol, capitalising The portfolio lacked a distinctive, on well differentiated brand portfolios local premium beer.
Optimise and extend distribution network and sales reach Research showed that of all the Pursue operational excellence brands in the Backus portfolio, and efficiency in our businesses, the one with the most potential optimising resources and costs for a premium positioning was Cusquea.
The reason was partly its exotic origins in Cusco capital of the Incas and partly its international cachet Cusquea was, and is, exported to the Financial summary USA and UK under the banner, The gold of the Incas.
1 2 Group revenue US$m EBITA US$m EBITA margin % But Cusquea, at the time, barely 5,495 2009 1,173 2009 21.4 2009 warranted a premium ranking.
Although the non-returnable bottle 5,251 2008 1,071 2008 20.4 2008 sold at a premium in Lima, most of 5% 10% Cusqueas sales were mainstream priced and limited to its home 3 territory in the south of the country.
Sales volumes hl 000 Its bottles were old and scuffed Lager Soft drinks Soft drinks organic and the original recipe had been compromised to save costs.
The business reinstated the original 1 Including share of associates.
2 In 2009 before net exceptional credits of US$45 million 2008: net exceptional charges of US$61 million being profits on disposal recipe and installed new water of the Colombian water business and the Bolivian soft drinks operations of US$89 million net of integration and restructuring costs treatment plants to guarantee the of US$31 million and a US$13 million charge in respect of litigation.
3 Volume figures have been restated for the prior period following the revision of the groups volume definitions.
Further details are purity of the Andean water used provided in the Chief Financial Officers review on page 32. in the product.
It also created an innovative, engraved bottle Latin Americas initiatives to develop consumer spending.
GDP growth for the depicting the precisely carved, increasingly differentiated brand portfolios quarter to December 2008 slowed sharply interlocking stones of an Inca and to enhance sales activities resulted in a to -0.7% from 7.6% in 2007.
National retail temple the message being rising share of beer within the alcohol market.
sales fell by 4% and industrial output fell that the magic is in the details.
Our brands demonstrated resilience in tough by 13% in February versus the prior year.
consumer and economic environments in Despite the volume decline, we gained The marketing, too, was innovative.
Colombia and Central America while share of the alcohol market throughout the Although premium, the relaunched favourable trading conditions and improved year with March reaching a record high of Cusquea is positioned as a beer market execution in Peru and Ecuador 68%, up 400 bps on the prior year.
Poker, for anyone who wants to celebrate.
Pilsen and Aguila Light all recorded healthy Initially adopted by higher socioContinued robust pricing and productivity growth.
The Aguila brand benefited from economic groups, it has started enhancements offset increased commodity the introduction of the 225ml bottle in to be enjoyed by consumers at costs, resulting in an improvement in EBITA the northern part of the country.
Premium all social levels as distribution has margin of 100 bps and EBITA growth of volumes grew by 12%, driven by 10% extended to non-premium outlets 10%.
The Brisa water brand in Colombia growth of Club Colombia and a strong and availability has increased.
and the soft drinks bottling operations performance by Redds following its launch Now the first or second choice in Bolivia were sold realising a profit of in late 2007.
Marketing expenditure declined of over 80% of consumers, US$89 million.
Reduced capital expenditure following several years of significant brand Cusquea has emphatically across the region improved cash generation.
renovations and launches while strong claimed the national premium In response to economic conditions, the pricing, beneficial mix and cost productivity segment as its own.
region embarked on a number of improved EBITA margin.
restructuring programmes during the year.
In Peru lager volumes grew 9%, despite Following several years of strong growth, a slowdown in the fourth quarter.
Market lager volumes in Colombia declined 6% share ended the fourth quarter 400 bps reflecting the economic recession in the ahead of the prior year due to the successful country, high interest rates and depressed positioning of Pilsen Trujillo as a national SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Operations review 13 Operations review: Latin America continued Malt drink brand continues to evolve Colombias Pony Malta is a category-leading, non-alcoholic, malt beverage competing directly with carbonated soft drinks, juices and dairy beverages.
Following the principles of SABMillers Marketing Way, the Colombian business continued the brands evolution in 2008 by positioning the product as a natural balance between nutrition and refreshment.
The challenge, then, was to differentiate the brand from rival categories while appealing to audiences with different priorities children and young people who mainly drink it for refreshment and their mothers who value its nutritional properties.
The resulting campaign mixed traditional advertising with point-of-sale merchandising, prize giveaways and multi-media promotions.
Initiatives included the Pony Futbol event involving more than 25,000 young footballers around the country.
In the year to 31 March 2009, the brand increased its sales volumes by 3.4%.
Having consolidated its position as number two in Colombias carbonated soft drink category, after Coca-Cola, Pony Malta is well placed to continue growing.
Our premium brand distinctly premium and the pack was Cusquea also performed well with volume extended to include a new 550ml bottle 59% growth of 59% and market share growth of resulting in premium sector growth of over 280 bps.
A price increase introduced across 100% for the year.
Premium brands now most of our brands in March 2009 reflects account for 8% of our portfolio.
The launch Volume growth of Cusquea the strength of our lager portfolio in a very of Conquer, a new mainstream brand, in the competitive market, while an earlier 9% second half of the year had a promising start.
in Peru increase on Pilsen Trujillo followed our The flagship mainstream brand Pilsener competitive success in the economy continued to perform well, following its segment.
We launched a new brand, Quara, renovation last year, with growth of 13%.
in March 2009 aimed at female consumers 37% but with potential appeal to all consumer Panamas lager volumes were level with segments.
The second half of the year last year.
Strong performance from Balboa, benefited from improved route to market following its relaunch in 2008, and our Growth of non-alcoholic malt and direct store delivery.
super premium brands offset the softer beverages in Panama performance of Atlas.
Price increases were Our Ecuador business continued to perform taken selectively on lager to offset increased well benefiting from brand renovation, commodity costs.
Soft drinks volumes grew improved route to market and sales 9% with sparkling soft drinks up 5%, led execution, investment in refrigeration and by the Schweppes brands and PET growth the introduction of national pricing.
These while non-alcoholic malt beverages grew improvements, together with greater 37%, supported by upgraded brand imagery disposable income following two increases and the introduction of a new PET pack.
in the national minimum wage, grew lager volumes by 14%.
In the premium segment, Operations in Honduras had a challenging the Club brand was repositioned as more year with the US economic slowdown 14 Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our Ecuador business continued to perform well with the help of renovated brands, better sales execution, investment in refrigeration, streamlined distribution and the introduction of national pricing.
affecting remittances and local unemployment rising to 28%.
Disposable Streamlined distribution cuts prices income has been impacted, particularly in and raises volumes the fourth quarter.
Lager volumes were level When SABMiller first entered Ecuador through its subsidiary, Cervecera Nacional, with prior year despite good growth in the one of its priorities was to streamline the super premium segment which offset some distribution system.
volume loss from our Imperial brand.
Lager prices were increased on average by 8% Previously, the companys 120 independent distributors collected their stock direct to help absorb commodity price increases.
from the brewery and marked up the price Investment in refrigeration continued in the to the retailer depending on transport second half, embedding the cold beer culture costs.
The result was inconsistent pricing in the trade.
Soft drinks volumes grew 3% that was often highest in the poorer, more driven by 7% growth in Tropical, the launch remote regions.
The company introduced of Coca-Cola Zero and new Coca-Cola single, national prices and streamlined multi-serve PET packages.
Under the new system, on soft drinks offset marginally negative mix distributors no longer come to the brewery driven by higher sales of non-returnable to collect their orders.
Instead, a third-party logistics company transports the beer to the family packs.
distributors warehouse while the distributor concentrates on his own franchise area In El Salvador we relaunched the mainstream and meets specified service and efficiency Pilsener brand with more attractive packaging standards.
Other improvements include the and a new 330ml returnable bottle.
Despite introduction of carbon-efficient vehicles the success of the relaunch, tight economic and a cut in overall distances travelled, conditions led to a decline in lager volumes all helping to reduce fossil fuel emissions of 6%.
Soft drinks volumes were level with and save costs.
Thanks to these and other improvements, SABMiller has met its pledge to bring down the price of beer, increase its penetration of rural areas and raise volumes.
Having also carried out a detailed segmentation of its 110,000 customers, Cervecera Nacional is in a much better position to deliver the right brands and point of sale material to the right outlets by the most efficient route.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Operations review 15
