Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 17:06 Page 20 20 Our work includes: Civil Government Border protection Prisons management Welfare to work IT and IT-enabled services Government web portal management 2009 Revenue Education and childrens services Environmental services Health management and 1,556m hospital support 39% of Group Revenue Management consultancy In Civil Government, our work In our existing Cyclamen border security encompasses sectors including home contract, while start up has taken longer affairs, welfare to work, integrated than expected, we expect to complete the services, education and childrens roll-out of this system, which will provide services, healthcare, ICT and BPO, protection against the illegal importation of and consulting.
In the US, we provide radioactive materials, in 2010.
This leading support to a number of civil government edge capability, part of the UK Governments agencies through our records counter-terrorism strategy, will be operated management and IT capabilities.
by the UK Border Agency and maintained by Serco.
In the UK, we were selected as preferred Home affairs bidder for contracts to provide and operate In home affairs, our customers are seeking two new prisons in the UK, at Belmarsh to improve efficiency, increase capacity, West, London, and Maghull, Liverpool, and to ensure positive outcomes for those with a combined value to us of around in their care.
Our track record of providing 600m over 26 years.
We expect to sign secure and cost-effective services, which these contracts by summer 2010, and promote rehabilitation and enhance care, construction is expected to be completed resulted in a number of significant contract in the second half of 2011. awards in 2009.
Also in the UK, the expansion of two of In Australia, we signed a new five-year Our track record of our existing prisons has progressed well.
AUS$370m contract with a four-year At HMP Dovegate, construction to add a providing secure and costextension option with the Australian further 260 cells and associated activity Government Department of Immigration and other buildings was completed on effective services, which and Citizenship DIAC to transform its budget and ahead of programme, while immigration services across the country.
promote rehabilitation and similar works at HMP Lowdham Grange Since the successful completion of the are nearing completion as expected.
enhance care, resulted transition from the existing service provider The high quality and value of the service in November, we have implemented a full in a number of significant we provide was also recognised during the programme of activity for the people in our year with HMP Lowdham Grange ranked contract awards in 2009. care, including educational programmes fifth out of all 138 prisons in the UK estate and language tuition with the involvement in the National Offender Management of community groups and volunteers, and Services Measuring the Quality of Prisoner are continuing our work on upgrading their Life survey, and Hassockfield Secure living environment.
We are also discussing Training Centre being awarded the British with DIAC arrangements to further expand Safety Council Sword of Honour for its capacity on Christmas Island.
In the second half of the year, we signed We also expanded other services in the a new contract with DIAC to transform the home affairs market.
We extended our operation of immigration residential Electronic Monitoring contract in England housing and immigration transit and Wales by two years, securing additional accommodation.
The five-year contract is revenue of around 70m, and won a fiveestimated to be valued at AUS$45m and year contract valued at over 7m to commenced on 31 January 2010. provide electronic monitoring equipment into Poland.
In border security and control, we extended our contract, known as Mycroft, to provide infrastructure and intelligence applications to the UK Border Agency and other Home Office agencies.
The new contract is valued at around 34m over its five-year term.
Also in the UK, as part of the Trusted Borders consortium, we have now successfully delivered the first capability piece for e-Borders, allowing the processing of over 100 million passengers a year, and are providing infrastructure to support the next stages of this key programme.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:28 Page 21 Our performance 21 Our work in home affairs includes electronically monitoring offenders right and running prisons in the UK, Australia and Germany far right.
Together... we improve immigration services Our work for DIAC also demonstrates another aspect of the Australian Department of Immigration way we work.
We aim to be good neighbours, integrating and Citizenship with local communities, understanding their sensitivities and In 2009, we signed a contract with the Australian Department ensuring our values are lived locally.
of Immigration and Citizenship DIAC, to transform its seven immigration centres.
We created a compelling offering for our Employing local people is an important part of our community customer by bringing together skills and capabilities from involvement.
At the four immigration centres on Christmas different parts of Serco.
We run similar centres in the UK and Island, a remote location in the Indian Ocean, we have combined our operational expertise from these with an in-depth increased local employment by nearly one-fifth.
On the day knowledge of the Australian market and DIACs requirements.
we began running the centres, 13 newly-trained Christmas Island residents started work as Client Service Officers CSOs, The partnership between our UK home affairs and Australian caring for people in detention.
This is a vital role as we focus businesses dates back several years, and our other notable on the wellbeing of people in detention.
The centres now successes from it include our contracts to run Acacia and employ 85 of the islands 900 residents with recruitment Borallon Prisons.
We have since won a second contract with ongoing.
Flying in fewer staff from the mainland is a step DIAC, to transform the operation of immigration residential towards providing sustainable employment on the island, housing and transit accommodation in four capital cities and boosting the local economy and offering our new employees will create a new experience of caring for people in detention.
career opportunities and development at home.
We are now looking to the nearby Cocos Islands, where the male unemployment rate is 65%.
We hope to train a dozen Cocos residents as CSOs to work on Christmas Island.
Recreational facilities at the immigration centre in Perth, Australia.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:28 Page 22 22 Civil Government continued A Community Champion captures information about a grot spot.
Together... we keep our environment clean Our Community Champions have also helped us to improve Community Champions our service.
At their suggestion, we created a web page We provide environmental services to 15 local authorities in where they can report their findings.
By capturing standard the UK.
In doing so, we have learned that the best way to information each time, we can spot trends and work with the keep the local environment clean is to work together with the Council to identify a solution.
Technology will also have an important role to play in helping In partnership with one of our customers, Welwyn Hatfield us work even more closely with communities.
In our contract Borough Council, we have enlisted the help of Community with Charnwood Borough Council, we will be equipping our Champions.
These volunteers tell us about grot spots Community Champions with GPS-enabled personal digital areas suffering from issu es such as heavy litter, graffiti or fly assistants.
These devices will allow them to photograph grot tipping.
We then despatch a clean-up team to fix the problem.
spots and send the picture to us electronically, along with its Working with the community in this way helps us to deal with precise co-ordinates.
This will help us to respond more more incidents, more quickly.
The success of the scheme has efficiently, improving the environment for all the local residents.
encouraged more people to get involved, and we now have 18 Community Champions in Welwyn Hatfield.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:28 Page 23 Our performance 23 Our environmental services include We deliver education services at refuse collection far left and street schools in Walsall and Bradford, UK.
Integrated services We also renewed and expanded our In the second half, as lead for the Together Our integrated services business had a contract with Airbus valued at around for Children and Learners consortium, we successful year, signing a number of new 40m over four years, for the management were awarded a three-year 16m contract contracts to help our customers in both and provision of a range of integrated with the potential for a two-year extension the public and private sector reduce overall services in the UK, almost doubling our by the Department for Children, Schools expenditure and improve service levels in business with Airbus.
We also signed a and Families to provide strategic advisors environmental services, and in health and new four-year contract valued at 24m to help improve childrens services across other facilities.
with Babcock Marine, to provide building every local authority area in England.
and civil maintenance repairs and other In environmental services, we now work services to the naval base and Royal for 15 local authorities in the UK.
Dockyard at Devonport, and associated Healthcare In the second half of the year, we signed UK Ministry of Defence establishments.
Our new partnership in the pathology a new contract with the London Borough market, GSTS Pathology LLP GSTS, of Bexley to provide a full range of In Australia, as previously reported, we made significant progress in its contract, environmental services, including refuse signed contracts valued in aggregate at valued at 250m over ten years to Serco, and recycling collection, commercial waste approximately 12m for facilities to improve Guys and St Thomas NHS and street cleaning.
Our innovative management and maintenance for the Foundation Trusts pathology services.
approach will result in an enhanced City of Melbourne, Docklands Melbourne In its first year, GSTS has implemented standard of cleanliness in residential areas, and the University of Melbourne.
new processes and performance improvements to the efficiency of the management systems, and an  services, and a 40% based costing model which has enabled reduction in the services carbon footprint.
Education and childrens services managers to better understand costs and The contract is for an initial term of 10 We saw further improvements during the capacity utilisation.
This has increased years, with an option to extend for a further year in the results achieved in our existing capacity, allowing expansion of the five years, and is valued at over 160m education services contracts, and business, and improved turnaround times over the full 15 years.
This follows the expanded the scope of our work as a on tests, in some cases by more than award of a new contract to provide refuse, leading private sector provider of education 50%.
GSTS also further expanded its recycling and streetscene services for and childrens services in the UK with new operations by signing a similar contract Charnwood Borough Council in contracts in inspections, strategic advisory with the Bedford Hospitals NHS Trust.
Leicestershire, valued at around 35m for services and training.
a minimum period of seven years.
In 2009, our occupational health business won a number of new contracts with GKN We delivered a further strong improvement We also expanded our presence in other Aerospace, United Utilities, GE and the in examination results in our education integrated services markets during the Student Loan Company.
The business services contracts at Bradford and Walsall, year.
In the UK health market, our new has now relocated to new clinical and with the percentage of pupils achieving contract, with the Plymouth Hospitals NHS operational facilities, and has implemented five A - C grades at GCSE including Trust valued at around 140m for up a new bespoke case management system English and Maths increasing by 4.7% at to ten years, commenced on 1 October.
Bradford and 3.1% at Walsall, compared During the early stages of the contract, to 2.2% nationally.
The improvements we great progress has been made in have delivered in education at Bradford upgrading catering services for staff and have recently enabled the Secretary of visitors, making a step change in cleaning State for Children, Schools and Families to services including the introduction of lift the Government direction.
The Council innovative microbiological testing of In Bexley, our innovative is planning to take strategic control of cleanliness standards, and improving the education services following the end of provision of catering serving 1,000 patients approach to environmental our contract in July 2011, but we are a day.
supporting the Council in exploring the services will result in an best ways to deliver operational services enhanced standard of in the future.
cleanliness in residential In the first half of the year, we signed a areas, improvements to new six-year, 55m contract in the UK with Ofsted to deliver inspection services the efficiency of the to schools, further education colleges, and work-based learning organisations environmental services, across central England.
Since its start in and a 40% reduction in the September, we have successfully completed over 1,000 inspections.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:28 Page 24 24 Civil Government continued We help long-term unemployed people into sustainable jobs.
Together... we get people back to work The model is also transparent and helps to build trust Welfare to work by allowing the Government to see the performance of We have developed a pioneering strategy to support the individual subcontractors.
Flexible New Deal FND, the UK Governments flagship initiative to help long-term unemployed people into In addition, we will deliver more sustained jobs at a sustainable work.
lower cost because our model directs resources to those organisations best placed to support jobseekers.
This a new market for Serco and so far we have won We co-ordinate and manage our partners, allowing them contracts in the North West, Wales and the West Midlands.
to concentrate on what they do best service delivery.
Our unique strategy is to bring together a network of partners to deliver all front-line services, drawing on Finally, we work alongside other strategic partners, including the best national providers and integrating them effectively local authorities, regional development agencies and with local, specialist, community-based organisations.
employers, to ensure that FND complements, rather than duplicates, existing employment and training provision.
Working together has several advantages.
Our customers have access to a broad range of service providers, each The most important benefit, though, is for the long-term with different capabilities.
We create a programme that suits unemployed people we help.
By working together, we and their circumstances and draws on specialist support when our service-delivery partners will support more than 130,000 needed, such as debt counselling and vocational training.
We have started the process Our model allows small organisations to benefit from large by staffing our new call centre in Rhyl with people who were government contracts, which they could not bid for long-term unemployed.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:28 Page 25 Our performance 25 Our three Flexible New Deal contracts Our BPO business in India provides help long-term unemployed people into customer services, database sustainable work by providing a management and back office services programme of tailored support in this fast growing country.
including career planning and job search advice far left and left.
Welfare to work IT and BPO While our business in India had a challenging Welfare to work is a significant new market In IT and BPO, we further expanded our year given the difficult conditions in the supporting jobseekers in their return to work.
presence in the UK local authority market global financial services market, we have by signing a new contract, valued at 44m been encouraged by the interest we have We signed new Flexible New Deal over 11 years, to manage Peterborough seen in the developing market for public contracts covering three regions, valued in City Councils ICT Services.
Our innovative services in this fast-growing country, aggregate at 400m-500m, with the UK approach will enable an investment of including in areas such as rail, aviation, Department for Work and Pensions, to around 6m in the Councils ICT service at health and education, and our expertise in support people who have been no additional cost to them.
We will advise models such as public-private partnerships.
unemployed for more than 12 months to on and implement improvements that will find sustainable work.
streamline the way services are delivered to residents, and realise efficiencies for the As prime contractor, we are delivering Consulting Council by taking advantage of our these services through our local networks Our consulting business performed well and sophisticated procurement techniques.
We of successful, established providers, improved its profitability in a competitive will also provide new ICT facilities as part of including private, public and third sector market.
During the year, we built six expert a modernisation programme that will organisations.
They provide people with service lines: Performance Transformation: continually improve council services.
tailored support, including career planning Operational Efficiency: IT Advisory and and job search advice and specialist Transformation: Procurement: Organisation The value of the support we provide to services such as debt advice, top-up and Leadership: and Programme Leadership small and medium-sized enterprises in the training and confidence building.
These service lines UK under our Business Link contracts was differentiate our offering in the marketplace recognised during the year through the We began the delivery of our Flexible New and enhance our ability to enter new markets award of a new contract to provide Deal contracts on time in October 2009, through the provision of sector specific Business Link services to the South East and referrals have increased in the first expertise.
Consulting also continued to of England Development Agency, in a part of 2010, reflecting the growth in benefit from its position on a number of contract that is valued at around 80m unemployment in early 2009.
Job outcome government frameworks and programmes, over three years with a two-year extension performance is tracking ahead of target, and to leverage its expertise in parts of option, and by expansion of our existing with our highest performing providers Serco, making a significant contribution contracts with the South West Regional already achieving a good early success to winning contracts and assuring their Development Agency valued at rate of over 30% of their first jobseeker successful delivery.
In North America, we renewed a number of existing contracts, including with the US Department of Homeland Securitys US Citizenship and Immigration Services, to provide records processing support at its National Benefits Center valued at approximately US$190m over a period of up to five years.
In Canada, while examination volumes at our Driver Examination Service contract in Ontario In welfare to work, we are were affected in the second half of the year by an industrial dispute, this was resolved tracking ahead of target, towards the end of the year.
The service has performed strongly so far in 2010, and with our highest we are on track to clear the backlog of performing providers outstanding examinations.
already achieving a good In Europe, we expanded our business supporting IT, space and science through early success rate of over a number of contract wins with European 30% of their first institutions, the European Space Agency and at CERN, with a combined value jobseeker referrals into of 93m.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 17:06 Page 26 26 Our work includes: Defence Command control systems Defence establishments management Economic cost analysis Logistics consulting Marine services 2009 Revenue Port security Risk and safety management Secure IT support 1,020m Through-life capability management 26% of Group Revenue Training and personnel services We are a major provider of operational We continued to broaden the scope of our support services to the armed forces work supporting the US Navy.
Activity under of the UK, US, Canada, Germany and our Sea Enterprise contract, providing IT Australia.
We provide training, network support to ships and facilities, engineering and operational support, increased by nearly 50% in the year.
maintain strategic defence assets, and In the second half, using our expertise deliver cost analysis, human resources, developed with the US Army, we won a systems engineering, safety assurance new contract, valued at US$55m over and risk management services.
five years, to support identification card administration throughout the United We have a strong track record of States.
We also won a contract, valued at improving productivity and reducing US$15m over its one-year base period the cost of customer operations, while plus four one-year option periods, under improving operational availability which we will provide mobile hospitals and capability.
for military, humanitarian and disaster relief operations.
North America We renewed two important contracts with In North America, we provide information the US Navy.
Under our SeaPort-e contract, services, technology and network we will provide logistical support for the solutions, and enterprise management, management of hazardous material engineering, logistics and personnel products and chemicals, supporting 15 support primarily to the US Government.
The acquisition of SI at the end of 2008 The contract has a one-year base period has significantly expanded our capabilities with four one-year option periods and is and broadened our customer base, and valued at approximately US$66m, inclusive we now serve all branches of the US of the options.
Under the Navys N1 support armed forces.
contract, valued at US$60m over five years, we will also continue to provide management During the year we expanded our work support for Manpower Personnel Training The acquisition of SI at across all branches of the armed forces and Education programs.
the end of 2008 has and were appointed to a number of significant indefinite delivery indefinite In our work for the US Army, we were significantly expanded quantity IDIQ contract vehicles during awarded 78 task orders under our HR the year giving us, as one of a number of our capabilities and Solutions IDIQ during 2009.
These were award winners, the opportunity to compete valued in total at US$196m, of which broadened our customer for task orders.
These included a task order under which we base, and we now serve We also saw a significant expansion of will assist soldiers and their families all branches of the US our work supporting the Air Force Space who are geographically dispersed make Command and other military commands connections with services and support armed forces.
under our C4I2TSR engineering and located back at home.
This task order technical support contract.
During the has a one-year term and is valued at year, we won US$131m of task orders approximately US$17m, more than under this contract, which enables the double the size of the previous order.
Department of Defense and civilian government agencies to procure a full We were also awarded a contract with the range of services for mission-critical and US Army to support the closure of bases in high-priority IT systems.
We also saw a Iraq, which is valued at US$30m over three similar expansion in one of our intelligence years, and were awarded a new contract agency programmes, which nearly with the US Army Research Laboratory doubled in size.
to provide automation, information, and technology services, with a potential value of US$8m over a one-year base period with four one-year options.
We also renewed a contract to provide access card services for the US Army at around 70 locations worldwide, issuing approximately 1.1 million cards annually.
The contract, which Serco has held since 2001, is valued at US$9.4m over one year.
Our performance Layout 1 26 03 2010 10:11 Page 27 Our performance 27 We support essential satellite communications technology for the US Department of Defense far left.
Our contract in the US to run the Wounded Warrior Call Center helps ill and injured marines, sailors and their families.
Together... we keep the armed forces connected Our people have been recognised for their expertise and US Military support responsiveness, earning excellent performance ratings An important part of our strategy is to make acquisitions from the customer for the last eight years.
which bring us new skills and take us into new markets, so that together we have a stronger platform for growth.
We have also developed technical reference documentation, which needs to keep pace with new The 2008 acquisition of SI in the United States significantly technology, system updates requested by the customer expanded our capabilities and broadened our customer and changes in the way our customer performs its mission.
By developing and co-ordinating changes together with the Bringing SI into Serco has, for example, made us an satellite operators, we make sure our customer gets what it industry leader in developing technical documentation and needs, when it needs it.
training for the US Department of Defense communication Together with US Air Force instructors, we created a satellite system.
Our products and services help ensure technically demanding training course for officers in the that these satellites provide vital communications to US space operations squadrons.
We held a continuous and allied forces worldwide.
dialogue with the instructors, so that we could deliver We work directly with the operational squadrons, the exactly what they required.
As a result, these materials government program office and other contractors.
were the first ever to be used directly, as delivered, in This ensures that we meet our customers expectations classroom and performance training by US Air Force and deliver technically accurate services that fit the instructors.
Our services help ensure satellites provide US and allied forces with vital communications.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:29 Page 28 28 Defence continued For the US Marines, we were awarded a new contract to provide psychological health outreach and referral services for Marine Reservists returning from combat zones or other assignments, and their families.
The contract is valued at US$9m over three years.
For the US Air Force, we were awarded a task order to provide its Materiel Command with the capability to migrate data from legacy systems into a modernised integrated environment.
This new task order has a six-month base period plus a one-year option and is valued at approximately US$25m over its full term.
We were appointed to two new multiple awarded government-wide IDIQ procurement programmes, GSA Alliant and STOC II, giving us the opportunity to compete, as one of a number of award winners, for task orders on these programmes.
Alliant has a ceiling value of US$50bn over a five-year base period and one five-year option period.
We recently secured our first task order under this program, to support US Customs and Border patrol with a system to enable port officers to rapidly close borders to vehicular traffic.
The US Army Program Executive Office for Simulation, Training and Instrumentation Omnibus Contract STOC II has a ceiling value of US$17.5bn over a ten-year period.
In the second half, we renewed a number of IDIQ contracts with the US Navy, Growth in our UK defence including two IDIQs for personnel services business continues to be with a potential value of over US$100m for Serco, and another with a potential value driven by our excellent of up to US$70m for Serco over a five-year track record of retaining period, enabling us to compete for US Navy task orders in program management, and growing our existing logistics, financial management and administrative support services.
business, and winning a number of smaller and medium-sized contracts to support the UK armed forces.
Our performance Layout 1 26 03 2010 09:59 Page 29 Our performance 29 Our support for the Royal Air Force includes providing aircraft refuelling services far left, air traffic control left, and providing training for pilots below left.
Our services for the Australian Navy include supporting innovative training programmes at HMAS Watson for combat, ship handling and navigation.
United Kingdom and Europe We were also appointed by the Ministry Growth in our UK defence business of Defence as part of the Paradigm continues to be driven by our excellent track consortium to supply the Cabinet Office record of retaining and growing our existing with crisis management facilities and key business, and winning a number of smaller crisis management centres across England, and medium-sized contracts to support the Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland with UK armed forces, enhance their operational a High Integrity Telecommunications effectiveness and increase efficiency.
Our role, valued at 1.2m over the first 12 months, will be to install Towards the end of the year, we were the HITS equipment and provide planned appointed preferred bidder for, and since and unplanned maintenance support for the year end have signed, a multi-activity the HITS systems throughout the UK.
contract to provide services at RAF High Australia Wycombe and RAF Halton.
We have Since the year end, we have been In Australia, we were pleased to renew our provided services including management appointed preferred bidder to manage contract at HMAS Watson for the provision and administration, general engineering the UKs Emergency Planning College on of professional services to the Australian and military transport, at RAF Halton since behalf of the Cabinet Office in a 15-year Navy, supporting innovative training 1997.
With this contract, we will now have contract worth over 55m.
programmes used in naval bases in New a presence at RAF High Wycombe, which South Wales, Victoria and Western is the home of Headquarters Air Command.
This places Serco at the heart of UK civil Australia to train military personnel in The combination of services at both sites resilience, which includes planning combat, ship handling and navigation.
will provide us with the ability to deliver responses to disruption from natural Under the five-year contract, valued at synergies across both stations through an events and major accidents, and builds on AUS$10m, we will continue to provide innovative and flexible solution.
The our excellent track record in defence and software engineering support to existing combined seven-year contract with an emergency training provision.
As commercial electronic naval training, and design new, additional three option years is valued at partner to the Cabinet Office, we will improved systems.
up to 100m over the full ten years.
provide and manage all services at the College, and focus on both growing the In other contract renewals, the UK Ministry business and enhancing its reputation as of Defence reappointed us to provide the UKs leading provider of emergency support services across all its Air planning training.
Surveillance and Control Systems sites, valued at 25m over the full eight years, In Germany, we secured 39m in new and we were successful in our rebid to business and growth, and renewals of provide essential logistical services to the existing contracts.
Wins have included: US Air Force at three bases at Alconbury, contracts with the German Ministry of Molesworth and Croughton, valued at Defence to provide a mobile military 10m over five years.
hospital valued at 14m and to provide technical logistic services valued at 3.5m: In smaller contracts, we were awarded a new 3.1m contract with NATOs an extension to our contract to support, Consultation, Command and Control operate and maintain the UK Ministry of Agency to support NATOs initiative to Defences mobile underwater targets at improve data and voice communication the British Underwater Test and Evaluation links between operating units from the Centre, Kyle of Lochalsh, Scotland, and various member states: and contracts to Weymouth, Dorset valued at up to 7.3m provide a deployable prison for the over 4 years.
German military police and deliver the systems integration of deployable command and control containers for close proximity defence systems at German MoD field camps.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 17:06 Page 30 30 Our work includes: Transport Air traffic services Heavy rail operations and maintenance Light rail operations and maintenance Traffic control and transport systems Transport consultancy 2009 Revenue 789m 20% of Group Revenue We are a major provider of transport Although services have been disrupted by services to the UK and markets in these works, reliability has averaged above Australia, the Middle East and US.
95% this year and customer satisfaction We operate heavy and light rail systems, with the service has remained above 90% are a leader in the development of throughout.
"Serco Docklands was also integrated traffic management systems, successful at the Light Rail Awards this and are one of the worlds largest year, with the Community Ambassador private sector suppliers of air traffic Scheme winning ""Best Customer Initiative"" control services."
for its work through local ambassadors in East Londons communities.
We are broadening our capabilities into other modes of transport, including In Rail Technology, we continue to make marine transportation services through progress on our contract to develop an our operation of the Woolwich Ferry, Asset Inspection Train that measures and bicycles with our contract to aspects of the London Underground operate the London Cycle Hire Scheme.
network, such as track profile, rail wear and tunnel dimensions.
While this has taken longer than expected, we are now looking Light rail forward to commissioning the train and The operational phase of our 500m further enhancing its measurement capability.
contract with the Dubai Government Roads and Transport Authority RTA to operate and maintain the first two lines of Heavy rail the new Dubai Metro commenced in the Northern Rail and Merseyrail, Sercos two second half of 2009, with the Metro joint ventures with Abellio formerly Nedinaugurated on schedule on 9 September.
Railways, delivered excellent operational Our start up has been very successful, performance and continued growth.
with the Metro having carried over 10 Northern Rail carried 85 million passengers million passengers to the end of January during the year, an increase of 34% since 2010, and achieving very high levels of the start of our contract in December performance, with the latest measures in 2004, and continued to improve December and January showing 100% punctuality, with the number of trains on availability and 99.5% punctuality with time in 2009 improving by 2.5% to 91.8%.
approximately 80,000 passenger journeys Northern Rail was also the first train per day.
operator to be awarded the highly On the Docklands Light Railway DLR, prestigious Sir George Earle Trophy for passenger numbers increased by 3 million outstanding health and safety to over 69 million, helped by the opening of management performance at the 2009 Woolwich Arsenal Station in early 2009.
Royal Society for the Prevention The final phase of work to complete the of Accidents awards.
platform extension and upgrade work for In the second half of the year, Merseyrail three-carriage trains to run between Bank was one of the first two train operating and Lewisham has now been completed, companies ever to achieve over 96% of with longer trains to be introduced on this trains on time for a continuous 12-month route throughout 2010.
Preparation work is period, a performance which was also now under way at other stations to enable achieved for 2009 as a whole.
In addition, them to accommodate three-carriage Merseyrail also gained an overall customer trains from the end of 2010, and work on The Docklands Light Railway carried satisfaction score of 91%, the highest in the Stratford International extension is over 69 million passengers in 2009. the industry.
expected to be completed by the summer.
Our Australian rail operation, Great Southern Rail, responded quickly to a weaker tourist travel market with enhanced marketing and reduced schedules.
Although yields fell, bookings were only slightly below last years levels, with the service also benefiting from the successful introduction of the Platinum service on the Ghan train in late 2008.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:29 Page 31 Our performance 31 We brought together people, skills and experience from around the world to ensure that the Dubai Metro enjoyed a successful start far left and left.
A Serco customer service agent on board the new Dubai Metro.
Together... we get Dubai moving While such a multinational workforce brings challenges, our Dubai Metro values have determined our approach.
For example, part of The Dubai Metro, which is the first in the Middle East, our training helps to foster respect for, and help our people opened on 9 September 2009.
We operate and maintain it embrace, the cultures of their colleagues and Dubai.
We on behalf of the Dubai Government Roads and Transport also provide high-quality accommodation for our people, Authority RTA.
while free wireless internet allows them to stay in touch We brought together skills and experience from around the with their families.
world to help us win the contract and operate the Metro, The outcome has been a successful start for the Metro.
combining our local understanding of the Middle East Despite a very tight deadline, the system opened on time.
market and the RTAs needs with our global transport and Since then, it has gone from strength to strength.
Just metro capabilities, exemplified by the award-winning DLR 16 days after it opened, the Metro carried its one millionth in London.
passenger, with this number reaching over ten million by We have also brought people together to deliver excellent the end of January 2010. service.
Because the system is the first in the region, we We are now looking to increase the number of Emiratis had to search internationally for the skills we needed.
As part of this, we are launching a To date, we have employed nearly 2,100 people, including groundbreaking education programme which will help local 900 outsourced colleagues, from 26 countries, with 12% people become the Metros future operators, technical recruited from the local Emirati population our largest specialists, managers and leaders.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:29 Page 32 32 Transport continued Traffic management Other wins in the UK, valued at around Our customers are responding to the 4m in total, included: an expansion to our increasing problem of congestion by National Traffic Control Centre contract: seeking to maximise the capacity of the our appointment as a supplier to the existing road infrastructure through traffic Transport Scotland Consultancy management, and this has driven demand Framework: and a contract with the for our innovative capabilities in 2009.
Highways Agency covering software and systems work on the abnormal loads In the UK, we were appointed as preferred management and website booking system.
bidder for the MF1 contract, valued at up to 12m over three years, to renew We also extended our contract for the communications technology on the Scottish maintenance of Transport for Londons Highways network, including CCTV, TfL Eastern Tunnel management system variable message signs and emergency to the end of September 2010. roadside phones.
In the US, since the year end, we have Since the year end, we have been selected, been awarded two contracts by the State together with our joint venture partner of Georgia Department of Transportation Costain, as one of four delivery partners for GDOT valued in aggregate at around the Highway Agencys Managed Motorway US$55m, adding to our successful In the US, since the year initiative, a major investment programme of operations at the Transportation 2bn to increase capacity through the use Management Center in Atlanta.
Under the end, we have been awarded of traffic control technology and hard GDOT IT Maintenance contract, valued shoulder running, with a total of 34 at around US$50m over five years, we will two transport systems schemes planned over the next ten years.
manage the installation and upkeep of contracts by the State of We will provide consultancy, systems over 1,000 devices that comprise the integration, technology installation and departments Intelligent Transportation Georgia Department of maintenance expertise, and our selection Systems, including several hundred Transportation provides a strong foundation for us to remotely operated traffic cameras as well become a major partner in the Highways as changeable message signs.
separate new contract, we will facilitate the privatisation of GDOTs traveller information hotline.
In Australia we signed a contract, in partnership with mdv, a leader in the development of transport technology solutions, with New South Wales Transport and Infrastructure to transform the way residents access transport information.
Under the contract, we are providing transport journey planning information services in New South Wales through a variety of channels, including a call centre and website.
The contract has a value to Serco of AUS$27m over its five-year term.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:29 Page 33 Our performance 33 Our joint venture to run Merseyrail Our contract to design, build and achieved record levels of punctuality and operate the London Cycle Hire Scheme customer satisfaction in 2009 far left.
is an important step into a new market.
The Ghan, in Australia, introduced its new Platinum service in late 2008 left.
Providing air traffic services at Dubai below.
Cycle hire In the second half of the year, we signed a new six-year contract with Transport for London to design, build and operate the new London Cycle Hire Scheme.
Under the contract, which is valued at approximately 140m, we will design and integrate technology and customer service operations, and provide, operate and maintain 6,000 bicycles for hire in Central London at 400 docking stations.
We have made good progress in the implementation phase of the scheme, with works under way on the building of docking stations across Central London, and on the systems and contact centre.
We have also recruited the first members of the operational team, which will include a number of engineering apprenticeships, helping to develop the skills of young people in the capital.
Civil aviation Since the year end, we have been awarded In addition to the successful renewal and a US Federal Aviation Administration air expansion of our contract with the Dubai traffic control contract valued at around Airports Company for air traffic services US$170m over five years.
Since 1994, at Dubai International Airport, valued at Serco has managed approximately 55 air 245m over ten years, we won a rebid for traffic control towers across the western a contract for the provision of air traffic United States and Alaska and, with this control and electronic engineering services recent win, we will now be responsible for at Abu Dhabi and Al Ain International a total of 64 sites, including new locations Airports, and City Airport at Bateen, as in Hawaii, Guam and Saipan.
well as two additional satellite airports in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
Valued at over 24m for two years, the contract commenced in April 2009.
Serco has also been successful in the rebid for the provision of air traffic control services for Ras Al Khaimahs International Airport, which has a value of over 1.5m for one year.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:30 Page 34 34 In the UK, we provide a wide array of services including occupational and custodial health services and community care far left and left.
Our pathology tests are essential to patient care.
Together... we enhance pathology services businesses complementing the Trusts clinical and Guys and St Thomas and Serco scientific excellence.
Through our joint venture with Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, we are now the UKs largest independent Our partnership is already delivering benefits.
Operational provider of pathology services.
The partnership, called improvements, such as greater clarity of roles and personal GSTS Pathology, is the first of its kind in the National accountability, have enhanced patient service.
screening times, for example, have more than halved and GSTS Pathology introduced its own swine flu test in Pathology is vital to patients health.
decisions about patient care depend on scientific tests carried out in a pathology laboratory, and the 2.5bn NHS As a business, GSTS Pathology is also set to prosper.
In pathology market is growing at up to 10% a year.
At the December 2009, it began work on a ten-year contract to same time, clinical advances and new technology are driving deliver pathology services for Bedford Hospitals NHS Trust.
the need for change in pathology services.
The contract has enabled GSTS Pathology to establish a hub in Eastern England, an area with a number of NHS Together, Serco and the Trust have the right combination of Trusts and hospitals that are seeking to modernise their skills and capabilities to grow in this exciting market, with pathology services.
our expertise in transforming services and developing 3.
Our performance Layout 1 25 03 2010 17:06 Page 35 Our performance 35 Our work includes: Science Materials science Measurement science Nuclear assurance Research establishments management Technical training 2009 Revenue 605m 15% of Group Revenue Serco manages science-based In April we assumed management organisations that are developing and responsibility for the National Nuclear applying scientific knowledge for wealth Laboratory NNL, along with our partners creation, addressing the growing Battelle and Manchester University, and the demand both for low carbon energy and first months of operation saw a seamless innovative solutions to the challenge of transition to the new management team.
climate change, and enabling In July, the UK Government announced the international nuclear safety, assurance creation of a Nuclear Centre of Excellence, and verification.
based at NNL, to help ensure the peaceful Our joint venture at AWE continued to use of nuclear power.
This, coupled with perform strongly, with all contract outputs the world-leading expertise at AWE in the delivered on time and budget, supported fields of disarmament verification and nonby the engineering and management proliferation, places Serco as a significant expertise brought by Jacobs Engineering stakeholder in UK efforts to secure nuclear in its first full year as a shareholder in AWE non-proliferation, disarmament and the Management Limited, alongside Serco and peaceful application of nuclear technology.
We were also pleased to These are issues likely to gain in relevance successfully conclude the periodic pricing during 2010 and beyond as part of the review under our existing 25-year contract, global security agenda.
setting the framework for important During the year, we have continued our investments in skills and facilities at AWE.
work at the National Physical Laboratory Our world-leading nuclear safety and NPL to maximise the impact of the assurance business continued to science we deliver in support of UK strengthen its support to operators of industry.
In 2009 NPL worked with over nuclear plant, both in the civil and defence 2,000 companies, and independent studies nuclear sectors.
During the year, this have shown that the laboratorys work for business continued its growth through a the National Measurement System range of smaller, high-margin contracts, contributes approximately 2bn per year to valued at over 40m.
NPL also continues to contribute with its work Our strong positioning to play a key role in supporting the low carbon economy and enabling nuclear new build was confirmed the health of UK citizens, for example shortly after the year end by our signing a through its work with UK hospitals to contract with Westinghouse, designer of ensure that radiotherapy doses are the AP1000 nuclear reactor currently under measured and targeted effectively.
assessment for the UK's civil nuclear programme.
We will serve as its primary nuclear safety advisor in the UK, leading a team of experts to assist it in completing Step 4 of Generic Design Assessment for the AP1000.
This is a critical stage in the reactor design approval process being conducted by the UK Nuclear Regulators which is due for completion in 2011.
We support government and industry through our management of scientific establishments such as the National Physical Laboratory and the National Nuclear Laboratory above.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:20 Page 36 36 Market opportunities We expect the deficits affecting our and we also see opportunities in areas With our track record of government customers arising from the such as probation services, health, high-quality service global economic crisis to create immigration, and asylum and refugee substantial opportunities for Serco.
Other regions are seeing delivery, we are well Governments around the world are similar pressures, leading to the potential increasingly recognising the benefits of for expansions of existing facilities, placed to help our competition and the use of the private tendering of existing public sector prisons, customers meet sector to improve the quality and efficiency and for the provision of services such as of services and assist recovery from health in the home affairs sector.
demands for better recession and deficits.
In the UK, new The current economic climate and growing services and tackle models are promoting joined-up fiscal pressures are leading the UK government through shared support issues like congestion, Government to seek greater value in two services and a focus on outcomes, areas of significant spend, welfare benefits increasing choice and the potential for us migration, ageing and the National Health Service.
In welfare to deliver benefits to all our stakeholders.
to work, we expect the second round of populations and Around the world, we are seeing 23 Flexible New Deal contracts for a governments learn from our UK terrorism, while further 14 regions to be let in 2010, with experience, and increasingly move contracts valued on average at around improving productivity towards new, more sophisticated 75m.
We expect further opportunities for contracting models, including joint and efficiency.
expansion of our innovative model into ventures, fixed price contracts, franchises, other benefit areas such as Employment PPPs and PFIs, and partnerships with the and Support Allowance.
In health, we voluntary sector.
continue to see further significant Given our substantial capabilities, we opportunities for our joint venture with continue to see good opportunities for Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation growth across a broad portfolio of markets Trust to expand its presence in the and geographies, both from expansion of substantial UK pathology market, and to the scope and scale in our existing develop new models, including contracts and from new contract wins.
In partnerships and franchises, to help new contracts, smaller and medium-sized improve productivity in other areas of the contracts remain an important driver of our health service.
growth, and among larger opportunities, Local authorities in the UK remain under we see a good range of nearer-term significant budgetary and service quality opportunities in 2010, and a substantial pressures, and although they are gaining medium-term and longer-term pipeline.
increasing freedom to allocate resources In home affairs, the UK Government is and set priorities at a local level, protecting looking to increase efficiency and education, police, and health services is productivity in offender management by likely to put additional pressure on other putting some underperforming public essential services which they are expected sector prisons out to competition during to deliver.
We see substantial opportunities in 2010 and beyond for opportunities, driven by this need for contracts to help local authorities address greater efficiency and to achieve positive this challenge, both by transforming the outcomes from detention.
In the UK, the way they operate, as we are doing for Government has announced the Glasgow City Council, and also through commissioning of five new prisons, and increased efficiency in integrated the market testing of five existing prisons, services operations.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:20 Page 37 Our performance 37 In UK education and childrens services, between 2011 and 2012 - the Fleet we continue to build our presence across Outsourced Activities Project to provide national government bodies while training services for the Royal Navy, and consolidating our strong position in local the Armed Forces Recruitment Partnering government services.
Our national presence Project, where we are leading the was significantly boosted through our Prospector Group consortium which inspection services contract with Ofsted, includes Logica and the AMV Group.
and latterly through the award of the In the US, the integration of SIs strategically important Children and capabilities means that we now have Learners Strategic Advisers contract.
We opportunities across a broad range of see potential future opportunities in the customers in the largest government commissioning of educational services, services market in the world, the US and also continue to work with a number Federal Government services market.
A of authorities where we see a requirement major focus for the federal government is for service improvement across modernising and improving the childrens services.
effectiveness of government services In India, we continue to develop our BPO through the upgrade of IT infrastructure, to business and remain encouraged by our make processes more efficient and initial progress and the potential effective, and to ensure security, with opportunities which are developing, both cybersecurity likely to be a priority in 2010 for expansion in the BPO market as rising onwards.
In 2010, we will submit bids for incomes lead to greater demand for work across all branches of the armed services, and in the delivery of forces and a broad range of intelligence public services.
In defence, our customers are addressing In transport, our customers are seeking We expect opportunities in science to be significant budgetary pressures, while safe and cost-effective solutions to the driven by governments need to increase facing the challenge of ensuring that challenges of congestion and urban and efficiency while ensuring that scientific troops in the front line have battle-winning international mass transport and we now skills continue to deliver maximum equipment and support.
In the UK, both of have world-leading expertise across a economic, financial and social benefit, the main political parties are committed to broad range of modes of transport to help particularly in the fields of climate change conducting a Strategic Defence Review, to them.
To leverage our capabilities, which and supporting a sustained economic ensure an affordable and sustainable span metro and heavy rail, traffic and recovery.
In the UK, we are working in outcome.
Serco is well placed to assist roads management, marine, cycle hire and partnership with our customer at the through the application of innovative air traffic control, we have created a Global Department for Business, Innovation and contracting models and methodologies Transport function to grow our presence in Skills, the Royal Society and other that will help to facilitate effective this market and to identify and prioritise organisations to see how science across financial planning.
the significant opportunities we see in the the public sector can be delivered more sector globally.
Given the global nature of The UK MoD is also focused on sustaining efficiently and effectively.
Our leading the transport business, it is also likely that the capability of its armed forces over the position in nuclear safety and assurance the Global Transport function will long term, which is leading to good means that we are well placed to address spearhead our expansion into new organic growth opportunities.
Serco has opportunities in both decommissioning geographies, developing new relationships also been selected to compete for two and new civil nuclear build in the UK and with governments and the private sector in large contracts, due to be awarded overseas markets.
