Directors report Business review Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Charles Sinclair Chairman The fact that we have been able to continue with our high level of capital investment despite these economic conditions is a testament to the strength of the groups balance sheet and our ability to generate cash.
A number of major long-term projects are under way including the restructuring of our meat business in Australia, the combining of Jordans and Ryvita in the UK, the creation of a packaged edible oil joint venture in North America, capacity expansions for Sugar and Ingredients in southern Africa, Europe and China, the building of the Vivergo biofuels facility in the UK and further new stores for Primark across Europe.
Such investment bene ts todays stakeholders but must also serve their interests tomorrow.
Accordingly, our capital investment also addresses reduction in energy and water usage and promotes greater use of renewable fuels in our factories.
The major infrastructure projects, particularly in the developing world, will provide local employment opportunities and a whole range of other social bene ts.
Group revenue increased by 12% to 9.3bn and adjusted operating pro t was up 8% to 720m.
With over 50% of the groups revenue and pro t arising outside the UK, the weakness of sterling had a favourable currency translation effect on these results.
Good trading was delivered by a number of our businesses, most notably from sugar in the UK and Africa, Allied Bakeries and Primark.
However, the dif culties experienced by our Chinese sugar operations and the North American edible oils business, evident in our half year results, held back pro t for the full year.
Primark continues to deliver excellent growth in both revenue and pro t, achieved through strong UK like-for-like sales growth and the addition of further retail selling space.
Whilst there are still many opportunities to extend Primarks estate in the UK and Ireland, expansion into continental Europe represents an exciting and This is my first report to shareholders having succeeded Martin Adamson as substantial growth prospect for this highly successful business.
Chairman in April and I am pleased to be able to report another good performance.
Considerable progress was made in the development of the group during the year Our European sugar operations have emerged from regime reform and pro t is with signi cant capital expenditure, the restructuring of a number of businesses returning to more acceptable levels.
For a relatively modest net investment, we and growth in adjusted earnings per share of 5%.
All of this was achieved against strengthened our position in European sugar with the acquisition of Azucarera Ebro, a background of a worldwide economic slow-down, with many of the countries in the leading sugar producer in Iberia, and the disposal of our smaller sugar business which we operate in recession.
Azucarera will provide EU re ning capacity for cane raws imported from least developed countries and is expected to be earnings accretive after the first year.
Illovo delivered an excellent operating result and continues to explore the signi cant organic expansion opportunities available in Africa.
4 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Chairmans statement A notable landmark in the development of the groups cash generating ability is the achievement of adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of 1bn.
The pro tability of our Chinese sugar businesses was severely affected by low sugar Board changes prices in the first half of the year but these saw some recovery in the second half.
I began my report by referring to Martin Adamsons retirement in April this year.
Pro table development of the beet sugar business in north east China is dependent Martin served on the board for almost ten years, of which more than six were as on agricultural improvements and factory ef ciencies which will take a number of Chairman, and in that time steered the group through a period of considerable years to achieve.
The trading footprint of the group was increased from 16 countries to 44 and our worldwide workforce tripled with the substantial The challenges experienced by our grocery businesses last year from extreme investments in Africa, China and Primark.
Martins extensive business experience movements in commodity costs were not repeated but were replaced instead by and sound judgement have been of immeasurable bene t to the board and the pressures of trading in a recessionary environment.
Although results in the first we greatly appreciate the substantial contribution he has made to the groups half were signi cantly affected by the losses sustained on high-priced US corn oil success over the last decade.
We wish him a long and happy retirement.
futures contracts, the second half performance was much better.
There was some evidence of consumers trading down to cheaper products, but the groups major Employees grocery brands, particularly Kingsmill, held up well.
It is pleasing during a time of worldwide recession and widespread unemployment to be able to report a small increase in the size of our workforce.
The growth of A notable landmark in the development of the groups cash-generating ability the business has resulted in the number of our employees now exceeding 96,000 is the achievement of adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and and I would like to thank them for their dedication and hard work.
Together with a reduction in working capital during the environment over the past year has been dif cult and the success of the group year, re ecting an increased management focus and lower commodity prices, is a tribute to their commitment and enthusiasm.
this provided the funds for net capital expenditure and investment in new businesses of 832m including debt assumed and net of disposals.
Dividends A final dividend of 14.1p is proposed, to be paid on 8 January 2010 to shareholders The events in the financial markets since last year end have turned an accounting on the register on 4 December 2009.
Together with the interim dividend of 6.9p surplus in our fide ned bene t pension schemes last September of 61m into a paid on 3 July 2009, this will make a total of 21.0p for the year, an increase of 4%.
This fide cit is somewhat reduced from the position at the half year and, in the context of the groups resources, is manageable.
It will nevertheless Outlook have a detrimental effect on other financial income in the coming year.
The likely scale and speed of economic recovery remains uncertain, and we are cautious about the outlook for the UK consumer over the next year.
However, we Net debt at the end of the year was 999m despite the substantial level of expect good revenue and operating pro t growth with the bene t of returns from investment.
The completion of the US private placement earlier in the year raised our recent long-term investments and restructuring together with improvement some US$600m, lengthened our debt maturity pro le and diversi ed our sources in our Chinese and US businesses.
Net nancing costs will be higher but we are of nancing.
The group now has a very comfortable level of headroom on its con dent of progress in earnings for the full year.
This provides a sound platform for continued investment.
Charles Sinclair Chairman Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5 Directors report Business review Operating review Operating review George Weston Chief Executive The group delivered satisfactory results at a time when economic uncertainty and declining consumer spending presented our businesses with considerable challenges.
Group revenue increased by 12% to 9.3bn and adjusted operating pro t increased by 8% to 720m.
Sugar, Primark and Ingredients delivered major improvements in pro t, and Agriculture traded well and matched the exceptional performance of last year.
Grocery was more affected and its pro t decline was mainly attributable to long positions in vegetable oil futures taken out in the first half by ACH at values well above market.
Sterlings weakness had a bene cial effect on the translation of pro ts from our overseas businesses.
Over the years we have developed the group through a combination of capital investment, process improvement, building new revenue streams and the acquisition of complementary businesses.
Despite the economic environment, this year proved to be no exception and, if anything, the pace of activity increased with capital investment at a high level.
All of our businesses have been strengthened as a result and are better equipped to deliver growth in the future.
In Sugar, the changes to the EU regime are now behind us and the market has been more stable.
There has been much change and consolidation of producers in recent years.
Our leading positions in the UK and Iberia, together with access to sugars from least developed countries, position us well for the EU market over the next few years.
We expect volume growth from our African and Chinese operations over the coming years.
Illovo has ambitious expansion plans and the doubling of capacity in Zambia was completed this year.
Although pro tability was held back by low prices in China, the addition of another mill in southern China expands this consistently pro table operation.
Some progress was made in the beet sugar business in the north east of China but much remains to be achieved in improving Operating pro t by segment agricultural yields and factory ef ciency.
Sugar 25% Primark had a remarkable year.
Like-for-like growth of 7% demonstrated the strong development of its consumer franchise, particularly in the UK.
The potential of Agriculture 5% continental Europe for the Primark model was even more evident this year and Retail 33% we are committed to expansion in Spain and the Netherlands.
Early signs in Germany and Portugal are encouraging.
Grocery 25% Development of our Grocery businesses was held back by the problems at ACH Ingredients 12% in the first half.
However, it is noteworthy that considerable work was undertaken this year with integration work in our meat business in Australia, Pataks and Operating pro t by geography Blue Dragon, Jordans and Ryvita and Stratas in the US.
Each of these businesses will emerge much stronger.
UK 49% Capacity expansion was the major feature in Ingredients with investment in Americas 12% enzymes, yeast and yeast extracts all of which have demonstrated their growth Asia Paci c 9% potential in recent years.
Europe & Africa 30% A number of long-term capital projects are in progress across the group, many of which are expected to complete during 2010.
They will contribute to the continued growth of our businesses.
6 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Operating review Sugar & Agriculture Over the years we have developed the group through a combination of capital investment, process improvement, building new revenue streams and the acquisition of complementary businesses.
Despite the economic environment, this year proved to be no exception and the pace of activity increased.
In the EU, our UK and Polish businesses increased pro t with good factory SUGAR & AGRICULTURE operating performances, robust sales, the bene t of a strong euro, a reduction in the restructuring levy and favourable energy costs.
Very favourable growing conditions in the UK yielded an excellent beet crop with sugar per hectare at record levels and 1.19 million tonnes of sugar was produced.
Factory operations bene ted from further improvements in energy ef ciency, returns from prior year investments SUGAR Revenue and high sugar extraction rates.
The contribution from the combined heat and 1,575m 2008, 1,267m power generation plants at Bury and Wissington increased with the supply of electricity to the grid at high prices.
The business in Poland delivered a strong Adjusted operating pro t commercial performance which more than offset lower sugar production of 163,000 tonnes.
Restructuring work at our closed factory sites in York, Dobre 189m 2008, 153m and Ostrawite proceeded to plan and the associated renunciation compensation of 116m was received in full from the European Commission in June 2009.
Following the renunciation of quota across the EU in 2008, supply and demand The results from Sugar moved substantially ahead this year of sugar in the market has been broadly balanced.
This has led to more stability for pricing.
The final changes relating to reform of the EU sugar regime took place with both revenue and pro t increasing by 24%.
This was at the beginning of October 2009 and no further changes are anticipated until achieved by a sharp recovery in pro t at British Sugar UK, the next review which is expected to be implemented from October 2015. reversing the trend of declines in recent years, and continued A number of developments during the year strengthened our presence in the EU growth by Illovo which more than offset disappointing results market.
We acquired Azucarera Ebro, the leading sugar producer in Iberia, in April this year.
It operates from four beet factories, three in the north of Spain and one in China.
A sugar re nery is being commissioned on the site of the southern factory, given its proximity to the port of Cadiz, and it will have the capacity to produce 400,000 tonnes of sugar.
The supply of cane raws is expected to be primarily from Illovo.
In August we announced that we had reached agreement to sell our Polish sugar business, the countrys fourth largest producer, to Pfeifer & Langen.
Completion, which is subject to regulatory approval, is expected in late 2009.
During the year British Sugar established a joint venture with Illovo, Mitra Sugar, to source sugars from outside the EU and market them to companies within the EU.
As a result of our leading positions in the UK and now in Iberia, together with access to the sugars of the least developed countries, we have a strong platform for the future.
Illovo delivered an excellent operating result driven by strong sales.
These resulted from higher local market prices, currency translation gains for the operations outside South Africa and by recovery of the world sugar price.
Sugar production was lower than expected at 1.9 million tonnes, with poor weather conditions in South Africa impacting the cane crop and excessive rains and early commissioning dif culties impacting volume throughput at the expanded mill in Zambia.
In contrast Malawi had another excellent year with good production volumes and operating performances.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7 PART OF EVERYDAY LIFE We have built a global sugar business with operations in China, Europe and Africa in which we continue to invest Directors report Business review Operating review Sugar & Agriculture Case study EVERYDAY LIFE IN SUGAR Understanding the bigger picture is an farmers to grow higher value crops, essential component of British Sugar including sugar cane.
Groups successful strategy which But growing crops is only one part of the has seen its revenue grow from 700m story, which is where British Sugar Group to 1.6bn in four years.
Illovo is working closely with local 2005: A prime example of this strategic vision has farmers and smallholders to grow cane, 700m been in its adaptation to the EUs decision which in turn has justi ed the expansion to allow duty-free imports of raw sugar from of the Ubombo factory.
Alongside this the Least Developed Countries LDCs there are plans to generate more renewable from 1 October 2009.
By stimulating trade energy from the cane biomass with the between the EU and many of the worlds surplus electricity feeding into Swazilands poorest countries, this policy is designed national grid.
In Europe, British Sugar and Illovo 2009: At the same time, the European Commission established Mitra Sugar, a trading company also realised that many LDCs lacked the which acts as a bridge between LDC sugar 1.6bn infrastructure to take advantage of these producers seeking to export to the EU and new trading opportunities.
Take Swaziland European re ners.
One of Mitras customers BRITISH SUGAR GROUP HAS for example.
Here subsistence agriculture is Azucarera Ebro, Iberias premier sugar MORE THAN DOUBLED REVENUE IN THE PAST FOUR YEARS employs 70% of the population and company which joined the British Sugar overgrazing, soil depletion and drought Group in April 2009.
Azucareras new are real problems.
re nery at Guadalete comes on stream in late 2009 and will process up to 400,000 In response, the EU invested in programmes tonnes of raw sugar, turning it into sugar such as the construction of an irrigation products for both manufacturers and retail dam and canal system at Lubovane.
Opened in March 2009, it allows local Above: In April 2009, Azucarera Ebro, the leading sugar producer in Iberia, joined the group.
10 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Operating review Sugar & Agriculture Our business in Zambia achieves the highest cane yield per hectare of any of Illovos operations at levels which are world class.
During the year we completed the doubling of capacity in Zambia as well as smaller-scale expansion projects in Swaziland, Mozambique and Tanzania.
Streamlining of the South African business AGRICULTURE Revenue continued with the sale of the Umfolozi and Pongola mills and creation of a new 1,004m 2008, 867m joint venture at Gledhow.
Illovo successfully raised rand 3bn of additional capital through a rights issue to finance its future expansion plans.
Proceeds were received Adjusted operating pro t in late September after the groups year end.
The Zambian business completed a US$50m rights issue during the year to finance its capacity increase.
34m 2008, 33m Our businesses in China had a very dif cult year with the signi cant sugar stock overhang from 2007 8 depressing prices during the first half.
A reduced crop in the north, with exceptionally low sugar content, impacted operating costs.
Sugar AB Agri had another very strong year continuing to perform prices in China rallied in the second half driven by government purchases, a smaller national crop this year and higher world sugar prices.
Importantly for the price well above expectations in a market that experienced lower outlook, consumption exceeded production in China by some 1.7 million tonnes in commodity prices but with continued volatility.
Looking forward the business will be strengthened by the commissioning of the new cane sugar mill at Jinchengjiang and by the beet sugar business achieved both in its UK and international operations, driven by focusing on the development of agriculture and production in seven of its good market experience, trading and nutritional expertise and 12 factories.
by excellent performances from new business streams.
Construction of Vivergos wheat bioethanol plant is progressing well at Hull in the UK, with commissioning now planned for autumn 2010.
All major plant items have Frontier, our grain and crop inputs supply joint venture, produced exceptional now been received and installation is well under way.
Contracts have been signed results having anticipated the correction in the value of the global grain markets with AB Agri to supply wheat from Frontier and for the sale of the distillers grain and the increased demand for seed, fertiliser and crop protection products.
It is expected that a yeast supply agreement with AB Mauri will In a quite different market from the previous year, Frontiers unique national be signed shortly.
The European market for bioethanol is still in its infancy but is grain trading structure and its integrated crop inputs supply business enabled it expected to grow considerably over the next few years.
The UK mandate for the to respond quickly to changing customer demand.
Its national network for grain inclusion of renewables in transport fuel requires the current 3.25% to increase trading and exporting facilities was ideally suited to merchandising the UK crop to 5% by 2013 14.
Longer term, the EU Renewable Energy Directive will require which was not only large but also of variable quality.
the member states to derive 10% of transport fuel from renewable sources KW Trident, our ruminant feeds business, signi cantly increased its presence in the UK blends market.
AB Vista delivered excellent sales growth of its high-technology, valued-added feed enzymes, and a new enzyme, Econase XT, was recently granted approval by the European Food Safety Authority.
International sales of our other specialist products, pre-mixes and piglet starter feeds, continued to grow, particularly in the developing markets of Eastern Europe.
As part of our sustainable supply chain offerings to processors and retailers, AB Agri has developed the first Carbon Trust accredited greenhouse gas reduction model for dairy farms.
This has been used to help Sainsbury reduce the overall greenhouse gas emissions from its milk-supplying farms.
Sainsbury has recently signed an agreement with AB Agri to extend this carbon-scoring work to include beef, lamb, pork, poultry and eggs in its UK supply chain.
This will require AB Agri to carbon footprint more than 18,000 farms over the next four years.
We continued to invest in our compound feed business in China.
We opened a new mill in Henan province to meet this markets high demand for pig feed, replacing an old leased mill, and began construction of a new ruminant-speci c mill in Tianjin.
When complete, this expansion will have delivered a 20% increase in production capacity.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 PART OF EVERYDAY LIFE Primark is taking its winning formula to the rest of Europe Directors report Business review Operating review Retail Whilst there are still many opportunities to extend Primarks estate in the UK, expansion into continental Europe represents an exciting and substantial growth prospect Operating pro t margin declined from 12.1% to 10.9% this year, primarily RETAIL as a result of the increased xed overhead of the new UK distribution centre at Thrapston.
The weakness of sterling during the year signi cantly increased the cost of goods sourced in US dollars.
As a result of forward buying of currency, this mainly affected the second half of the financial year.
However, the impact on gross margins was mitigated by better buying, lower freight costs and a more pro table Revenue sales mix.
A further gross margin reduction is expected for the forthcoming period 2,314m 2008, 1,933m up to Christmas but with an improvement at the beginning of 2010 with the bene t of forward buying of US dollars at improved exchange rates.
Adjusted operating pro t We opened 12 new stores during the year: five in Spain, four in the UK and our first 252m 2008, 233m stores in each of the Netherlands, Germany and Portugal.
We closed smaller stores in Bristol and Tooting when the new stores were opened there.
The new Bristol store is our second largest after Manchester, trading from 100,000 sq ft over four oors.
This brings the total number of stores trading by the year end to 191, from 5.9 million sq ft of selling space which is an increase of 9% since last year end.
Primark celebrates its 40th birthday this year and Arthur Ryan, its founder and Our stores in continental Europe performed well although it is still early days for chief executive throughout its rise to become a leading force on the high street, Germany and Portugal.
Plans are in place to open 11 new stores in the coming year, has chosen this landmark to announce that he will stand down as chief including our first store in Belgium, and there is a good pipeline of further stores.
executive to concentrate on his role as Chairman.
Responsibility for the As Primark has grown, its record on ethical trading, in common with all clothing day-to-day running of the business has been assumed by Paul Marchant as retailers, has been subject to close scrutiny.
It offers good quality fashion at low chief executive.
Mr Marchant was appointed chief operating of cer in January prices because it purchases very large volumes and has low mark-ups, minimal and brings with him a wealth of experience in retailing.
Since then, he has advertising and low overheads.
Primarks success is also a result of its ability to worked closely with Mr Ryan and the strong management team.
Mr Ryans respond quickly to changes in the marketplace with its at management structure, skill and experience will play an important part in maintaining the growth a strong buying team and an excellent distribution capability.
More than 95% of momentum and pursuing the signi cant strategic opportunities available its third-party suppliers are shared with other leading European high street brands.
Sourcing from developing countries carries with it an obligation to ensure that workers making garments are treated fairly.
Primark takes this responsibility seriously and has contributed to the industry-wide efforts to improve labour standards.
Primark again delivered exceptional sales and pro t growth Primark has committed to undertake over 1,000 audits in 2009, nearly doubling even though each of its three main markets were subject to the number achieved last year.
A new Ethical Trade Director has been appointed recessionary pressure and a decline in consumer con dence.
along with a number of other appointments based in the main regions from which we source.
Relationships with non-government organisations have been Sales increased by 20% as a result of growth in selling strengthened, especially in China, India and Bangladesh.
Projects relating to the space and like-for-like sales growth of 7%.
The value sector determination of a living wage, womens rights and home-working are under way.
continued to capture an increasing share of the UK clothing New store openings: Algeciras Spain Oviedo Spain Bristol UK relocation retail market and Primark is in the vanguard of this Barcelona Spain Rotterdam Netherlands Corby UK movement.
Organic growth was also achieved through La Coruna Spain Bremen Germany High Wycombe UK La Gavia Spain Lisbon Portugal Tooting UK relocation Primarks strong competitive position, its highly appealing merchandise and better weather than last year.
14 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Operating review Retail Case study EVERYDAY LIFE IN RETAIL Value retailing has grown enormously This has been fuelled by growth in the Compared to the 1990s, new stores tend to over the past decade.
Verdict Research numbers and purchasing power of middle be bigger than the average the Manchester 2001: estimates that value clothing retailers income groups and in particular by a new agship store was extended to 136,000 sq ft 1.7m sq ft have increased their market share from af uence amongst the young who enjoy last year.
Primark expressing themselves through fashion, Oxford Street store has helped af rm the has been in the vanguard of this trend music and leisure.
High fashion turnover brand as a leading value retailer in the UK.
to the extent that some commentators has spurred frequency of shopping trips To achieve this transformation, ABF has 2009: predict a long-term shift in consumer and higher than industry average sales invested over 1bn on new stores, extensions behaviour towards value, which they per square foot.
Moreover it has driven to existing stores and new t-outs since 5.9m sq ft have dubbed, the Primark Effect.
the footfall necessary to generate 2005.
As a result, Primark has transformed volume purchase in other categories itself from its origins as a low price-point, From its foundation in Ireland in 1969, PRIMARK HAS MORE THAN within the stores such as footwear, lingerie tertiary-located clothing retailer into a Primark established a winning formula using TRIPLED ITS RETAIL SELLING and homeware.
leading value retailer in the UK.
a retail model based on highly competitive SPACE SINCE 2001 pricing and fast-changing fashion-conscious Primark over this period has enjoyed Although competition and change product lines.
Throughout its development a consistently growing share of a growing in consumption patterns are potential it has demonstrated tenacious adherence sector.
But there has been another dynamic competitive threats, Primark has consistently to these principles while displaying which has driven the remarkable growth shown superior growth to the clothing considerable agility in adapting to changes of the business.
Since 2001, Primark has category overall.
in both the market environment and grown its selling footprint from 1.7m sq ft It would seem for an ever-growing army consumer behaviour.
to 5.9m sq ft. A signi cant feature of this of satis ed, fashion-conscious customers, 25% growth has been the increase in average The last two decades have been the era Primark has indeed become a part of store size over that period from 16,000 sq ft THE MARKET SHARE THAT VALUE of fast fashion during which catwalk-looks everyday life.
RETAILERS ENJOYED IN 2008. and celebrity creations have been converted IN 1998 IT WAS 11% at ever-increasing speed into affordable purchases for everyone.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 PART OF EVERYDAY LIFE Our grocery brands are enjoyed by households all over the world Directors report Business review Operating review Grocery Early indications are that this unique offering has been well received by the market.
GROCERY Following an increased focus on health and safety in its commercial eet, which covers one million kilometres each week, the business was delighted to receive an award for its promotion of safe driving by its employees.
Twinings Ovaltine is a successful international business which bene ted from the Revenue favourable translation of the results of its overseas operations into sterling.
It also delivered good volume growth, particularly from Ovaltine, in its developing markets 3,188m 2008, 2,820m with strong growth in Asia and the newer markets of Nigeria and Brazil.
Growth slowed in Twinings as volumes of its premium products were affected but there Adjusted operating pro t was high consumer demand for Everyday tea.
In the UK, a new television and 191m 2008, 194m press campaign supporting Twinings speciality teas was introduced in May with encouraging results.
The Twinings brand also performed well in Australia supported by a successfully executed marketing plan including television commercials.
On 2 November 2009 Twinings announced that it was entering a period Grocery revenue increased by 13% to 3,188m driven by the of consultation with employees over a proposed reorganisation of its tea full year effect of price increases taken in the previous financial manufacturing footprint.
The changes will ensure that manufacturing will be closer to its major customer markets, it will have the capacity to meet future growth year, favourable translation resulting from the weakness of demands and it will be lower cost and more ef cient than the current con guration.
sterling, the inclusion of Jordans and some volume growth.
It is proposed to invest in high-speed, automated packaging equipment at Andover to produce high-volume products mainly destined for the UK market.
The Chinese Pro t declined by 2% to 191m mainly as a result of the first factory would be doubled in size and would concentrate on the US and Asia Paci c half problems of ACH in the US and a highly competitive UK markets and a new factory to be built in Poland would specialise in rest-of-world markets.
The factory in Newcastle would close.
The programme would take over retail sugar market for Silver Spoon.
By contrast, Allied Bakeries two years to complete.
The charge for this reorganisation of some 19m, of which and Twinings Ovaltine made very good progress.
8m is non-cash, would be included in the income statement for the 2009 10 financial year.
In the US and Mexico, pro tability at ACH was heavily impacted in the first half by taking long positions in vegetable oil futures at values well above the current Silver Spoon experienced a highly competitive market but bene ted from increased market after a period when vegetable oil prices had risen sharply.
Volumes of Mazola demand for home baking ingredients.
This, combined with distribution gains, and Capullo were lower than last year as a reaction to the consequentially higher resulted in higher sales and market share across the Silver Spoon sugar and Allinson consumer prices.
The performance in the second half steadily improved with higher our ranges.
The Silver Spoon brand was extended into the growing cake making Mazola volumes, following its consumer price reductions, and the full utilisation of and decorating category with the launch of the Cakecraft range in June.
Dif cult market conditions have hampered the recovery of Capullo of the Newark packaging plant and transfer of operations to an expanded plant in Mexico.
Home baking products and spices had a good year.
Good progress was at Bury St. Edmunds is virtually complete.
made with the integration of the foodservice, speciality food ingredient and retail private-label bottled oils businesses in Stratas, the 50% joint venture formed This year we successfully integrated Jordans Cereals and Ryvita into a single with Archer Daniels Midland ADM in October.
The products produced at business headquartered in Biggleswade, with common systems and processes.
ACHs factories are being transferred on a phased basis to the low-cost facilities This was achieved on time and on budget whilst maintaining a high level of service contributed by ADM to Stratas.
Major cost savings will be realised when ACHs to customers.
Ryvita continued to perform well with good year-on-year sales growth facilities are nally closed in spring 2010.
Following the transfer of its commodity in its core crispbread business.
Jordans trading improved during the year, after a oils business to Stratas, ACH has rationalised its overhead and focused on slow start, with growth achieved in most of its key branded lines.
The Country Crisp improvements to its processes to support what is now a branded food business.
range was rationalised and responded well to its relaunch with improved recipes and new packaging.
In Australia, revenue was well ahead of last year re ecting the recovery of higher input costs and a strong performance from milling.
Pro t was also ahead although The ethnic foodservice sector in the UK continued to suffer from the effects of margin pressure was a feature both in the baking and meat businesses.
A number recession which impacted sales by Westmill Foods.
Pro t was lower than last year as of new products were launched during the year.
Following the closure of the Canberra a consequence but our main brands, Lucky Boat, Pataks, Green Dragon, Habib and and Orange bakeries, announced at the end of last year, the consolidation of Rajah continued to develop well.
Rajah was relaunched in the summer to coincide baking in New South Wales was completed with the upgrade of the Newcastle with its participation in three regional UK cultural events celebrating Asian music, bakery.
New product launches and packaging formats were also used to develop dance and food.
the Don and KR Castlemaine brands following the combination of these meat Last year AB World Foods successfully combined the Blue Dragon and Pataks businesses last year.
Rationalisation is progressing to plan with the closure of the businesses with the creation of a single supply chain and the commissioning factory in Perth and the start of the construction of the new factory in Castlemaine.
of a new sauces factory in Poland for Blue Dragon.
This year we have focused on The UK grocery businesses made further progress led by a strong performance from delivering the bene ts of this combination and achieved a strong sales performance.
Allied Bakeries where sales improved through distribution gains, delivered on the Margin was impacted by adverse commodity and currency movements.
The Blue back of stronger trading relationships.
In June this year Kingsmill became the first Dragon brand continued to grow driven by the success of its stir-fry and sweet chilli UK bread brand to use the Carbon Trusts Carbon Reduction Label when it featured dipping sauces.
The Pataks brand has undergone a major relaunch with new and the label on its Great Everyday White, Tasty Wholemeal and 50 50 loaves.
At the improved recipes and a new television advertising campaign focusing on the end of the year we launched the Little Big Loaf in response to consumer demand Pathak family heritage.
Meenas, a premium Indian sauce range launched in the for a loaf with full-sized slices but fewer of them.
UK a year ago, has quickly established itself with availability in all major supermarkets.
18 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Operating review Grocery Case study EVERYDAY LIFE IN GROCERY Its 7am in New York city and an executive looks out on the Manhattan skyline while drinking a refreshing cup of Twinings tea.
3,400 miles away in London a schoolboy is eating his lunchtime sandwich made with Kingsmill bread and simultaneously in Bangkok, mum is giving the children their evening snack with a cooling and nutritious glass of Ovaltine.
Each and every day our grocery brands are enjoyed by millions of people around the world.
Encompassing a range of food categories that includes sugar, bread, cooking oils, breakfast cereals, packed meats and hot beverages: our Grocery business is built on brands that are known and trusted in diverse cultures across the globe.
To build and maintain a business of this scale requires investment, expertise and skill in speci c product sectors and markets.
Our operating model is based on empowering the best management teams to service markets in which they have expertise.
Whether that entails building and expanding the Twinings tea business globally or selecting the best Pakistani basmati rice for export to the UK, we employ experts who are focused on meeting and exceeding the requirements of consumers in local markets across the globe.
Our long-term business objective is to grow organically and by acquisition in complementary activities, while striving to achieve high levels of operating ef ciency.
Our baking businesses, for example, include centres of expertise in the UK, Australia and New Zealand with products that span everyday, premium and part-baked catering breads.
This gives us the scale and expertise to provide the baked products people want to eat at the best possible prices.
Whether it is a pecan pie made with Karo corn syrup in Birmingham, Alabama, or a cup of Nambarrie tea in Belfast Northern Ireland, our products form part of everyday life around the world.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 PART OF EVERYDAY LIFE We are a leader in yeast and bakery ingredients, supporting local markets on a global scale Directors report Business review Operating review Ingredients Case study EVERYDAY LIFE IN INGREDIENTS Five years is a short time when you AB Mauri has its global headquarters in This team manages relationships with are building up a business, but that the UK and is organised into six geographic those major international bakery and is how long it has taken to grow our regions.
It operates from more than food service groups whose geographic scope Yeast and Bakery Ingredients business 48 locations in 27 countries and from its extends across several or all of AB Mauris from a small UK joint venture into the humble beginnings now has a total sales regional businesses.
worldwide number two in the market.
turnover of over one billion US dollars.
Today AB Mauri has impressive geographic AB Mauri was formed in November 2004 As well as its regional structure, there are reach through its international family of as a new operating division.
It was created two centrally managed Technology Groups.
yeast and bakery ingredient businesses.
by bringing together the yeast and bakery The Global Technology Group, based in These businesses are supported by ingredients businesses which were acquired Sydney, Australia covers all aspects of yeast outstanding distribution networks.
from Burns Philp, our existing bakery manufacturing and operations including AB Mauri is a young company that has ingredient operations, and other more strain development, engineering, come a long way in a very short time.
Consistent commitment fermentation technology, project and Its name may still be new to many people.
and investment since, has seen AB Mauri procurement management.
However some of the local brands have consolidate its European operations and The Bakery Technology Group based in the great local heritage and are well recognised construct new factories in areas of strong Netherlands covers baking science, research and respected in their markets.
Examples market growth such as China.
formulation and application skills, and a include Fleischmann, Mauri, Calsa, highly focused team responsible for the Tower, Cereform, Serrol, Maurimix, Mauripan management of global accounts business.
For millions of people around the world AB Mauri plays a signi cant role in their daily lives... without them even knowing.
Above: Baking ingredients account for almost a third of our Ingredients revenues.
22 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Operating review Ingredients The yeast and bakery ingredients business of AB Mauri performed well, with good INGREDIENTS sales growth in all geographic regions.
Particularly good progress was made in yeast in South America and in technical ingredients in the Americas, but with tough trading conditions experienced in India.
Operating margins improved following price increases achieved early in the year and the bene t of capital investment in cost reduction projects at our newly acquired factory in Italy.
Revenue Capital investment continued apace with further progress made on the signi cant 989m 2008, 824m expansion of the Chinese yeast plant in Harbin which is due to open in 2010.
Working closely with the relevant local authorities we continued our programme Adjusted operating pro t to upgrade ef uent treatment plants in South America, India, Vietnam, China and 88m 2008, 78m the UK which will improve the quality of waste water, ensuring compliance with ever-tightening regulatory standards.
A major new Innovations Centre was opened in Bangalore in April to provide a regional focus on Bakery Ingredients throughout south and west Asia.
We closed our small yeast facility in Ireland and transferred Revenue and operating pro t increased by 20% and production to Hull in the UK.
The sale of the former Gilde Bakery Ingredients business in Iberia and our manufacturing plant in Portugal was completed in 13% respectively, largely driven by the bene t of sterling June in accordance with the agreement reached with the EU Commission.
weakness against the US dollar and euro.
ABF Ingredients had a dif cult year with lower sales volumes and pressure on margins as some commodity prices fell.
Feed enzymes performed well with good growth generated from geographic expansion and new products.
The expansion of enzymes capacity in Finland by some 30% was completed during the year.
This removes the previous capacity constraint allowing previously outsourced production to be brought in-house and provides much needed exibility for further development of this fast-growing business.
Construction of the new yeast extracts We have consistently facility, adjacent to the Chinese yeast plant in Harbin, is due to complete in 2010. developed the group When opened this will be a low-cost complement to our existing facility in Hamburg, Germany which is running at full capacity.
through investment In the US, the cost of key raw materials including fatty acids, rice and palm oil, and this year it enabled fell from the high levels experienced last year which, combined with a better the delivery of good approach to global sourcing, resulted in an improvement in pro tability.
Our speciality proteins business has focused on whey protein production at Juda, results in dif cult Wisconsin, and we closed the loss-making Norfolk, Nebraska milk protein facility.
The To minimise the cost base and maximise sales and management ef ciencies we have merged the whey protein business with our speciality extruded ingredients pace of development business based in Woodland, California.
activity has increased and all our businesses are well equipped to George Weston Chief Executive deliver future growth Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 Directors report Business review Financial review Financial review John Bason Finance Director Other items excluded in calculating adjusted operating pro t are pro ts less losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment, amortisation of non-operating intangibles and any exceptional items.
A net loss of 65m arose on the sale and closure of businesses, in line with that reported at the half year.
This primarily related to the contribution of the US packaged oils business to the Stratas joint venture, 37m of which related to the write-off of property, plant and equipment at the two redundant ACH factories.
Finance expense less finance income of 78m compared with a charge of 53m last year.
This year-on-year increase resulted from the continued signi cant level of capital investment in organic growth opportunities, the acquisition of new businesses and the impact of the US private placement which is currently a more expensive source of finance than bank debt at prevailing interest rates.
Other financial income of 13m was primarily net income from retirement bene t schemes, being the expected return on assets in the groups schemes less the charge on pension scheme liabilities.
This compared with a net income of 21m last year.
Pro t before tax fell from 527m to 495m.
This included the impact of the loss on disposal of businesses this year and an 11m reduction, year-on-year, in pro ts less losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment.
Last years pro t before tax included a charge of 46m for exceptionals.
Adjusted to exclude these items, underlying pro t before tax increased by 4% to 655m.
Taxation The tax charge of 112m included an underlying charge of 166m, at an effective tax rate of 25.3% on the adjusted pro t before tax.
This was higher than last years Group performance 24.4% as a result of the mix of pro ts in different tax jurisdictions and last years Group revenue increased by 12% to 9.3bn with substantial growth in every business one-time bene t from tax credits related to our investment in Zambia.
The food businesses bene ted from the weakness of sterling, the ow-through The overall tax charge for the year bene ted from a 25m 2008 21m credit of price increases from last year, acquisitions and some volume growth.
There was for tax relief on the amortisation of non-operating intangible assets and goodwill continued strong trading from Primark.
At constant currency, and excluding the impact arising from asset acquisitions.
A tax credit of 25m arose on the loss on the sale of acquisitions and disposals, revenue increased by 7%.
Revenue from the US packaged of businesses and xed assets and the tax on the fair value inventory adjustment oils business that was contributed to the Stratas joint venture has been included in discussed above amounted to 4m.
Since the disposal, the groups interest in the joint venture has been equity accounted with the result that sales revenues are not consolidated.
Earnings and dividends Earnings attributable to equity shareholders were 359m, 2m higher than Adjusted operating pro t increased by 8% to 720m.
At constant currency, last year, and the weighted average number of shares in issue used to calculate and excluding the bene t of acquisitions, it increased by 3% but this ignores earnings per share fell from 790 million to 789 million.
Earnings per ordinary share the impact that sterling weakness had on import costs which, for a number were 1% ahead of last year at 45.5p.
Adjusted earnings per share which provides of businesses, and Primark in particular, was a signi cant factor in second half a more consistent measure of performance increased by 5% from 54.9p to 57.7p.
Under international accounting standards, inventory acquired with a business is stated at its fair value and typically pro t is reduced when the The interim dividend was increased by 2% to 6.9p and a final dividend has sale subsequently takes place.
For the Azucarera acquisition this resulted in an been proposed at 14.1p which represents an overall increase of 4% for the year.
increase of 12m in inventory, from book value to fair value.
This non-cash amount, In accordance with IFRS, no accrual has been made in these accounts for the which reduced pro t in the year, has been added back in calculating adjusted proposed dividend which is expected to cost 111m and will be charged next year.
operating pro t. The dividend is covered 2.75 times on an adjusted basis.
24 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Financial review We continued to invest signi cantly in the future of the group with expenditure on capital and acquisitions, net of disposal proceeds, of 832m.
Balance sheet At the year end the group had total committed borrowing facilities amounting to Non-current assets increased by 647m to 6,018m.
Property, plant and equipment 1,847m of which 1,007m was drawn down.
1,073m of these facilities expire of 3,519m increased by 409m driven by acquisitions, which added 218m, in October 2011, with the remainder maturing from 2012 to 2021.
The group also and capital expenditure net of depreciation of 223m.
Working capital increased had access, at the year end, to 841m of uncommitted credit lines under which by 65m primarily due to higher inventory values as a result of the Azucarera 358m was drawn.
The signi cant increase in headroom on these facilities since acquisition.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions, working capital fell re ecting last year is the consequence of the 320m bank facility which was secured at lower commodity costs and an increased focus on working capital management.
the beginning of the year, and the US$610m raised in March through a private Net borrowings at the year end were 208m higher than last year at 999m.
placement in the US which strengthened the group balance sheet and secured long-term non-bank nancing.
A currency gain of 243m arose on the translation into sterling of the groups foreign currency denominated net assets.
This resulted from the fact that sterling Pensions was weaker against all major currencies at the end of this year than at the end Pensions are accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 Employee bene ts.
The groups net assets increased by 232m to 5,076m.
The total pension expense for the year was 69m compared with 62m last year.
Return on capital employed for the group fell from 16.6% to 15.4%.
This is On an IAS 19 basis, liabilities in the groups fide ned bene t pension schemes largely a consequence of the substantial level of investment made this year in now exceed employee bene t assets by 106m compared with last years surplus a number of long-term capital projects which have yet to yield a return.
This turnaround is the consequence of a fall in asset values as equity capital employed is fide ned as adjusted operating pro t expressed as a percentage and bond markets have responded to the worldwide recession together with of average capital employed for the year.
in ationary increases in scheme liabilities.
The triennial actuarial valuation of the UK Pension Scheme undertaken in 2008 revealed a funding fide cit of 163m Cash ow which, by agreement with the Trustees, the Company will eliminate with five Net cash ow from operating activities was 833m compared with 553m last fide cit payments of 30m each, the first of which was made in March 2009. year.
This substantial increase mainly re ects a strong working capital performance Total contributions to fide ned bene t plans in the year amounted to 75m with an in ow of 117m compared with an out ow of 110m last year, despite the 2008 54m.
considerable growth in the business.
For fide ned contribution schemes the charge for the year is equal to the We continued to invest signi cantly in the future growth of the group with a net contributions made which amounted to 33m 2008 26m.
832m spent on property, plant and equipment, intangibles and acquisitions net of disposals during the year.
Capital expenditure amounted to 545m of Post balance sheet events which 159m was spent on the acquisition and t-out of Primark stores.
Elsewhere On 14 September 2009, Illovo concluded a rand 3bn rights issue to fund further expenditure was incurred on yeast and yeast extract production in China, expansion projects in Africa.
ABF took up its 51% the expansion of our sugar interests in southern Africa, bioethanol production entitlement at a cost of 126m.
The rights issue reduces the groups consolidated in the UK and enzymes capacity in Finland.
Compensation received for sugar net debt by 119m after the year end.
quota renounced last year amounted to 101m.
On 2 November 2009, Twinings announced that it was entering a period We invested 391m on acquisitions, principally on the leading sugar producer in of consultation with employees over a proposed reorganisation of its tea Iberia but also on an animal feed mill in the UK and a sugar cane farm in Zambia.
The charge for this reorganisation is expected to be 145m was received from business disposals, primarily the Polish sugar business, 19m and will be included in the income statement for the financial year 2009 10. the Pongola mill in South Africa and the former Gilde Bakery Ingredients business in Iberia which was sold, together with our manufacturing plant in Portugal, in accordance with an agreement reached with the EU Commission.
Financing John Bason Cash and cash equivalents totalled 383m at the year end.
These were managed Finance Director during the year by a central treasury department, operating under strictly controlled guidelines, which also arranges term bank finance for acquisitions and to meet short-term working capital requirements, particularly for the sugar beet and wheat harvests.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25
