SOCO International plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Review of Operations During 2009, SOCO prepared for and launched the most active drilling programme in its history Antony Maris Vice President Operations and Production Business Review SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 South East Asia Vietnam Thailand During 2009, SOCO prepared for and launched the most active drilling programme in its history.
Subject to farm-out discussions and critical equipment availability, the programme continues with a drilling campaign in the Cuu Long Basin Vietnam offshore Vietnam to appraise and prove up SOCOs Block 16-1 and Block 9-2 projects in significant additional reserves, two to three Vietnam are in the oil rich Cuu Long Basin, which high impact exploration wells on the Nganzi is a shallow water, nearshore area defined by Block onshore the Democratic Republic of several high profile producing oil fields, the Initial interpretation of the improved TGT Congo Kinshasa and two exploration wells largest of which has been the Bach Ho field, pre-stack depth migration data set suggests that in the Congo Basin offshore the Republic of which is located between our two Blocks and the structural crests of the TGT fault blocks are Congo Brazzaville, one on the Marine XI Block has produced more than one billion barrels of further east than originally mapped.
Thus, the and one on the Marine XIV Block.
The projects are operated through seven exploration appraisal wells drilled to date non-profit Joint Operating Companies JOCs in the field, with an average oil and gas flow of The potential impact on reserves and production wherein each participating party owns shares approximately 11,300 barrels of oil per day from the current development, appraisal and equivalent to its respective interests in the BOPD per well, provide greater structural control exploration programme is larger than anything Petroleum Contracts PCs covering the projects.
and suggest improved results in development undertaken by the Company to date.
wells drilled up-dip of the existing wells.
The Companys interests are held through its 80% owned subsidiary SOCO Vietnam Ltd SOCO Early conclusions from the seismic reprocessed Vietnam and through its 100% ownership of over TGD show improved continuity at the The current OPECO, Inc. SOCO Vietnam holds a 25% working reservoir level over the structure and support the interest in Block 9-2, which is operated by the previous interpretation of the reservoir deposition.
programme is larger Hoan Vu JOC HVJOC and holds a 28.5% working Detailed mapping is underway to select the than anything interest in Block 16-1, which is operated by the appraisal well location.
Drilling is planned for Hoang Long JOC HLJOC.
OPECO, Inc. holds a the first half of 2010. undertaken to date 2% working interest in Block 16-1.
Te Giac Trang Block 16-1 The Company was granted approval from Total production net to the Groups working Reprocessing of a 3D seismic grid over the Petrovietnam, the Vietnam national oil company, interest during 2009 was 6,415 barrels of oil fairway that includes both the Te Giac Trang TGT of the Field Development Area for the TGT field equivalent per day BOEPD sourced from its and Te Giac Den TGD fields was completed in May of 2009 and, subsequently, Petrovietnam South East Asia operations compared during the second half of 2009.
The initial assumed funding of its 41% share of with 2,533 BOEPD produced from these interpretation was encouraging for both projects.
development costs as of 1 July 2009.
This increase Whereas the discovery wells on TGT were drilled September, the Company was informed that the reflects a full year of production in Vietnam based on time migrated seismic, future wells will Ministry of Industry and Trade, on behalf of the and Thailand compared with five and four be positioned using the newly reprocessed, depth Vietnamese Government, had approved the months, respectively, in 2008. migrated seismic.
Development Plan for the TGT field.
SOCO International plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Key Performance Indicators Review of 2009 2008 2007 Operations Production boepd 6,415 4,464 6,316 South East Asia Total proven and probable reserve additions mmboe 3.4 25.0 2.6 continued Proven and probable reserves mmboe 142.5 144.1 160.9 See the Five Year Summary on page 82 for definitions Voi Trang The initial application for the Voi Trang appraisal area that encompassed the discovery well and several adjacent leads covering an area of approximately 100 square kilometres was approved by Petrovietnam in January 2009.
However, following an assessment of the commerciality of the previous discoveries in the awarded area, the HLJOC opted to relinquish First oil is targeted for mid-2011 with production this area.
Petrovietnam issued a formal approval of the relinquishment in July 2009. from this first phase of development expected to be approximately 50,000 BOPD.
Tenders for a CNV production net to the Groups working number of long lead items have been issued and fabrication is underway on the initial unmanned interest averaged 2,848 BOEPD for 2009.
Total production net Production was suspended in late December platform to be installed on the northernmost H1 fault block.
Drilling of the initial development 2009 as a routine cleaning of the production to the Groups working line connecting the CNV platform to the Bach appraisal wells will begin shortly after this platform is installed in June July of this year.
interest during 2009 Ho production platform resulted in a pipeline inspection gauge becoming stuck in the line.
was 6,415 BOEPD Final negotiations for the floating, production, Production resumed in early February 2010. storage and offloading vessel the primary critical path item for meeting the first oil date Thailand Block 9-2 Bualuang Field were concluded in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Ca Ngu Vang SOCOs 99.93% owned Thailand subsidiary, Te Giac Den Development on Ca Ngu Vang CNV continued into SOCO Exploration Thailand Co. Ltd. holds a The TGD Appraisal Area encompasses 150 square 2009 after first oil was achieved the previous 40% interest in the Bualuang field located in kilometres including the high pressure, high year.
The sixth and final well in the initial phase of Block B8 38, offshore in the Gulf of Thailand.
temperature discovery well, TGD-1X-ST1, on development drilling, the CNV-6P, was drilled during Prospect E and the analogous E South Prospect.
Since the efficient exploitation of During the first half of 2009, the operator drilled This area borders the southern boundary of the this Basement field requires early water flooding two horizontal attic wells in the Bualuang field TGT field.
to reach a plateau production and avoid gas and reported a reserves upgrade.
The two wells breakthrough, the original development concept were drilled to maximise oil production from the The application for the Block 16-1 TGD Appraisal was to water flood the eastern flank of the strong water driven reservoir, whilst minimising Area and work programmes was approved structure.
Because the fracturing in the eastern production of water.
In the reserves upgrade, the by Petrovietnam in January 2009 and the flank of the field of the Basement reservoir is not operator reported a rise from 20 million gross subsequent Vietnamese Government approval as intense as that indicated by wells drilled in proven and probable barrels of oil at 1 January other parts of the structure, a drilling programme was received in April 2009.
The appraisal 2009 to 26.3 million gross proven and probable period expires at the end of 2010.
During the is being finalised to drill a well to the western part barrels of oil recoverable.
of the field to be converted to a water injector intervening period, the contracting parties will attempt to demonstrate commerciality of the and to sidetrack a current producer to increase A 384 square kilometre 3D seismic programme production.
In the interim, production has been initial TGD discovery, which would then lead was acquired in the first quarter of 2010.
The to an application for field development.
scaled back pending the initiation of water injection programme is intended to evaluate additional in order to maintain adequate reservoir pressure.
exploration potential within the Block as well as A drilling rig suitable for drilling in high pressure to enhance understanding of the field.
Additional Negotiations for a rig to conduct the development high temperature environments was contracted development drilling is anticipated in the in February 2010.
The well is expected to spud drilling are currently being finalised.
It is possible upcoming year to maintain production levels that the same rig could be later utilised to drill in as soon as practicable after the end of the and to efficiently exploit the field.
northwest monsoon season in Vietnam and the TGT field.
Drilling is anticipated to commence on CNV late in the first quarter or early in the following a site survey and sourcing of Bualuang production net to the Groups working specialised wellhead equipment.
second quarter of 2010. interest averaged 3,567 BOPD for 2009. Business Review SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 Phase II development drilling in the CNV Field is set to begin in the first half of 2010 SOCO International plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Review of Operations continued From left: Serge Lescaut General Manager Africa Region Gordon Graham Group Exploration Manager George Hepler Group Technical Engineering Manager Business Review SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 Africa Democratic Republic of Congo Republic of Congo Angola Republic of Congo Brazzaville The Groups 85% owned subsidiary, SOCO Exploration and Production Congo SA SOCO EPC, holds interests in and is the designated operator Viodo of both the Marine XI 29% working interest and The second well to be drilled on Marine XI, the Marine XIV 29.4% working interest Blocks Viodo Marine 4 vertical appraisal well VIM-4, offshore Congo Brazzaville.
The VIM-4 well was an appraisal of the 1986 Viodo Marine XI oil discovery which lies in some 65 metres of The first DST from the deeper carbonate section The Marine XI Block is located adjacent to the water and contains oil in the Toca Formation, between 2,240 to 2,273 metres flowed at initial coast in the Lower Congo Basin, offshore Congo a lacustrine carbonate developed below the post-acid rates of approximately 2,600 BOPD and Brazzaville, in shallow waters with depths regional salt horizon.
Three of the four existing 2.5 MMSCFD on a 3 4 inch choke.
Flow rates ranging up to 110 metres and covering wells drilled during the period 1986 to 1990 stabilised at approximately 1,100 BOPD on a 1 2 approximately 1,400 square kilometres.
A two successfully tested oil, but also showed the inch choke after an approximate seven hour flow well drilling programme was conducted in the accumulation to be geologically complex.
A test of the upper carbonate section, second half of 2009. between 2,205 and 2,230 metres, flowed at post-acid rates of approximately 4.5 MMSCFD.
Liyeke The results of the well and the reprocessed The seismic is The Liyeke Marine 1 LYM-1, a low cost wildcat seismic are being incorporated into a 3D model well, was spudded on 22 August 2009.
The that will be used to assess the commerciality of currently being LYM-1 well targeted and encountered the the accumulation.
interpreted ahead Sendji post-salt Formation on the previously designated S1 prospect.
On reaching target Marine XIV of SOCOs first well depth, the reservoir was found to be water In March 2009, regulatory approval was received on Marine XIV saturated.
A 62 metre heavy oil column was from the Government of Congo Brazzaville for SOCO EPCs farm-in to the Marine XIV Block encountered in the overlying sediments, but log and sample data indicated that the oil located in the Lower Congo Basin in shallow water, adjacent to the Companys Marine XI Block.
Accordingly, the well was The Companys objectives in drilling the VIM-4 plugged and abandoned after reaching a well were to further delineate the field, gather The farm-in to the three discontinuous sections of Marine XIV was pursued to complement SOCOs total depth of 1,140 metres.
data that would allow reprocessing of the 3D seismic in order to map the distribution of activity, both operationally and technically.
The outcome of this well has no bearing on reservoir quality limestone and to test the Previous exploration activity on the Block has the post-salt prospects to the south and west effectiveness of a completion strategy that could resulted in some oil discoveries.
of the Liyeke Marine well where the salt is be applied to high angle development wells.
thinner and discontinuous and will allow As operator, SOCO EPC has since completed a migration from the pre-salt source rocks.
The Company completed two drill stem tests 100 square kilometre multi-azimuthal 3D seismic More importantly, the well has no impact on DSTs resulting in a combined maximum flow programme.
The seismic is currently being pre-salt prospects where source rocks are rate of approximately 2,600 BOPD and 7.0 million interpreted ahead of SOCOs first well on adjacent to the prospective reservoirs.
standard cubic feet of gas per day MMSCFD.
SOCO International plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Review of Operations Africa continued Block 5 SOCO E&P DRC holds a 38.25% participating interest in the application for Block 5 located in the southern Albertine Graben in eastern DRC adjacent to the border with Uganda where there have been recent discoveries in the same basin.
The Block, award of which is pending a Presidential Decree, Democratic Republic of Congo covers an area of 7,105 square kilometres, Kinshasa DRC encompassing part of Lake Edward.
The Groups 85% owned subsidiary, SOCO Exploration and Production DRC Sprl SOCO E&P Angola DRC, holds the Groups interests in the DRC.
Cabinda North Several large SOCO Cabinda Limited, the Companys 80% Nganzi owned subsidiary, holds a 17% participating structures have been The Nganzi Block covers 800 square kilometres, interest in the Production Sharing Agreement for identified and two or onshore western DRC.
SOCO E&P DRC is the the Cabinda Onshore North Block in the Angolan designated operator with an 85% working enclave of Cabinda.
The 1,400 square kilometre three exploration interest.
Cohydro, the state owned oil company, Cabinda North Block, operated by Sonangol, is wells are planned for holds the remaining 15% interest.
bordered in the north by Congo Brazzaville and in the south and east by the DRC.
the second half of Initial interpretation of the processed seismic 2010 onshore DRC from a 2008 360 kilometre 2D seismic acquisition The contractor that conducted the seismic programme has been very encouraging.
Several programme on the Nganzi Block was mobilised large structures have been identified and two or in late 2009 to acquire both 2D and 3D seismic three exploration wells are planned for the second The Company has also submitted an application in Cabinda North.
However, there have been for a large interior block.
Finalisation of any half of 2010. multiple security incidents in the region the latest awards appear to be awaiting resolution of the of which, though unrelated to the project, led to award of Blocks I and II that directly offset Farm-out discussions are underway with other suspension of the seismic acquisition programme parties, who have interests in the region, but the discoveries in the northern part of the basin in in January 2010.
No Company personnel have Uganda.
The timing of finalising any award is Company has not ruled out conducting the drilling been directly affected thus far.
No drilling is programme without additional partners.
impossible to determine at this time.
anticipated in Cabinda during 2010. Business Review SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21
