Operating Review Materials Analysis Materials Analysis provides a wide range of analytical instrumentation to the metals and mining, pharmaceutical and life sciences, and semiconductor and electronics industries.
Overview Highlights Materials Analysis provides a wide range of analytical instrumentation to the metals Good demand from academic and mining, pharmaceutical and life sciences, and semiconductor and electronics research markets industries.
Our products help customers to improve accuracy and speed of materials Government stimulus packages analysis in the laboratory and in process manufacturing applications.
The operating benefit infrastructure development companies in this segment are Malvern Instruments, PANalytical and Particle projects Measuring Systems.
Some recovery in semiconductors Market drivers and electronics in Q4 In addition to the need to improve process manufacturing productivity, a key factor in the demand for this segments products is the requirement for certification to comply with regulation, for example for quality control in the manufacture of drugs in the pharmaceutical industry and detection of materials such as lead and cadmium to meet legislation on the use of hazardous substances.
Another driver for materials analysis instrumentation is the growth in new molecular and nano-material sciences, where our equipment is used to analyse and characterise materials and structures in the development of new products.
Segment performance Sales in Materials Analysis, at 248.1 million, were 2% lower than in the prior year down 11% at constant currencies.
Operating profit declined by 5.6 million to 248.1m 31.9 million.
Operating margins declined from 14.8% to 12.9%.
Around half of the decline in operating margins relates to the effects of foreign exchange and Sales the remainder relates to the cost of restructuring.
Key market demand in this segment in 2009 came from the academic sector and 31.9m from global infrastructure projects.
Sales to academic research institutions were strong, partially offsetting weaker demand from industrial customers.
Furthermore, Operating profit government economic stimulus packages in a number of countries, notably China and India, to support infrastructure projects provided demand for equipment from Malvern and PANalytical in construction-related sectors such as cement, steel and asphalt for roads.
Requirements to improve food and drug quality and safety, particularly in China, provided good opportunities for PANalytical, whilst Particle Measuring Systems is also experiencing growing interest in its contamination monitoring solutions from food and pharmaceutical companies.
This segment has a strategic focus on the pharmaceutical sector.
In October, Malvern signed a collaboration agreement with Kaiser Optical Systems, based in North America, a leading supplier of Raman analysers and components for spectroscopy.
Malvern will integrate Kaisers analysers and probes into its Morphologi platform, with the initial focus on pharmaceutical, life sciences and forensic applications.
Particle Measuring Systems saw good demand from vaccine manufacturers, who are increasing capacity to address the growing global demand for immunisation, and their investment in a direct sales channel in China is proving successful, with a number of pharmaceutical facility monitoring systems installed during the year.
In the second half of the year, the company acquired the business of MicroSafe, whose microbial air sampling products it had previously distributed, from an Italian subsidiary of 3M.
The MicroSafe suite of 12 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009
