16 Business review Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Operations review United Kingdom The UK performed poorly during the year having been Synergy operates its business on a geographic buffeted by an unstable economic environment, a surge basis.
During the year all three regions achieved in energy and commodity costs and contract start-up problems with new decontamination services.
Sales of significant sales growth but the operating 154.7 million were up 20.0%.
After stripping out the performance was less consistent in the UK.
acquisition of Vernon Carus and Grendonstar together with non-core businesses which are being wound down, The UK accounted for 56.4% of total revenues, underlying sales were up 12.2%.
Growth in the UK is slowing overall as a result of maturing Sterilisation and the Rest of Europe 40.7% and Asia and South linen management markets.
However we expect to see Africa 2.9%.
In terms of profit generation, before continued strong growth in Decontamination services and infection control products.
amortisation of intangibles, share scheme charges and non-recurring items, the UK generated 9.8% Operating profits, before amortisation of intangibles, share scheme charges and non-recurring items of profits, the Rest of Europe 52.4% and Asia and declined by 2.8% to 14.8 million.
Trading conditions in the UK have improved more recently with lower energy and commodities costs, attenuated slightly by Sterlings weakness against the US dollar.
Operating margins Revenue are expected to improve progressively through the new a. UK56.4% c a financial year.
Rest of Europe52.4% 91.5 67.7 c. Asia and South Africa 7.8% 35.7 b 05 06 07 08 09 Operating profit m 15.3 14.8 2.8% 9.5 6.0 4.8 05 06 07 08 09 1 Before amortisation of intangibles, share scheme charges and non-recurring items.
17 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Healthcare solutions Demand for outsourced decontamination services The Healthcare solutions business has had a difficult remains strong, all of which is being derived from year with dramatic increases in energy costs primarily outside of the National Decontamination Programme.
Energy costs abated during the With the establishment of the Care Quality Commission, last quarter and whilst we do not yet have the full which has taken over from the Healthcare Commission, benefit of lower energy costs as a result of unexpired we are seeing a renewed emphasis on compliance with hedges, we expect to see an improving situation as the the established National and European guidelines for new financial year progresses.
Meanwhile the increased decontamination services.
In addition new guidance for costs of materials caused by the devaluation of Sterling dental services has been published requiring compliance have impacted margins in the rest of the Healthcare with higher standards and this too is beginning to add solutions business as a large number of products and to the overall demand for our services.
We currently materials are purchased in US Dollars.
To offset this have an open bid book of around 20 million annualised we are increasing prices and continuing to shed costs and we expect to see continued strong demand for as actively as possible.
Margins have begun to recover our services given the increasing regulatory demands and provided we have the benefit of some economic in the UK.
stability we expect to see continued improvement throughout the new financial year.
Although we continue to engage with the National Decontamination Programme NDP on a small Prospects for our infection control products remain number of projects, this programme is in the process promising following excellent results from a long of being wound down having fulfilled its role of term, 30 week clinical study at the Manchester catalysing the development of an outsourced market.
The use of AzoMaxActive, our range We remain actively engaged with three NDP projects.
of biocidal hard surface cleaners, has been shown to dramatically outperform the NHS current gold Sterilisation services standard products for controlling the patient Sterilisation services has performed well despite environment and reducing the risk of healthcare having been impacted by the reduction in demand for associated infections.
The study will be published its industrial electron beam services.
Sales and margins shortly and we expect this to drive demand for our have been maintained.
The UK market for sterilisation products in a 135 million European market.
services is relatively mature however, as the UK becomes a less attractive market for medical Our pathology and microbiology lab business has been device manufacturing.
one of the prime casualties of the economic downturn.
Around half of our business is provided to commercial businesses which have reduced pre-employment and ongoing employment screening.
Demand for our rapid MRSA screening service has improved but is falling short of expectations with the NHS finding it difficult to fund this service despite the proven benefits of doing so.
Decontamination services At the start of this reported year we won a number of contracts in quick succession with a limited number subsequently underperforming in volume terms.
Those contracts that were behind on volume are now operating on the minimum service payment from this year.
Meanwhile we have gone on to win contracts in three acute hospital, eight Primary Care Trust PCT services and three private Independent Sector Treatment Centres ISTC services that have all been implemented and are operating to plan.
Business review 18 Business review Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Operations review Rest of Europe The Rest of Europe performed well with sales up Healthcare solutions 24.1% to 111.4 million benefiting from good organic The European business again grew well with the benefit growth as well as the strength of the Euro against of last years small bolt-on acquisitions as well as Sterling with underlying organic growth at 5.2%.
Our infection control Market conditions remain positive for outsourcing products are sold through distributors and during although driven primarily by a need for healthcare the year we increased our investment in the support customers to achieve cost savings.
As such it is slightly we provide our partners, and this resulted in an less attractive for Synergy than other markets such as accelerated growth of our European sales.
Europe the UK and Asia, where the trend is being driven by continues to be one of our main areas of focus given regulatory pressure to improve quality.
The European the importance that hospitals place on minimising business was also affected by increased commodity healthcare acquired infections.
and energy charges but to a much lesser extent than the UK.
As a result, operating profits, before Decontamination services amortisation of intangibles, share scheme charges The trend towards outsourcing hospital sterilisation and nonrecurring items, increased by 15.7% to services in Europe remains positive but hampered by 19.6 million but reflecting a decrease in operating the imposition of VAT on outsourced labour costs.
result the European markets have been slower to develop than the UK particularly as the primary driver 2009 2008 % for outsourcing in certain markets such as Germany has 000 000 change been cost savings.
We continue to prioritise the Dutch Sales 111,440 89,805 24.1 and Belgian markets for the time being where we have 1 models of best practice established.
Adjusted operating profit 19,594 16,930 15.7 Sterilisation services Sales growth within Europe has been reasonable given Revenue m the wider economic climate.
The full operation of our 111.4 recently opened Dutch facility in Venlo, together with 89.8 the new electron beam service to be opened in the 24.1% first quarter in Ireland, will see improved growth in 60.1 the new financial year.
Our focus on developing global 49.2 36.2 partnerships with medical device manufacturers ties in well with our strategy to selectively increase capacity in Europe for higher value added medical device manufacturing, whilst providing high quality 05 06 07 08 09 sterilisation capacity in Asia for lower value added 1 medical device manufacturing.
Operating profit m 19.6 16.9 15.7% 9.8 7.3 5.0 05 06 07 08 09 1 Before amortisation of intangibles, share scheme charges and non-recurring items.
19 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Asia and South Africa In both Asia and South Africa we operate primarily The new sterilisation facility in Suzhou, China will commercial sterilisation services for the medical device begin operations this summer.
This impressive new and other industrial markets.
Sales of 8.0 million facility makes a clear statement of our ambitions for were up 26.5%, with operating profits, before the Chinese market and has been warmly welcomed amortisation of intangibles, share scheme charges by our established international customer base.
We are and non-recurring items, increasing by 43.8% to currently validating the site operations and expect to 2.9 million.
Underlying organic sales growth was begin customer validations by the end of the summer at 16.6%.
Operating margins improved by 4.4% following ISO certification in the middle of June.
A new combined sterilisation and decontamination facility will begin operations during Decontamination services the summer enabling us to continue to benefit from Within Suzhou, Synergy has now built Chinas first the positive market dynamics in Asia.
commercial hospital sterilisation super centre which will service up to ten hospitals.
Validation is now largely Sterilisation services complete and again we expect to start services in the Our commercial sterilisation services operate from summer, slightly later than planned.
established facilities in South Africa, Malaysia and Thailand.
All three countries have performed well The new regulatory guidance for decontamination reflecting the wider growth of the medical devices services has now been published and recommends market.
Our strategy to widen our available market outsourcing as one possible route to achieving the to the food decontamination sector has served us required higher standards.
In addition the Chinese well with notable recent successes in Thailand.
Government has recently announced that it will double investment in healthcare from 2009 to 2011 increasing expenditure to 5.7% of GDP.
As a result we 2009 2008 % regard the Chinese market as one of our key priorities 000 000 change for the coming years accepting that there remains some Sales 7,992 6,316 26.5 risk until scale is achieved.
1 Adjusted operating profit 2,927 2,036 43.8 Revenue m 8.0 6.3 Richard Steeves 26.5% Chief Executive 1.4 07 08 09 1 Operating profit m 2.9 43.8% 2.0 0.4 07 08 09 1 Before amortisation of intangibles, share scheme charges and non-recurring items.
