14 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 OPERATING REVI EW GROUP PERFORMANCE Pictured left: Cookson is a leading materials science company Steel manufacturing process.
Global steel production is the main operating on a worldwide basis in Ceramics, end-market of Cooksons Ceramics business.
Electronics and Precious Metals markets.
Pictured centre: A printed circuit board ready for assembly solder paste from Cookson aims to add value to customers Assembly Materials or Alpha applied on solder pads with the pad surface businesses by providing products, processes finish provided by Enthone.
Pictured right: and services that allow them to increase the Jewellery components exhibiting the breath of the manufacturing efficiency and quality of their operations.
capabilities of Cooksons Precious Metals business.
co. uk 2009 was marked by a progressive recovery in the performance of The return on sales margin in 2009 decreased to 5.7% from 9.8% the Groups businesses, albeit still not back to the levels experienced for 2008 at reported exchange rates.
Encouragingly, the return prior to the onset of the global economic crisis.
The first quarter on sales margin in the second half of 2009 was 9.2% first half of 2009 saw a continuation of the trends in the fourth quarter of 2009: 1.8%.
2008, when the Group experienced a rapid and significant softening Headline profit before tax decreased by 57% to 75.7m.
Headline in its end-markets, including an unprecedented reduction in global earnings per share were down 80% to 18.0p, reflecting the lower steel production, combined with weaker automotive and consumer profitability and an 80% increase in the weighted average number of electronics markets.
Despite these difficult trading conditions, the shares as a result of the rights issue in March 2009. prompt action taken to reduce the Groups cost base enabled trading Exceptional charges net of tax, excluded from headline results, profit to remain at break-even during the first quarter of 2009.
As the totalled 90.7m, principally relating to the one-off costs associated year progressed, a number of the Groups key end-markets started to with the cost-reduction programmes implemented in all three divisions.
pick up, notably electronics end-markets since late March and global A first phase of immediate measures was executed in the last quarter steel production end-markets since May.
This, combined with the of 2008.
Further steps were initiated through the first half of 2009, increased benefit of cost savings as a result of management action the majority of which were completed by the third quarter.
These across all three divisions, meant that the Groups trading results included the permanent closure of eight manufacturing facilities and improved each quarter as the year progressed.
the substantial downsizing of three others together with significant Group revenue in 2009 of 1,961m was 21% lower than 2008 at cuts in production and overhead headcount, mainly in Europe and constant exchange rates and down 11% at reported exchange rates.
Over the same period the integration of Foseco Underlying revenue being revenue at constant currency: as if Foseco acquired in April 2008 was successfully completed, delivering cost had been acquired on 1 January rather than 4 April 2008: adjusted for savings in excess of the original target.
Altogether, these measures the impact of differences in commodity metal prices: and eliminating reduced Group headcount by almost 20% and reduced the annual back-to-back customer equipment sales was 24% lower than 2008. cost base by over 65m compared to the September 2008 level.
In the first half, underlying revenue was 32% lower than in 2008 but Net debt as at 31 December 2009 was 3 71.4m, a 360.3m reduction with the gradual improvement in a number of the Groups key endfrom the 731.7m as at 31 December 2008.
This significant decrease markets as the year progressed, combined with easier comparatives arose from both the 241m net proceeds from the rights issue in for the fourth quarter, underlying revenue in the second half was 15% March and from strong cash generation resulting from the actions lower than the second half of 2008.
Notably, underlying revenue in taken to conserve cash.
These included programmes to reduce the second half of 2009 was 13% higher than the first half of 2009. levels of working capital, tight control of capital expenditure, and Revenue for the Group was well balanced geographically with 39% the suspension of dividends and UK pension top-up contributions.
coming from the Groups operations in Europe, 27% from AsiaThe net debt to EBITDA ratio as calculated for bank purposes was Pacific, 27% from NAFTA and 7% from Rest of the World.
2.3 times as at 31 December 2009 compared to the bank covenant Trading profit in 2009 reduced significantly to 111.7m, a decrease requirement of not more than 3.5 times.
of 54% at constant exchange rates and 48% at reported exchange rates.
The majority of the trading profit, 95.2m, was earned in the second half, with only 16.5m earned in the first half.
Trading profit for 2009 at constant exchange rates in the Ceramics and Electronics divisions was down 62% and 35% respectively from 2008, whilst trading profit in the Precious Metals division almost doubled up by 3.8m.
16 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 OPERATING REVI EW CONTINUED CERAMICS Pictured far left: Trading under the Vesuvius and Foseco brand names, Foundry casting process.
Pictured centre left: the Ceramics division is the world leader in the supply Semi-finished refractory pouring tube used to control steel flow.
of advanced consumable products and systems to the Pictured centre right: The application of a Surshot65A global steel industry c. 55% of revenue and foundry shotcrete lining in a rotary cement kiln.
industry c. 33% of revenue and a le ading supplier of Pictured far right: Fused silica tempering rollers speciality products to the glass and solar industries.
co. uk The Ceramics division experienced very difficult trading conditions Excluding China, steel production in 2009 was 22% lower than during the year although steel production end-markets did show 2008: 35% lower in the first half and 7% lower in the second half some improvement in the second half.
Revenue of 1,131m was 11% when compared to the equivalent halves in 2008.
Following the lower than for 2008.
On an underlying basis at constant exchange unprecedented collapse in steel production in the fourth quarter rates and as if Foseco had been acquired on 1 January 2008, revenue of 2008, steel production excluding China in the first quarter of was down 28%.
Underlying revenue was 35% lower in the first half 2009 remained depressed with production down 37% compared to of 2009 compared with 2008, but with the improvement in steelthe corresponding quarter in 2008.
However, since May, production related product lines as the year progressed increased by 11% in the levels have improved steadily such that production excluding China second half compared to the first half of 2009. was 32% higher in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the first quarter of 2009 with increases in all key regions.
This increase in Trading profit in 2009 reduced significantly to 70.9m, a decrease steel production is believed to mark the end of the fide-stocking phase of 62% at constant exchange rates and 58% at reported exchange and the progressive realignment of steel production to underlying rates.
The majority of the trading profit, 59.5m, was earned in the demand.
Whilst this improvement in steel production is encouraging, second half due to the strong profit drop-through on the additional production levels in most regions are still significantly lower than revenue most notably from the steel-related product lines levels seen in recent years.
For example, global production excluding combined with the increased benefit of cost savings from facility China in the fourth quarter of 2009 represented only 82% of the closures and restructuring.
The return on sales margin was 6.3% production levels seen in the second quarter of 2008. compared to 13.3% in 2008 with margins of 2.1% in the first half of 2009 and 10.1% in the second half.
The foundry castings market, which represents around one-third of the divisions revenue, produces castings which are used in a wide Following the restructuring and integration initiatives in the first three variety of engineering products.
Approximately 40% of castings quarters of 2009, there has been some re-manning of production and therefore a similar percentage of the revenue for the Foundry facilities in the fourth quarter as activity levels increased and, as a product line relate to the vehicle sector, being 25% for cars and light result, Ceramics headcount at the end of December 2009 was around trucks and 15% for heavy trucks.
Other end-markets for foundry 1,900 lower than at September 2008, a reduction of 15%.
castings include construction, agriculture and mining machinery: Global steel production is the divisions main end-market power generation equipment, pipes and valves: railroad and general corresponding to a little over half of its total revenue.
The foundry castings market deteriorated the World Steel Association, global steel production in 2009 was significantly towards the end of 2008 with the unprecedented 1.2 billion tonnes, 8% lower than for 2008.
Within this total, steel reduction in automotive and heavy truck production particularly in production in China which currently accounts for just under half the US and Europe and the widespread cut in production of other of global steel production was 13% higher.
However, market trends engineering products.
outside of China are more significant for the Ceramics division in For light vehicles, for example, this trend continued throughout the the short-term as China currently accounts for less than 10% of the first half of 2009 with JD Power statistics showing production of light divisions steel-related revenue.
In the Steel Flow Control product vehicles in the first half of 2009 compared to the corresponding line, for which global steel production represents almost 100% of the period in 2008 being down 33% in Western Europe, 50% down in end-market, China represents slightly less than 20% of total global North America and 30% down in the rest of the world excluding revenue as the majority of steel production in China is not currently China.
In the second half of 2009, production levels of light vehicles based on the enclosed continuous casting technology which uses improved, stimulated by government sponsored vehicle replacement Vesuvius flow control products.
Whilst there is significant installed schemes in a number of countries including the US, Germany and capacity for the production of flat steel which uses Vesuvius the UK.
As a result, light vehicle production for the year as a whole products, currently around 70% of actual steel production is for was down 19% in Western Europe, 32% down in North America and long products which are typically used in construction and rail 17% down in the rest of the world excluding China.
Whilst the level applications which require significantly fewer flow control products.
of global vehicle production did recover in the second half of 2009 The use of enclosed continuous casting is expected to increase this is yet to have a significant impact on revenue due to fide-stocking over time as the Chinese steel industry continues to modernise and through the supply chain.
Global truck production has remained at demand for flat steel product increases.
In the Linings product very low levels throughout 2009, being 30% lower than in 2008.
The line, for which steel production represents around two-thirds of the other end-markets mentioned above also typically exhibit more late end-market, there is only modest revenue arising in China as yet cycle characteristics and are yet to show signs of a pick-up.
as this market has only recently been addressed, but this business is expected to grow over the coming years with the newly formed Angang Vesuvius Refractories joint venture.
18 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 OPERATING REVI EW CONTINUED The principal products in the Fused Silica product line are tempering LININGS rollers used mainly in the production of glass for construction and Linings includes products and services that enable our customers automotive applications, and Solar Crucibles which are used in plants to withstand the effects of extreme temperatures or erosive the production of photovoltaic solar panels.
The business manufactures castables, gunning have experienced very difficult trading conditions during the year materials, ramming mixes, pre-cast shapes, tap hole clay, bricks, with weak end-market demand exacerbated by a sharp fide-stocking mortars, and provides construction and installation services.
of solar panels, particularly in China.
However, the fourth quarter Global steel production represents around 70% of the end-market of 2009 did see some small improvement in the demand for Solar for Linings products and services with the remainder arising from a Crucibles indicating that the fide-stocking phase for solar panels variety of non-steel markets including the cement, lime, aluminium, was probably coming to an end.
power generation, petrochemical and waste incineration industries.
In the product line analysis below, all financial information is Underlying revenue in the Linings product line fell by 21% to 388m.
presented on an underlying basis i. e. at constant currency and This principally reflected the reduced level of maintenance and newas if Foseco had been acquired with effect from 1 January 2008. build activity in the steel industry, as steel production levels fell References to profitability of individual product lines refers to the sharply particularly in the first half of the year and a number relative contribution they make to the trading profit of the division of customer facilities were temporarily closed.
The level of activity before centralised divisional costs.
in non-steel markets was also relatively subdued as a result of the STEEL FLOW CONTROL global economic downturn.
This product line is more project-based The Steel Flow Control product line provides a full range of products than the others and therefore benefited in the first half of the year and services to control, regulate and protect the flow of steel in from an order backlog of maintenance projects.
Underlying revenue the enclosed continuous casting process.
Products include VISO was 25% lower in the first half of 2009 and 16% lower in the second and VAPEX products, slide-gate and tube changer systems and half of 2009 when compared to the equivalent halves in 2008. refractories, gas purging and temperature control devices and Underlying revenue in the second half of 2009 was 5% higher than mould and tundish fluxes.
the first half of 2009, a less marked improvement than for Steel Flow Control as some of the order backlog was worked down.
Global steel production represents almost 100% of the end-market for Steel Flow Control products and services.
Underlying revenue in Underlying profit contribution fell by just under half compared to Steel Flow Control of 366m fell by 25% compared to 2008, broadly 2008, with a small contribution in the first half of the year but an in line with the reduction in steel production in the key markets in increased contribution in the second half, due to the increased benefit which Vesuvius operates.
Underlying revenue in the first half of of cost-savings and the marginally higher revenue.
The contribution 2009 was 38% lower than the first half of 2008 but increased 29% margin in the second half of 2009 was only one percentage point in the second half.
Underlying profit contribution reduced by nearly lower than for full year 2008. half compared to 2008 with a small contribution in the first half but a As part of the cost-cutting measures noted above, two linings more substantial contribution in the second half as steel production facilities were closed permanently by the end of the third quarter started to increase and more cost-savings were captured.
There was of 2009, namely Hautrage in Belgium and Brownsville Texas in the strong profit contribution drop-through on the additional revenue US, and the pre-cast monolithic activities at the facility in Conneaut and the contribution margin in the second half of 2009 was broadly Ohio have either been discontinued or transferred to another consistent with that achieved in full year 2008. facility.
The cost-cutting measures noted above include the permanent The terms of the 50 50 Linings joint venture with Anshan Iron and closure of three steel flow control facilities, namely Newmilns in the Steel Corporation Group Angang, one of Chinas largest steel UK, Fisher Illinois in the US and Emmerich in Germany.
producers, were finalised in July 2009.
Production from a newly Production from the additional production line in Ostend, Belgium, built facility, of which Vesuvius share of the investment was 5m, which became operational at the end of 2008, increased gradually commenced progressively in the second half of 2009, thereby during the year.
Production of some Steel Flow Control products has enhancing our linings capacity in this important region.
been reallocated from our other European factories to this automated facility to yield significant overall productivity gains.
Projects are ongoing during 2010 to increase capacity in our Chinese and Indian facilities in order to meet the continuing growth in demand in these countries.
co. uk FOUNDRY FUSED SILICA The Foundry product line is a leading supplier of products and The principal products in the Fused Silica product line are Solar services to the foundry industry worldwide and trades under the Crucibles used in the manufacture of photovoltaic solar Foseco brand name.
Products include feeding systems, filters, panels and tempering rollers used in the glass industry.
metal treatments, metal transfer systems, crucibles, stoppers, Underlying revenue fell by 29% to 57m in 2009, with difficult sand binders, coatings and moulding materials.
market conditions in both principal end-markets.
Underlying revenue in the Foundry product line fell by 37% to 320m Solar Crucible revenue fell by 17% in 2009 reflecting a severe fidein 2009 reflecting the very significant decrease in global casting stocking of solar panels, particularly in China.
Revenue in the third production and as fide-stocking took place throughout the supply quarter was particularly weak although some modest improvement chain.
Underlying revenue was 42% lower in the first half of 2009 in revenue was seen in the fourth quarter as the fide-stocking phase and 32% lower in the second half of 2009 when compared to the appeared to be coming to an end and, as a result, underlying revenue equivalent halves in 2008.
The significant fall in revenue started for Solar Crucibles in the second half of 2009 was 5% lower than slightly later than for the Steel Flow Control product line and, whilst for the first half of 2009. revenue levels did start to pick up slowly towards the end of the Revenue for tempering rollers and other speciality products used third quarter, there has not yet been the same level of recovery in in the manufacture of glass fell 39% in 2009 due to weakness in revenue as has been evident in the steel-related product lines.
As a the construction and automotive sectors.
Underlying revenue in the result underlying revenue in the second half of 2009 was only very second half of 2009 was 17% lower than for the first half of 2009. marginally ahead of the first half of 2009 up 3%, reflecting the more late cycle characteristics of the end-markets.
The Fused Silica product line reported a small profit contribution for the year, over 70% lower than for 2008.
The contribution improved Foundrys profit contribution for the year was over 80% lower slightly in the second half due to the increased benefit of costthan for 2008.
The profit contribution was just above break-even savings more than offsetting the lower revenue.
in the first half with some modest improvement in the second half, notwithstanding the broadly unchanged revenue, due to the To better align production capacity with end-market demand for increased benefit of cost-savings.
Solar Crucibles, the facility in Hautrage, Belgium was closed permanently and headcount at the facility in Feignes, France, was As part of the series of cost-cutting measures noted above, the reduced by around one-third.
Production at the factory in Wei Ting, foundry facilities in Tlalnepantla, Mexico and Chehalis Washington, China was halted for a period in mid-year due to market conditions US were closed permanently in 2009 and the Halifax, UK facility but recommenced in the third quarter.
20 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED ELECTRONICS Pictured far left: The Electronics division is a world leading supplier SACX 0807 alloy low silver lead-free solder product used in of consumable electronic assembly materials the PCB assembly.
Pictured left: Assembly Materials product line to assemblers of Alpha CVP520 lead-free, low temperature solder paste PCBs and the semi-conductor packaging industry with preform.
The paste allows customers to eliminate wave soldering of temperatureand advanced surface treatment and electro-plating sensitive components.
chemicals the Chemistry product line to the electronics industry and for industrial and automotive applications.
co. uk Revenue for 2009 was 530m, 25% lower at constant exchange ASSEMBLY MATERIALS rates 15% lower at reported rates when compared to 2008.
The Revenue for the year at 308m was 29% lower than 2008 at constant lower revenue partially reflects the pass through to customers exchange rates 20% lower at reported exchange rates.
Excluding the of lower tin and silver prices, the Assembly Materials product lines impact of passing through lower tin and silver prices in 2009, underlying major raw materials.
In 2009, the average prices of tin and silver revenue was 22% lower than last year at constant exchange rates were respectively 31% and 6% lower than for 2008, such that reflecting the significant slowdown in the production of electronic approximately 42m of the divisions revenue decrease was as equipment which started in the fourth quarter of 2008, combined with a result of these lower metal prices.
Excluding both the impact of the continuation of the strategy to focus on higher margin, more valuelower metal prices in Assembly Materials and precious metal sales added products and reduce sales of more commoditised products.
For and back-to-back electro-plating equipment sales in Chemistry, solder products, sales of higher margin, more value-added products underlying revenue was 20% lower than 2008 at constant rates.
such as solder paste were less affected, with volumes unchanged The slowdown in demand started in the last quarter of 2008 and between years, whereas volumes for the more commoditised products reflected both a weakening in end-markets notably for consumer such as bar solder were down 30%.
This trend reflected the continuing electronics and automotive and a marked fide-stocking of components shift from wave soldering to surface mount technology for the and finished products within the supply chain.
However, since late production of PCBs.
The recycling, reclaim business has continued its March, electronic materials end-markets progressively improved as recent volume growth, particularly in China where the new facility in customer fide-stocking came to an end and end-markets recovered.
Guangxi Province became operational at the end of 2008.
The transfer According to Henderson Ventures, electronic equipment production of European solder paste production from Ashford, UK to Hungary was worldwide, which had experienced high single-digit annual growth completed at the end of the third quarter of 2009. rates in the five years preceding the downturn in late 2008, reduced Underlying revenue was 33% lower in the first half of 2009 compared by 11% by value in 2009 compared to 2008.
Two of the key products with the first half of 2008 but increased by 19% in the second half within the consumer electronics market are mobile phone handsets compared to the first half of 2009, reflecting both the improvement and personal computers.
Mobile phone handset volumes were down in trading conditions and also the normal seasonality of the business.
3% compared to 2008 following 7% growth in 2008 whilst personal computer volumes, including laptops and netbooks, were up 5% Profit contribution for 2009 was some 41% lower than for 2008 at compared to 2008 following 8% growth in 2008.
Industrial and constant exchange rates with a small contribution in the first half automotive end-markets remained generally weak throughout 2009. but a more substantial contribution in the second half.
Underlying revenue was 32% lower in the first half of 2009 compared CHEMISTRY with the first half of 2008 but then increased 19% in the second half Revenue for the year of 222m was 18% lower than 2008 at constant compared to the first half of 2009, reflecting both the improvement exchange rates 7% lower at reported exchange rates.
Excluding in trading conditions and also the normal seasonality of the business.
precious metal sales and back-to-back electro-plating equipment Trading profit in 2009 reduced to 39.2m, a decrease of 35% at sales, underlying revenue was 18% lower than last year at constant exchange rates.
Sales of plating-on-plastics and corrosion and wearconstant exchange rates and 24% at reported exchange rates.
The majority of the trading profit, 32.9m, was earned in the second half resistant coating products for industrial and automotive markets were down 22%, whilst sales of surface coating products serving the of the year due to the strong profit drop-through on the additional revenue complemented by a better mix of sales of higher margin PCB fabrication market within electronics were down 21%, reflecting the difficult trading environment in these markets particularly in products such as solder pastes and copper damascene, as well as the increased benefit of cost savings.
The return on sales margin was the earlier part of the year.
Copper damascene sales into the semiconductor market were well ahead of 2008.
7.4% compared to 8.3% in 2008 with margins of 2.6% in the first half of 2009 and 11.3% in the second half.
If metal prices in 2009 had Underlying revenue was 31% lower in the first half of 2009 compared been at similar levels to those in 2008, the return on sales margin with the first half of 2008 but increased by 20% in the second half would have been approximately half a percentage point less.
compared to the first half of 2009, reflecting both the improvement Asia-Pacific, the divisions largest region, accounted for 43% of in electronic materials end-markets and also normal seasonality.
revenue in 2009 by location of customer, broadly in line with 2008.
Profit contribution for 2009 was just under 23% lower than for 2008 at constant exchange rates.
A small profit contribution was reported As a result of the cost reduction measures the total headcount in the first half, whilst the more substantial contribution in the second reduction by December 2009 compared to September 2008 was half of 2009 was higher than either the first or second halves of 2008. around 400 people, 12% of the total workforce.
The largest impact has been in the European operations.
With the continued growth of Chinas electronic materials, automotive and industrial end-markets, the construction of the References to profitability of product lines below refer to the new 10m Chemistry facility in Shanghai, which had been delayed relative contribution they make to divisional trading profit before through 2009, was started in the first quarter of 2010 with expected centralised divisional costs.
Currently the China market is served from Cookson facilities in Shenzen, Tianjin and Singapore.
22 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED PRECIOUS METALS Pictured far left: The Precious Metals division is a leading supplier of Samples of the finished jewellery capabilities of Cookson Precious Metals, evidencing its raw fabricated precious metals primarily gold, silver and materials and components capabilities.
platinum to the jewellery industry in the US, UK, France Pictured left: and Spain and also has significant precious metal Precious metal coin blanks that are manufactured by Cookson within strict guidelines for the US recycling operations in Europe.
materials, semi-finished jewellery components and finished jewellery.
co. uk The Precious Metals division operates in two distinct geographic Trading profit for 2009 at 8.9m was some 75% higher than 2008 regions: the US, which constituted 47% of the total net sales value at constant exchange rates nearly double at reported exchange being revenue excluding the precious metals content for the rates with improved profitability in both the US and Europe.
The US division, and Europe which is focused on the UK, France and Spain.
benefited from action taken in the first quarter of 2009 to reduce Average precious metal prices in 2009 have been approximately 10% permanent headcount at the US production facility by one-fifth, and higher than last year for gold but lower for silver and platinum 6% the continued relocation of production to the Dominican Republic and 27% lower respectively.
The gold price was relatively stable facility, which opened in 2008.
There has been some re-manning during the first three quarters of 2009 but rose significantly during of the US production facility in the fourth quarter as activity levels the fourth quarter such that it ended 2009 nearly one-quarter higher increased and, as a result, US headcount at the end of December than at the beginning of the year.
2009 was around 15% lower than at September 2008.
European profitability reflected the benefits of earlier restructuring and the Net sales value of 133m was unchanged compared to 2008 at high level of reclaim business, particularly in Spain.
Trading profit for constant exchange rates 13% higher at reported exchange rates.
the division as a whole was 2.3m in the first half of the year and Weaker retail jewellery markets due to consumer spending cutbacks, 6.6m in the second half, reflecting both the normal seasonality of were offset by strong sales to the US Mint of gold coin blanks and the business and the impact of the restructuring of the US operations higher levels of precious metal reclaim in Europe, stimulated by the in the first quarter.
