Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report 15 Weir Minerals Division Operational review 1 Divisional results Weir Minerals Division is the global leader in the provision of slurry handling equipment and associated spare parts for abrasive high Order Input wear applications.
Mining and minerals is the divisions largest sector but it also has aligned product sales into the niche markets of oil 718m Down 20% sands and flue gas desulphurisation FGD.
Products include pumps, hydro cyclones, valves, fide-watering equipment and wear resistant Revenue linings.
Specialised engineering resource and ongoing investment in wear resistant materials technology and engineered hydraulics 813m ensure delivery of world-class performance in customer critical Down 1% mining and minerals applications.
The division is fully operational in the key mining markets, including South America, Australia, Africa Operating profit and North America.
133.6m Up 2% Market review The global economic downturn and associated decline in Sector input breakdown commodity prices resulted in difficult market conditions in 2009.
Minerals 70% A number of existing mine sites were mothballed, principally in Power Generation North America and Australia and many major new projects were 9% Oil & Gas deferred as customers sought to conserve cash and strengthen 9% General Industry their balance sheets although enquiry levels and preliminary 9% scoping work did increase towards the end of the year.
While Other 3% commodity production volumes were lower in the early part of the year, there was a notable improvement in the second half supported by investment in Asian infrastructure.
This, together with increased enquiry levels for new capital projects in the latter part Geographic input breakdown of 2009, indicates that we have seen a bottoming of the market.
North America The FGD and oil sands markets were also adversely impacted by 22% South America a more cautious approach to new projects, although we did see a 22% Australia number of follow-on orders in respect of existing oil sands projects.
17% Middle East Africa 16% Achievements & contract wins Europe FSU 12% Completed design work on a number of pump enhancements which will be launched Asia Pacific 11% in 2010.
Commenced development of new larger facilities for Weir Multiflo in Australia reflecting the doubling in size of that business since it was acquired in 2007.
Weir Minerals Netherlands won a substantial order in excess of m10m to supply a number of Geho pumps to the Chinese-owned Toromocho copper mine in Peru.
Weir Minerals Chile won an extensive multi-million dollar Service Maintenance Contract with Minera Escondida, the worlds largest copper mine, in Antofagasta, Chile.
Weir Minerals Europe won the Dense Slurry System project for the Romania - Craiova 1 power plant, as a result of the Warman pumps ability to withstand high abrasion and transport slurry distances of up to seven kilometres.
1 Statements in respect of divisional performance are Weir Minerals Australia was awarded a contract worth nearly AUS$5m with MCC on a constant currency basis with operating profits stated before intangibles amortisation Mining Australia for their Sino Iron Project in Cape Preston, Western Australia.
16 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Weir Minerals Division Operational review continued We continue to invest in Operational performance product technology, including a Despite difficult market conditions, the division has continued to redesign of all our major pump perform strongly benefiting from improved operating efficiencies, a lines by 2011.
The focus on higher proportion of aftermarket revenues, pro-active management customer relations and global of the cost base and the continued development of the product service underpins our goal to portfolio.
This performance demonstrates the resilience of the remain at the forefront of our divisions business model.
target industries and benefit Order input decreased 20% to 718m 2008: 897m reflecting from the ongoing growth in a 36% decline in original equipment and a 3% reduction in emerging markets.
aftermarket orders, resulting in a higher proportion of aftermarket orders 58% compared to the prior year 2008:48%.
Order Aftermarket input m input trends reflect the divisions broad geographic spread and commodity exposure.
Input in our Netherlands business, which is 500 430.9 420.1 largely driven by major greenfield mining development, was down 400 335.3 44% while our Andean business with a focus on copper mining 300 achieved input growth of 10%.
The success of integrating the 200 2007 acquisition Multiflo was evident with input for that business increasing by 51%.
We experienced a significant reduction in 100 orders for FGD equipment, particularly in North America, pending 2007 2008 2009 clarification of proposed environmental legislation.
Demand for products for the Canadian oil sands market remained strong with follow-on orders booked in the year.
The relative resilience of aftermarket orders reflected the decline in commodity production volumes offset to some extent by an absolute increase in the installed base.
Revenue decreased 1% to 813m 2008: 825m reflecting the strong opening order book, a full year contribution from the CH Warman acquisition and more robust shorter cycle aftermarket input trends.
Our global footprint continues to drive increasing exposure to emerging markets which represented 52% of revenues in 2009 compared to 46% in 2008, with further good progress in both South America and Africa.
Operating profit increased by 2% to 133.6m 2008: 130.4m reflecting a full year benefit from CH Warman, now successfully integrated, and the impact of stronger operating margins offset by restructuring and one-off costs of 5.5m.
Operating margins improved to 16.4% 2008: 15.8% primarily reflecting a higher proportion of aftermarket sales and the success of our pro-active approach to downturn planning which resulted in tangible cost savings in operations, procurement and manufacturing.
The division also benefited from further development of Lean best practices in all of our facilities worldwide.
17 Investment Weir in action The divisions success is underpinned by ongoing investment in materials and product Customer technology as well as in operating facilities to ensure that we maintain our market Newmont Mining owns and operates two gold leading position in terms of quality and delivery.
Recognising the need to respond mines at Waihi on New Zealands North Island to the changing geographic profile of the global mining market, we continue to and gold has been mined in the area for over invest in growing our presence in the emerging markets of South America and Asia.
These mines share a processing Capital expenditure in 2009 totalled 29.7m 2008: 32.2m and included a new mill, which consists of primary crushing with SAG state-of-the-art foundry in Brasil which features the latest concepts in manufacturing, and ball mill circuits employing multiple Warman quality and safety procedures.
AH pumps and Cavex hydrocyclones.
Investment in technology included the implementation of our Wear Fundamentals Programme which has enabled us to derive significant performance improvements from the core Warman Slurry Pump product.
Design work was completed on several new products in 2009 and 2010 will see these launched to the market.
In addition, the culmination of two years of product development work by the Netherlands business has resulted in the launch of the Apexs pump, which expands the GEHO positive displacement product range.
The initial application of this technology is in mine dewatering applications.
People Our employees remain at the heart of the business and it is their engineering and operational skills which provide the competitive advantage.
We continued to invest in our people through the economic downturn with a number of representatives from the division attending the Weir Group Leadership Development programme.
Outlook Aerial view of the Newmont Minings New Zealand gold mines While project enquiry levels are up and major miners have announced planned increases in their 2010 capital expenditure levels, we remain cautious as to the timing of conversion Brief into original equipment orders.
Furthermore product lead times dictate that any resultant The two mines produce ore with differing flow through to revenues will not be evident until later in 2010.
These factors together degrees of abrasiveness.
Waihis Favona with our lower opening order book mean that original equipment revenues are likely to be underground mines ore is almost four times lower through the first part of 2010.
Aftermarket sales have now stabilised and we would more abrasive than the ore from the Martha expect these to grow in line with underlying commodity production trends determined by open pit.
These differences create irregular commodity prices and global economic growth.
They will also benefit from our growing wear rates and cause other maintenance installed base of original equipment.
The medium term outlook for the division remains requirements at the mill.
Pump rebuilds were positive, reflecting growing emerging market demand for resources.
costly in terms of repair time, replacement parts and labour and Newmont Mining needed a longer-lasting solution to meet the varying demands of the different ores.
Solution Weir Minerals provided its newly designed TM WRT wear reduction technology streamlined impellers and throatbush for the customers existing Warman pumps, enabling the use of longer-lasting rubber pump liners.
The results were remarkable a 180% increase in wear life on Favonas more abrasive ore and an 80% increase on Marthas.
Result The efforts of Weir Minerals have allowed the Newmont operation at Waihi to significantly reduce their costs for labour and parts and maintain a more consistent and profitable mill circuit operation.
The innovative enhancements to the Warman impellers at Waihi are being expanded for use in Warman pumps worldwide aimed at helping customers enjoy Cavex hydrocyclones - part of the mill circuit at Waihi similar performance and fiscal results.
18 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Weir Oil & Gas Division Operational review 1 Divisional results Weir Oil & Gas Division designs and manufactures pumps and ancillary equipment for the global upstream and downstream oil Order Input and gas markets and provides substantial aftermarket service and support activities.
The upstream operation which is focused 305m Down 8% in North America specialises in the manufacture of high-pressure well service pumps and related flow control equipment along with Revenue repairs, parts and service of pressure control and upstream rotating equipment.
The downstream business is focused on the design 299m and manufacture to order of centrifugal pumps, mainly used in the Down 7% refining industry.
The divisions principal operations are located in North America, Europe and the Middle East.
Operating profit 52.0m Market review Down 29% During 2009, the North American upstream market experienced a substantial reduction in activity with lower demand for natural Sector input breakdown gas resulting in higher gas storage levels and reduced prices.
At Oil & Gas 97% the mid-year point, rig count had reduced by around 50% before Power Generation 1% starting to slowly recover in the second half, with a notable increase Minerals in the drilling of harsher shale formations.
1% General Industry 1% There was a significant number of project opportunities in the downstream market, principally driven by an expansion of refining capacity in the Middle East, although Middle East service operations were impacted by reduced production volumes.
Geographic input breakdown Achievements & contract wins North America Weir Gabbioneta was one of a few suppliers globally with the capability to design a 47% solution that ensured they could supply API pumps to Totals Floating Production & Middle East Africa 25% Storage vessel.
Europe FSU 22% Weir SPM released the Safety Iron Manifold Trailer, a product which has quickly gained Asia Pacific 5% market acceptance from the majority of North Americas service companies and gained South America considerable market share.
1% Weir Gabbioneta was awarded several major multi-million euro contracts in 2009, totalling nearly e40m and including - API process pumps to OJSC Taneco for a refinery in Russia.
Process pumps for Qafco 5 project in Qatar.
Neste Oil for biodiesel projects in Rotterdam and Singapore.
Totals Floating Production and Storage vessel.
Oil & Gas Services won major contract awards in Aberdeen and the Caspian region extending existing contracts.
1 Statements in respect of divisional performance are on a constant currency basis with operating profits stated before intangibles amortisation Dec Nov Oct Sep Aug Jul Jun May Apr Mar Feb Jan 19 Operational performance The results in 2009 highlight the resilience of our business The division has performed well, taking swift and decisive action model.
With improving upstream to manage costs in response to market conditions while also market conditions in the last driving greater operating efficiencies.
quarter, we are well placed to Order input reduced by 8% to 305m 2008: 332m.
Weir SPM make further progress in 2010. was impacted by the difficult market through much of the year.
This was mitigated by market share gains and improving demand in the final quarter such that input was only 9% lower at 145m US$226m compared to 160m US$250m in 2008.
Our Middle 2009 US rig count East service operation input was lower principally due to the 1,800 reduced activity levels in that region.
These reductions were partly offset by our downstream business, Weir Gabbioneta, 1,400 which performed well achieving good organic growth, with input 1,000 increasing from 89m in 2008 to 101m in 2009.
Revenue decreased 7% to 299m 2008: 323m broadly following 600 the input trend.
Weir SPM finished the year with revenues of 200 131m US$206m against the previous years 176m US$275m, a reduction of 26% which compared favourably with market trends and exceeded our prior expectations of around US$175m.
Revenue performance benefited from Lean improvements giving rise to competitive lead times and the introduction of new products quickly gaining traction.
Weir Gabbioneta played a significant part in mitigating the effect of reduced volumes at Weir SPM with revenues increasing by 56% to 98m 2008: 63m.
Operating profit including joint ventures decreased by 29% to 52.0m 2008: 72.8m due to the combination of Weir SPMs backlog clearance in the first half of 2008 and lower volumes at that business through much of 2009.
Operating margins were 17.4% in 2009 compared to 22.6% in 2008, reflecting the operating leverage effect of lower volumes at Weir SPM, partly offset by our actions to reduce costs at the beginning of 2009 in response to the severity of the downturn.
20 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Weir Oil & Gas Division Operational review continued Investment Weir in action Weir Oil & Gas continued to invest in support of future growth ambitions.
Major investment Customer in Weir SPM included the start up of six new service centres and high pressure pump A voice of customer exercise by Weir SPM test facilities at Fort Worth.
Weir Oil & Gas Edmonton invested in a new vertical boring uncovered market demand for a more durable mill to expand its machining capabilities and service offering.
On 5 March 2010, we and reliable frac manifold trailer to replace further extended our geographic reach and service offering with the AUS$7m acquisition existing competitor equipment which was failing of Petroleum Certification Services, an Australian based specialist certification and prematurely in the harsh pumping environment testing business.
of unconventional gas shale formations during multistage hydraulic fracturing processes.
People We have continued to develop and promote our strong talent base within the division.
During 2009, management training and development activities were carried out in each area of the business and representatives from the division attended the Weir Group Leadership Development Programme.
Outlook Although forward visibility is still limited, the immediate outlook for our upstream business is more positive than at the start of 2009.
This is based on increases in rig counts since they bottomed in mid-2009 and higher demand for aftermarket products and services as the industry moves to harsher shale formations.
We expect any recovery in our Middle East service operations to be slow.
Our downstream order book provides a solid underpinning for 2010, although we anticipate a more challenging environment for new orders.
Weir SPM Fort Worth The medium term outlook for upstream remains strong, with rig counts forecast to continue to rise, an increasing bias towards unconventional drilling and emerging interest in shale Brief fracturing beyond North America.
A leading oil field service company reported a competitors piping and integrals components failing within 20 - 200 hours of installation due to vibration.
Other customers had concerns over high wear rates during high pressure pumping and sought an alternative to reduce replacement costs.
Solution Weir SPM analysed existing designs and created a solution utilising its patented Safety Iron, high-pressure flow line product.
The offering included both retrofit kits for existing trailers and complete new manifold trailers.
Result To date, Safety Iron manifold trailers and retrofit kits have been utilised by many of the oil field service pressure pumping companies.
Weir SPM engineered special hybrid Safety Iron components that can be installed into key stress areas in the existing flow lines of the customers trailer.
The new integrals achieved over 1,000 hour life with no issues saving the customer thousands of dollars in replacement cost and increasing the utilisation rate of the manifold trailer.
Weir SPM Safety Iron manifold trailer Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report 21 Weir Power & industrial Division Operational review 1 Divisional results Weir Power & Industrial Division designs, manufactures and provides aftermarket support for specialist and critical-service rotating and Order Input flow control equipment to the global power generation, industrial and oil & gas sectors.
The division includes the Groups valve 266m Down 8% operations, a specialist pump business and substantial service and aftermarket operations with locations in Europe, Middle East, North Revenue America, China, India and South Africa.
Three of our facilities have nuclear certification and we are one of only a few companies globally 242m with the capability to provide specialist safety critical valves into the Up 1% nuclear islands of the third generation of nuclear power stations.
Operating profit Market review 23.0m The original equipment power market continued to be generally Up 16% buoyant in Asia but was depressed in Europe and North America, due to new coal power station development being delayed or Sector input breakdown cancelled as a result of funding issues, environmental concerns Power and planning constraints.
The strong Asian market has been 56% General Industry driven by an acceleration in the placement of nuclear new build 18% Oil & Gas contracts in China, now the largest nuclear new build market in the 11% world, as a consequence of the economic stimulus programme Water & Wastewater 11% introduced by the Chinese Government.
Other 4% New coal and nuclear plant delays in Europe and North America have resulted in increased potential for service and life extension projects and demand for hydro refurbishment in Canada has Geographic input breakdown been robust.
North America 41% The global downturn impacted the North American industrial markets Europe FSU which had a direct impact on our Canadian service centres.
33% Asia Pacific 18% Middle East Africa Achievements & contract wins 8% Type approval certification for a new nuclear butterfly valve.
Awarded 33m of orders from the nuclear new build programme in China with supply of critical valves from all three of our nuclear facilities in the UK, France and USA.
Additional contract wins in Libya to supply submersible pump sets for the Sarir Wellfield extension project, which will supply and transport water to towns and industries.
Early completion of a multi-million dollar mechanical overhaul contract at BC Hydro Peace Canyon, British Columbias fourth largest hydro power station.
CAD$600m15-year contract awarded for the maintenance and operation of the Canadian Naval Engineering Test Establishment.
1 Statements in respect of divisional performance are on a constant currency basis with operating profits stated before intangibles amortisation 22 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Weir Power & industrial Division Operational review continued Strong power sector growth Operational performance has offset industrial sector The division has continued to make good progress in developing its decline giving our resilient presence in global power markets with a key focus on the nuclear business a record order book and hydro markets.
Sales to emerging markets, especially China into 2010. are making a growing contribution.
Improving operating margins reflect increased plant utilisation and further operational efficiencies.
Order input declined by 8% to 266m 2008: 289m, with original equipment 18% lower and aftermarket in line with the prior year.
This reflects the timing of large contract awards in the Nuclear order input power markets with the weaker industrial markets being partly 100 offset by increased power station life extension and service work.
83m 71m 80 Overall, the proportion of orders from the power sector continued 60 to grow with some 33m of specialist valve input achieved from the Chinese nuclear new build programme scheduled for delivery 34m 40 in 2011 onwards.
The strong power performance was offset by 20 a decline in industrial and oil and gas orders from Canada and 2007 2008 2009 Europe reflecting weaker market conditions.
Our Canadian service business secured a CAD$600m 15 year contract to operate the Naval Engineering Test Establishment in Montreal providing a solid base load for that business going forward.
Revenue from the power sector increased 19% and now accounts for 56% of divisional revenues 2008: 48%.
This reflects a strong opening order book and increased refurbishment and life extension support to power stations in Europe and North America.
Oil and gas revenues declined 22% as a consequence of a general market downturn in new project activity.
The proportion of the divisions revenue generated from emerging markets increased to 21% compared to 20% in 2008.
Operating profit increased 16% to 23.0m 2008: 19.9m reflecting the flow through of the underlying margin improvement and early returns on the investment in people, technology and plant made in recent years.
Operating margins rose to 9.5% from 8.3% in 2008.
This increase has been driven by increased operational efficiencies, lower product costs and developing supply chain in China.
23 Investment Weir in action Investment in our products and facilities continues to be critical to the future success Customer of the division.
Total capital expenditure in the year was 3.7m 2008: 10.2m.
Qinshan Nuclear Power Station Phase II Further investment has been made in Suzhou, China to expand the range of products extension project is a joint venture between manufactured there and to establish a customer training centre to consolidate our China Nuclear Energy Industries Company and presence in this growing market.
In the UK, we extended the capability and portfolio of China Nuclear Power Engineering and has two services of the Alloa Service Centre in Scotland with investment in the valve workshop: 650 MW reactors under construction.
a new training centre to improve our service offering on pumping equipment and a unique profiling machine for on-site valve maintenance.
People Investment in people is central to our divisional strategy.
During 2009, we created a dedicated nuclear technology forum and sales team to focus on global opportunities and ensure that we continue to have the capabilities to deliver the design, development, testing and qualification of nuclear valves that will meet customer and regulatory qualification standards.
Outlook We enter 2010 with a record order book and the divisions financial performance in 2010 will benefit from a strong nuclear workload.
Whilst we are cautious at the speed of recovery in industrial markets, the outlook for the global nuclear power market is increasingly positive driven by environmental concerns combined with a growing demand for power particularly in Asia.
A significant large-scale and sustained nuclear new build market is projected worldwide.
At the same time, the need for life extension and refurbishment of existing power plants in the UK, Europe and North America will continue to grow given lead times for new build in these markets.
Our global footprint, track record and nuclear expertise means we are well placed to The five-metre Hopkinsons Main Steam Isolation Valve benefit from these opportunities over the medium term.
Brief Before a nuclear station can operate a safety case has to be accepted and the correct functioning of the Main Steam Isolation valve is critical.
The purpose of this quick closing valve is to protect the steam generator in the unlikely event of a pipe break, down stream of the valve.
Solution Hopkinsons 750mm diameter MSIv parallel slide gate valves, at five metres tall, are the largest valves designed and built at Power & Industrials UK valve facility.
The valve is required to close within five seconds of a pipe break being detected.
Weir undertook a combination of analysis and testing, based on the 700mm MSIv supplied to Sizewell B nuclear power station in the UK, which had been subjected to simulated pipe break testing.
Result Weir carried out a detailed Design for Manufacture exercise with key castings and machinist suppliers.
A purpose-built specialist test rig was developed and testing and analytical results all proved the valves quickclosure performance in the highly critical safety related function before the valves were shipped Weirs TRICENTRIC triple offset butterfly valve qualified to ASME QME-1 nuclear standards.
to China during 2009 for the commissioning of ASME American Society of Mechanical Engineers the unit in May 2010.
