Business review 01 33 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5 Operational review Building on the strength of our UK submarine support business, we are investigating a number of opportunities where the scale of our knowledge and expertise can be extended into overseas markets, with Canada being our first major step.
BNS Nuclear Services has a significant market presence in all areas of the civil nuclear market and is well placed to benefit further from growth in the decommissioning market and the new build programme.
Elsewhere in our business, our track record of working in partnership with our customers to provide cost effective solutions has helped us achieve growth through extending the length or scope of existing contracts.
This has also helped us win new contracts and further strengthen our market positions.
We are confident that The award of the 30 year, 1.5 billion Royal School of Military all our markets offer Engineering RSME contract has established Babcock as significant potential for a leader in the provision of Army training support.
have a strong position from which to expand further into the defence training market.
Peter Rogers Chief Executive Across many of the markets in which we operate there is a scarcity of appropriately trained or suitably qualied people.
Our highly skilled and experienced workforce is vital to our continuing success.
We continue to invest heavily in attracting, retaining and developing the talent within our business.
Major emphasis has also been placed on further improving 2008 09 has been another strong year for Babcock.
We have our health and safety record.
Whilst our incident rate continues achieved 22% growth in revenue to 1,901.9 million 2008: to reduce I am disappointed that we have not been able to 1,555.9 million, operating profit has also increased by 22% make better progress in achieving our goal of an accident-free to 147.3 million 2008: 121.1 million and profit before tax Babcock.
I am committed to ensuring everyone in the has grown by 27% to 120.9 million 2008: 95.5 million.
Company works in an environment where safety is the As a result, continuing earnings per share have increased by first priority.
25% to 41.90 pence per share 2008: 33.40 pence per share, a clear demonstration of our continuing success in delivering As well as our leading market positions, the Groups order book, long-term, sustainable growth for our shareholders.
and record bid pipeline give us excellent forward visibility and confidence in the future.
Compared to the same time last We have a clear strategy of growth in our chosen markets, year, the order book has increased by 90% to 5.7 billion both organically and through acquisition.
we successfully completed the integration of the acquisitions we made during 2007 and early 2008 and our results clearly demonstrate the value we have created from them.
The combined businesses give us considerable scale and put us among the leading players in some of our key markets.
Babcock Marine has consolidated its position as the leading support provider to the Royal Navy.
We are now working in long-term partnership with the Ministry of Defence MoD on a number of major maritime before projects to deliver through-life efficiencies and maximum benets for both parties.
Babcock International Group PLC 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operational review continued Objective and strategy Our objective Our objective is to be the leading engineering support services company in the UK and in selected overseas markets thus creating superior levels of returns for our shareholders.
Our strategy In order to achieve this we will develop a balanced portfolio of businesses by focusing on the following strategy: Leading market positions Aim Progress Key examples k Sole provider of support to the Royal Navys submarine eet We expect our businesses to be one During the year we have consolidated of the top three in their market sector.
our leading position in all our divisions k Largest Prime contractor for Defence Estates If they are not they will have clear through acquisitions and major k The sole distributor of Volvo equipment in South Africa plans to achieve this goal.
Preferred customers Aim Progress Key examples We seek to work with customers The majority of our revenue is derived k The MoD is our largest customer in both the Marine and Defence divisions who own large strategically important from our preferred customer base.
k Network Rail, our Rail divisions largest customer, owns and operates assets.
These customers tend to be This is consistent with previous years.
Britains rail infrastructure government departments, public k We provide support to British Energys eet of AGR nuclear power stations bodies or private companies operating k Eskom, the South African power utility in highly regulated markets.
Customer focused, long-term relationships Aim Progress Key examples k Ten year Submarine Engineering Support Contract for Royal Navys We seek to work collaboratively We have been awarded a number submarine eet with our customers to support the of contracts where the emphasis long-term nature of our contracts.
is on long-term partnerships rather k WSMI contracts to provide naval base and water front support than on short-term tasks.
at Devonport and Faslane to 2013 k 30 year RSME training and training support contract k Five year in-service submarine support contract for Canadian government with option to extend to ten years Integrated engineering and technical expertise Aim Progress Key examples We seek to use our skills, integrating The majority of our employees are k The ret of HMS Victorious required 2.2 million skilled engineering man hours engineering and technical expertise technically qualified and their skills to deliver projects and long-term are used to support our customers k Babcock engineers are providing around 50% of the design input asset management.
in the CVF programme k CARE, developed by Networks, is a system which forecasts degradation of steel structures in the electricity transmission and other markets Balance risk and reward Aim Progress Key examples We seek to enter into contracts The Terms of Business Agreement k Successful delivery of the following contracts will ensure maximum benets are shared by Babcock and the MoD that fairly balance the risk and reward ToBA being negotiated with the MoD with our customers, so we can each will move all naval support contracts k HMS Vigilant LOP R share the financial effects of success away from a cost plus to a pain gain k WSMI extension at Devonport or failure.
k East and South West Regional Primes Maintain an excellent safety record Aim Progress Key examples k British Safety Council Sword of Honour Marine We expect all our divisions to deliver During 2008 09 we reduced our a sector-leading safety performance.
Over k RoSPA Gold Award Nuclear, Airports, Networks We believe all our employees and others two years this has reduced by 49%.
k British Safety Council 5 star award Marine working on or visiting our operations k RoSPA Sector Award facilities management Infrastructure Services should be able to return home safe and well at the end of the working day.
k British Safety Council International Award Infrastructure Services, Networks Business review 01 33 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7 Divisional KPIs Measuring our performance The key KPIs for our divisions featured over the following Since 2001 we have consistently achieved growth pages are: in revenue and profits and our objective is to create superior levels of returns for our shareholders.
Operating return on revenue ORR We have identied a number of Group and divisional level Operating return on revenue is dened as operating profit financial and non-financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional that reect the internal benchmarks we use to measure items expressed as a percentage of revenue.
the success of our businesses and will enable investors and other stakeholders to measure our progress.
Revenue growth By focusing on these areas we will ensure continuous Revenue growth is dened as the percentage increase in sustainable improvement across the company.
the Companys continuing revenue when compared to that Group KPIs are clearly set out and dened and are discussed of the previous year.
in detail in the Financial review on pages 30 to 33.
The reconciliation between divisional statutory operating profit and operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items is reected in note 3 to the financial statements.
Reconciliation to statutory operating profit Operating return Revenue Operating profit on revenue Growth Operating Revenue profit 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2009 m m m m Total statutory 1,901.9 1,555.9 133.1 110.2 7.0% 7.1% 22% 21% Amortisation of acquired intangibles 14.2 10.9 Total underlying 1,901.9 1,555.9 147.3 121.1 7.7% 7.8% 22% 22% Babcock International Group PLC 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operational review continued Marine Market overview The UK Naval support sector is the divisions most important market.
As the Ministry of Defence MoD, our key customer, continues to seek efficiencies and cost benets, our focus has been on building long-term partnerships and arrangements with them to ensure the programmes on which we are working deliver maximum benets.
Safety hat-trick for Rosyth Throughout the year we have consistently supported Reecting our continuing focus on creating a safe working environment, Babcock Marine at Rosyth the MoD in developing their Maritime Change Programme, has won the British Safety Council Sword of Honour as well as with other cost saving initiatives in the submarine for the third year in a row.
This is their fifth sword and surface ship support areas.
in six years and demonstrates the success of the health and safety management systems that have Internationally, as other governments seek similar cost been established.
efficiencies for their submarine support activities, we are looking The Council only presents 40 swords each year and this, as well as achieving 5 star status earlier at a number of opportunities where our expertise can be used.
in the year is testament to the hard work and commitment shown by all employees.
Operational review The Marine division is our largest business representing 47% of Group revenue.
The division has had another excellent year, exceeding all financial and operational targets.
This is partly due to the benefit of a full years contribution from Devonport but is mainly the result of strong organic growth and the considerable scale the division has within the naval support market.
We have made significant synergy cost savings across the division, which has contributed to the growth in profit.
Training for the future By the end of the 2009 10 financial year we expect efficiency At HMNB Clyde a modern apprentice programme ensures the future availability of skilled engineers.
and synergy savings to be running at the rate of 14 million This year there were over 300 applications per year.
At the same time we have maintained our high for 15 vacancies.
After a week-long induction level of service, confirmed in performance feedback, and have programme at the base, the successful candidates will be spending their first year on block release developed the long-term partnering arrangements with at Clydebank College.
There they will learn electrical our customer.
and mechanical engineering skills to complete the first year of a National Certicate in Engineering.
Negotiations on the Terms of Business Agreement ToBA have continued throughout the year without any delay to the award of new contracts.
The key principles have been agreed and recent contracts have been awarded under new arrangements, similar to those to be contained in the ToBA.
The MoD continues to negotiate other Maritime Change Initiatives with other parties and we do not expect our ToBA to be concluded ahead of these.
Submarines Apprentice ship builders at Appledore Babcock Marine is the leading submarine support partner To make sure ship building skills dont disappear to the Royal Navy.
Routine maintenance and support of the from Appledore, a new group of apprentices have submarine eet has continued at our Devonport facilities and at been taken on.
After three months training at North Devon College, 14 apprentices are starting HM Naval Base Clyde Faslane.
We have also benefited from the to put their skills to the test working on the bow continuous programme of scheduled refuelling and ret work.
sections of the two new Queen Elizabeth class Aircraft Carriers.
The first ship building apprentices The long overhaul period and refuelling LOP R of HMS in Appledore for a number of years, the apprentices will be given an experienced mentor with many Victorious was successfully completed as planned in October years experience: ensuring that skills and 2008 and HMS Vigilant started her LOP R in November.
knowledge can once again pass from generation This programme is expected to conclude in 2012 and the to generation.
contract, valued in excess of 300 million, was the first to be signed under new contracting arrangements with the MoD.
Business review 01 33 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9 Trusted to ensure strategic assets perform throughout their life cycle... Marine 2008 Revenue growth % 191 2009 41 2007 2006 6 -12 2008 Operating return 2007 2009 10.8 10.3 on revenue % 10.0 2005 8.0 2006 6.9 Babcock International Group PLC 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operational review continued The last refuelling of the Trafalgar class submarines will be complete in 2010 when HMS Triumph returns to service.
A business improvement project is well underway to reshape our submarine support activity providing a sharper focus on defuelling and decommissioning.
At Devonport, the major nuclear licensed site modernisation programme to handle the defuelling of redundant submarines, has continued to progress very well.
Surface ships In our core warship support activities we have supported the Royal Navy with its continuous programme of ret and upgrade projects at both Devonport and Rosyth.
HMS Ocean, the largest warship in the Royal Navy has undergone a major ret and a number of other major upgrade packages have been completed on frigates and mine warfare vessels.
During the year we received a commendation from the MoD for the repairs to HMS Grimsby, which included the largest ever structural repair to a vessel of its type.... by working in long-term partnerships with our customers.
Business review 01 33 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 During the coming year, we expect to enter into a MoD industry alliance for through-life support of all complex Royal Navy warships aimed at reducing costs and delivering greater efficiency and availability.
This will increase our role in the technical and planning aspects of warship support and provide a significant opportunity for future development.
Babcock is a key member of the Aircraft Carrier Alliance that will design, build, assemble and support the two new Queen Elizabeth class aircraft carriers, the largest vessels ever operated by the Royal Navy.
In March 2009, revisions to the build strategy Working in partnership at Faslane Our contract to manage the Clyde Royal Naval Base for the two vessels were announced and this will result in Faslane is one of the longest and most successful additional activity for the division.
Whilst the impact of this is within Babcock.
We first took over management still to be nalised, we anticipate it will be worth an additional of the base in 2002 and are currently half way through a six year extension period.
The success 25% to the original 675 million contract awarded in July 2008. of the contract has been a result of the partnership The original contract included the build of the bow section, agreements between Babcock and the naval base command.
The two organisations now work as a significant element of the detailed design activity and final one integrated team and in 2009 they introduced assembly of the vessels at our dockyard at Rosyth.
In addition their first joint business plan which marks an Babcock will now be responsible for construction of the important milestone in the ongoing success of the partnering arrangement.
sponsons and other elements of the vessels.
Construction Since 2002, targets for reducing costs have of the bow section has already started at our Appledore facilities been beaten.
Chris Hockley, the Clyde Naval Base and the upgrade and modication to the facilities at Rosyth Commodore said It made sense to bring our two is progressing well.
To support our commitment to CVF, organisations together as one integrated team.
Together we can be more effective and more we have embarked on a substantial apprentice and graduate efficient.
The Scottish Government is interested recruitment programme which will last over the next four years.
in this business model which could be used to remove cost whilst improving output performance In addition we have successfully completed the refurbishment in government agencies where funding is strained.
These working practices are a benchmark for of the third and final vessel for the Estonian Navy.
This contract partnership within Babcock.
Faslane is Scotlands to regenerate ex-Royal Navy vessels for sale has been biggest single site employer with a payroll of recognised as the most successful project of its type ever over 6,000 employees and through Babcock, the site is also a major provider of apprenticeships undertaken by the MoD.
Integrated Technology During the year we formed a new business unit within the division to bring together the engineering, design, systems integration and platform management capabilities across the Group.
Integrated Technology is one of the leading organisations of its type in the UK defence sector with over 1,300 staff and a strong range of products and enabling technologies.
Our focus on technology will be a key driver in delivering true through-life capability management for our customers in the UK and will enable us to develop our international naval support activities.
In April 2009 we were awarded the 155 million, ten year Submarine Engineering Support Contract SESC to provide in-service support to the submarine eet.
We will take the industry lead in the Submarine Support Management Group SSMG providing a wide range of design and technical support services, working in partnership with the MoD to transform the provision of through-life submarine support.
Through Integrated Technology we have been able to increase our involvement in the CVF project, which is increasingly reliant on the scale of our design capability.
In addition we have growing roles in some of the UKs other major defence projects including both the Astute and future deterrent submarine programmes.
Babcock International Group PLC 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operational review continued A strong team has been established in Canada to deliver the 125 million, five year support contract for Canadas Victoria class submarines.
This provides us with a solid base from which to grow our own local engineering support operation.
We continue to expand our international submarine support activities and good progress has been made in the design and manufacture of the weapons handling and launch system for Spains new S-80 submarine class.
Contracts for the provision of initial designs for weapons handling systems for new submarine programmes in South Korea and Australia have also been secured.
Naval bases At the Devonport and Clyde Naval Bases we continue to E-learning at Valley Recognising the need for structured training and work closely with the Royal Navy and MoD to improve the development of all employees, Babcock has efficiency of their operations.
In April 2009 we were awarded launched a modern learning suite for employees a 560 million Warship Support Modernisation Initiative at RAF Valley in a joint initiative with the union Unite.
The suite gives access to over 800 on-line WSMI contract for Devonport, extending the provision courses including: computer skills, languages of naval base support and management through to 2013. and health and safety.
The courses allow people to train and develop at their own speed, and from their own structured learning.
Improving the skills, knowledge and understanding of our employees Equipment support is already starting to benefit on-site customers: Our Equipment Support business unit has had a very the RAF: BAE Systems and Rolls-Royce.
successful year and continues to deliver improved equipment upgrade and availability services to our land, sea and air customers in the MoD as well as to the wider defence industry.
We are now rmly established as the largest provider of piece-part spares to the MoD with an inventory of 70,000 unique spares.
In addition, we are continuously growing our portfolio of maritime equipment support contracts, recently adding a ten year contract for the availability management of electric motors and generators for the Royal Navy.
To date, our Land Systems team has delivered in excess of 2008 Debut Sustainability Conference 200 Jackal off-road armoured patrol vehicles and 32 specialist Sustainable procurement is a major concern for our key customer, the Ministry of Defence.
utility MEP vehicles in support of Urgent Operational Working together, Defence Estates and Debut Requirements UOR for the Army.
In addition we supported part of Babcock Infrastructure Services held operations through specialist driver training services and a two day conference focusing on and highlighting the key issues of sustainability.
On Day 1, various integrated logistic support for spares and repairs to the representatives from the MoDs various estates vehicles.
We have started work on the next UOR to deliver departments and Debut project and site delivery managers met to discuss best practice in delivering around 200 more Jackal type vehicles and expect this sustainable solutions.
contract to be worth in the order of 55 million.
On Day 2, Debut and its supply chain partners discussed the practical solutions for those tasked with developing and delivering projects.
Outlook The programme focused on communicating and training programmes to raise awareness of We are confident the division will continue to benefit from sustainability and energy saving issues.
In addition the strength of the relationship with our major customer and to key note speeches and presentations, a total our ability to reduce its operational costs whilst improving of 35 workshops were also held and a number of exhibitions provided examples of new technologies, the availability of its assets will be of continuing benefit to the materials and methods available for use within the division.
We have excellent long-term visibility through both MoDs Defence estates and Debut.
existing orders and the scheduled programme of rets and maintenance.
In addition there are a number of opportunities in the UK and overseas where we believe we can build on the strength of our reputation and expertise to deliver further growth.
Business review 01 33 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 The multi-activity and integrated support contracts for the Defence Hawk T Mk 1 eet, Ardour engines and Hercules aircraft have all continued to perform well and have provided high levels Market overview of service, availability and operational capability.
Across the division, the Ministry of Defence continues to be our major customer, and their focus throughout the year has Airports been on delivering cost efficiencies.
The continuing pressure on MoD expenditure has resulted in greater collaborative Airport operations have had a very strong year continuing working with industry at all levels and across all our contracts to add to the level of support they provide for BAAs integrated we are seeking to add value and increase effectiveness.
baggage handling operations at Heathrow.
These now include Terminal 5, where a first class service is being provided.
Additional projects at Gatwick and Stansted have also Operational review been completed.
Revenue growth has been driven mainly by scope expansions within the Regional Prime contracts but has also benefited Outlook in the final quarter of the financial year from the start of the 30 year Royal School of Military Engineering RSME contract.
We believe the markets in which the division operates remain As a result, the divisions overall operating margin decreased robust.
We are confident that the Government and other major slightly as meaningful profit will only be recognised on this customers will continue to seek the most cost effective solutions contract during 2009 10. for their operational needs and that our successful partnering model places us in a strong position from which to benefit.
Training The 1.5 billion, RSME contract has started extremely well and has exceeded our customers expectations from the outset.
The Private Public Partnership contract, the first of its type, is to provide training, training support and facilities management.
It establishes Babcock as a major provider in the technical training market sector and the leading provider of Army training support services.
This places us in a strong position from which to benefit from a number of defence training opportunities coming up over the next few years.
Infrastructure and technical support The two Regional Prime contracts continue to perform well with a number of additional projects, services and locations being added.
These contracts demonstrate that the MoD can improve cost effectiveness and service delivery through integrated facilities management contracts operated by private companies.
The second phase of the SLAM contract to provide a further 5,000 military accommodation units also started successfully during the year.
Defence 2007 Revenue growth % 35 2008 2006 22 19 2009 12 2008 Operating return 2009 2007 9.1 8.5 on revenue % 2006 8.2 7.6 2005 6.6 Babcock International Group PLC 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operational review continued Our track, signalling and telecoms framework contracts Rail continue to provide a steady ow of profitable work.
In particular, track successfully delivered several works over Market overview the Christmas and New Year period including the second Over the next five years, in Control Period 4 from 1 April 2009 successful installation of a modular switches and crossings to 31 March 2014 Network Rail has 34 billion to spend on crossover in North West England and renewal of Dubbs Junction the UKs railways.
Of this 18 billion will be spent on track in Ayrshire, Scotland.
renewal and project work which represents a positive outlook Network Rail is seeking to reduce volumes placed through for the division.
existing track renewal frameworks and increase work placed Network Rail currently faces a number of challenges, set by through track enhancement frameworks.
We are one of seven the Ofce of the Rail Regulator, to seek alternative delivery qualied contractors for these enhancement works, valued mechanisms for Control Period 4.
These include a proposed in excess of 100 million over five years.
reduction in volume on current track renewals framework Building on our successful five year partnership with Swietelsky contracts but with a potential for tendering additional works for high output track renewals, the Swietelsky Babcock Rail through a track enhancement frameworks.
Discussions on SB Rail joint venture has submitted a tender for the high output the detail and implications of these proposals are ongoing track renewals framework contract currently valued in excess with Network Rail.
of 500 million over five years.
We expect the outcome of this tender process to be known in June July with work expected Operational review to start in September 2009.
SB Rail has also just been awarded Throughout the year the division has focused on recovery an 11 million, one year extension to the nationwide on-track and delivering long-term financial improvements.
to manage out a number of underperforming multi-disciplinary Additional works are now coming through the Signalling projects that have had an adverse impact on our performance.
Type C contracts, particularly in Scotland, and should result We have built on our already strong reputation for delivering in increased revenue.
The telecommunication business unit quality engineering, championing innovation by bringing has recently been awarded contracts including Driver Only new technologies to the rail industry and partnering leading Operated Closed Circuit Television renewal works and Radio companies.
Our effort is now on using our core skills Electronic Token Block base station works across Scotland.
and expertise to secure and deliver track renewal, power We have successfully commissioned the 49 million Trent and signalling led contracts efficiently to ensure the division Valley Four Track project in which the new high speed railway delivers acceptable levels of return.
is enabling enhanced journey times and increased capacity.
Outlook Despite a 30% reduction in Network Rails track renewal budget we believe there are a number of opportunities for the division to benefit from growth in track enhancement projects and high output track renewal as well as other framework opportunities.
We will continue to take the necessary action to create a more efficient business and complete the withdrawal from unprofitable multi-disciplinary project work to build on our reputation for delivering quality engineering.
Rail 2007 Revenue growth % 5 2006 3 2008 2009 0 0 2005 Operating return 5.0 2007 2006 on revenue % 4.1 4.0 2008 0.2 2009 -2.8 Business review 01 33 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 Investing in skills for the Rail industry Babcock Rail is investing in the skills it will require for the future with new custom built training facilities to open shortly in Glasgow.
In addition, this year 17 apprentices across the division have embarked on four years practical training, study at college and hands-on site experience to achieve NVQ levels 2 and 3 in railway engineering disciplines.
The introduction of The Apprentice of the Year Award will recognise and reward those who have achieved exceptional results during their year of training.
Engineering Training Conference In November 2008 Babcock Rail held its second annual conference for all its engineering graduates and trainees from all disciplines, Trusted to operate including their mentors.
The Rail training schemes all have accreditation from the Institution of Engineering and Technology and the Institution in highly regulated of Mechanical Engineers.
Part of the conference was to make sure trainees environments... were clear on how they achieved professional membership and engineering council registration and helped to encourage more employees to take part.
Babcock International Group PLC 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operational review continued... because of our commitment to health and safety.
Business review 01 33 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 Nuclear Nuclear Market overview 2009 Revenue growth % 40 The civil nuclear market has received greater attention during the year, with a National Policy Statement expected towards the end of 2009, early 2010 which supports a programme of new build nuclear generating stations.
These will replace operational reactors scheduled to close over the next 1015 years.
The acquisition of British Energy by EDF and their drive 2009 Operating return to have a new plant operational by 2017 has also added 12.2 on revenue % impetus across the civil nuclear market.
2008 7.5 Operational review The successful consolidation of Alstec, INS and Strachan & Henshaw to create BNS Nuclear Services has created a business with considerable scale and expertise.
The financial benets accruing from the integration and successful contract performance are clearly reected in the significant improvement in the divisions operating margin.
BNS Nuclear Services is now one of the major suppliers of nuclear engineering and support services in the UK civil nuclear market.
It has also continued successfully to develop the capability to utilise the nuclear skills existing in Babcock Marine and deploy them in the civil nuclear marketplace, thus providing signicantly enhanced capability.
There continues to be a steady programme of investment in the existing operational reactors as plant improvements and work to address key technical issues and support life extensions is undertaken.
Supporting the operational AGR eet continues to be a major focus for the division with the development of Reactor Core Monitoring Equipment for British Energy a major success in reducing AGR outage periods.
We expect to conclude discussions with Areva NP for the continuation of the outage and maintenance activities Meeting the President for British Energys Sizewell B reactor.
This follows a successful Recognising the shortage of professional engineers in the UK, Babcock is working with professional earlier contract which concluded with the shortest outage bodies to promote engineering as a profession for period at the station.
In support of this aim, Professor Bill Banks, President of the Royal Institution of The division has continued to support the nuclear scientific Mechanical Engineers, visited BNS Nuclear Services sites at both Culham and the Rutherford Appleton Laboratories Whetstone site to meet their current graduate trainees and others in the early stages of their RAL.
This year saw the successful completion and start career in engineering.
of operation of the second Target Station for the ISIS project Professor Banks was keen to gather views on at RAL where we were the managing contractor and have been their training and also their expectations of what successful in winning a follow on support framework.
the Institution had to offer.
The visit was organised by two young engineers from BNS Nuclear services who serve on the IMechE young members panel and board.
During the visit Professor Banks and other senior members of the Institution discussed how Babcock could provide continuous professional development, particularly for those working towards professional status.
Babcock International Group PLC 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operational review continued The decommissioning marketplace remains subdued.
Although the Parent Body Organisation PBO contract has been let for Sellaeld, funding remains constrained.
BNS Nuclear Services has successfully completed the installation of the complex equipment for the Sellaeld Product and Residue Store project.
Earlier this year, as part of the Accord Alliance, we were awarded the next phase of the Box Encapsulation Plant Product Store contract, along with other engineering packages, to support the high hazard work areas on the site.
These contracts are strongly supported by our An end-to-end service local design and workshop facilities.
To achieve our objective of developing long-term relationships with our customers, our divisions At the Dounreay site we successfully won a three year need to properly understand their detailed support contract to provide maintenance services for both requirements and long-term goals.
Babcock Networks is working hard to ensure EDF Energy the PFR and DFR reactors thus consolidating our position as Networks meet its goal of improved performance a long-term support services provider for the site.
However, of its electricity distribution networks to meet decommissioning at Dounreay and Magnox has been delayed the future demand for power.
During 2009 Babcock will be working on 30 projects throughout until the requirement for funding at Sellaeld is established.
East Anglia and the South-East ranging from ttings and foundation replacements to full tower and line This year the first fuel elements were removed from Chapelcross.
There are a number of engineering This was achieved using equipment designed, supplied, challenges to be met along the way with crossings over the M1 and a mainline railway.
installed and commissioned by BNS Nuclear Services as part The 2008 09 programme of works for EDF was all of the Chaplecross Calder Hall decommissioning programme.
successfully and safely delivered without a single lost time accident.
This was the single largest project Our involvement on the AWE sites has continued to grow with undertaken for EDF to date and demonstrates our a number of contract successes in the decommissioning, facility ability to provide a full end-to-end service.
refurbishment and new facility design areas.
The development Safety culture of our local engineering ofce at Aldermaston has contributed To achieve a complete health and safety culture, strongly to this success along with our ability to utilise we are keen to understand why individuals behave reachback into the nuclear capability in Babcock Marine.
the way they do, the decisions they make and what their underlying beliefs about health and safety are.
Babcock Networks is linking up with the Outlook University of Nottingham on an Industrial Psychology programme to consider the nature, causes There is growing public acceptance of the need for a new and consequences of accidents in the workforce.
build nuclear power generation programme as well as strong We hope the outcomes of this research can be used across the Group.
support from Government and an appetite within the industry to make it happen.
We are well placed to benefit as this market develops and we are exploring partnering possibilities with a number of parties involved in this programme.
BNS Nuclear Services has one of the largest specialist nuclear resources in the UK.
It has a strong position, through its scale and expertise, to serve each market area and deliver further significant growth.
Networks 2008 Revenue growth % 32 2006 28 2009 21 2007 3 2007 Operating return 2006 9.1 8.6 on revenue % 2008 2005 7.3 2009 6.4 5.9 Business review 01 33 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 Operational review Networks The division has achieved steady growth in revenue following major contract wins in the transmission business and continued Market overview growth in the National Grid Electricity Alliance contract a joint Market conditions across the division have seen some volatility venture with AMEC.
Long term alliance partnering has helped during the year.
The mobile network operators have continued insulate the division from some volatility and provide greater to outsource to Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs, visibility and increased work streams, although this is although there has been some increased spending on new at a slightly reduced operating margin.
Margins were also infrastructure and upgrading existing networks.
In the UK impacted by start up losses in the Irish telecoms business.
broadcast market, the main focus is on the Digital Switchover DSO project which will continue until 2012.
Both the National Grid and EDF Energy Networks Alliances have had successful second years, delivering strong volumes The Digital Britain interim report that was recently presented with notable improvements in efficiency, innovation and safety to Parliament is the Governments plan to secure Britains place performance.
In 2009 we expect volumes to remain static at the forefront of the digital economy.
As the Government ahead of anticipated increases in 2010, when the next pushes these plans forward we expect to see our markets regulatory period and Distribution Price Control Review 5 start.
Specialist transmission design activities again increased throughout the year.
Whilst nding suitably qualied staff in this area remains difficult, sustained recruitment for both our London and Soa, Bulgaria, design ofces helped the design function respond to the increasing business needs.
Trusted to identify and deliver complex technical solutions... Babcock International Group PLC 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operational review continued... through the range and scale of our specialist engineering expertise.
The division successfully completed its first xed line communication network contract and there have been consistent and increasing work loads throughout the year.
We are now established in this market with a strong pipeline of further opportunities.
We have established a dedicated team looking at maximising opportunities from the projected investment in Next Generation networks.
Digital Switchover work has provided a steady revenue stream.
Following the acquisition of National Grid Wireless by Arqiva, we now work with a single customer who is responsible for the entire new network being built for the UK Digital Switchover programme.
Recognising young expertise In a drive to tackle the world-wide shortage of trained mechanics, Volvo has introduced a scholarship programme for top apprentices Outlook from around the world.
Four apprentices from the equipment business in South Africa were chosen The markets in which we operate remain attractive with to travel to Sweden to deepen their knowledge significant opportunities resulting from infrastructure upgrade of Volvo construction equipment.
Babcock is work as well as new technologies.
We believe the strong recognised by Volvo Construction Equipment as a leader in the eld of apprentice training and many positions we hold in these markets and the long-term other distributors have sought advice from Babcock relationships we have developed with our key customers will on how to run successful training programmes.
underpin our performance in the future.
Business review 01 33 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 The Powerlines business has had another good year with Engineering and Plant successful projects undertaken in South Africa, Namibia and Botswana.
Focus on production efficiency has helped Market overview to drive margin improvement.
Health and safety improvements In South Africa, whilst the rapid drop in global commodity continue to be a highlight for this area of the business.
prices has impacted the economy, the slow down in The South African Equipment business has had a challenging infrastructure spending, has not been as steep as in some year.
In the first half we delivered strong results, continuing more developed countries.
The South African government our track-record of growth.
However order intake fell by some remains committed to improving and extending the supply 40% in the last quarter compared with the prior year.
of electricity and other civil infrastructures and has allocated We started to take action to mitigate the impact of declining additional funds to spend within the power markets that orders during October putting plans in place to reduce we serve.
Our focus on parts and servicing has been beneficial with revenue in this area increasing by 51% Operational review with consequent margin enhancement.
Despite the sudden decline in the African equipment Building on our track record of growing market share for business during the second half, divisional revenues held up Volvo construction equipment, we have taken on a regional well, ending the year broadly in line with the previous year dealership for Nissan trucks and are progressing negotiations in Sterling terms.
Margins for the division benefited from a very for the MACK truck franchise for Southern Africa.
Whilst we strong performance in the Eagleton pipelines business in the do not expect significant sales in the short-term, the market US and improving profitability on Eskom related business in for smaller commercial vehicles has been relatively resilient South Africa.
and the larger MACK rigid trucks and concrete mixers will Eskom, the South African power utility, has announced complement the current range of construction equipment.
expansion programmes that include new coal red power Adding further strength to the business, the Plant Hire business stations as well as upgrades and extensions to the transmission saw good growth in revenues.
During the year we made line networks.
Our power generation support and maintenance significant investment in new cranes to cope with increased business has shown strong growth during the year with demand that shows no signs of slowing down.
continuing benefit from the return to service programme and increased outage and maintenance work on the existing in-service stations.
Outlook With continuing increase in demand for electricity across Southern Africa we anticipate a secure future for our power generation support and Powerlines businesses.
In the equipment market we have taken a more cautious approach and in the medium-term we expect the demand in the power markets to off-set only some of the decline in the equipment market.
As a result, we expect results for the division for 2009 10, excluding the effects of currency movements, to return to levels similar to those reported in 2007 08.
