Bellway p. l. c. 06 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chief Executives Operating Review Choice We create homes that people want, designed to meet local requirements.
Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Bellway p. l. c. 07 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The beginning of 2009 brought a welcome change for most of our divisions.
Visitor levels increased and, more importantly, the weekly reservation rate effectively doubled.
This improved market continued through to 31 July as tentative signs of stabilisation emerged.
Introduction To achieve this, our sales teams used a variety Divisional Performance Bellway commenced the financial year with a of incentives on virtually every home to The six northern divisions sold 1,833 homes, reduced structure of 13 trading divisions.
For example, first time buyers a decrease of 45% from the previous years At the start of the year, mortgage approvals require increased deposits as a result of 3,348 homes, with the average selling price had dropped to around 33,000 per month, lenders tightening mortgage criteria and as a falling by 14.7% to 134,200 2008 the lowest number since records began in consequence the Groups shared equity 157,300.
As the economy in this region 1993.
This receding tide of finance, coupled scheme Opening Doors became attractive receded more quickly especially in Scotland, with low consumer confidence, dictated to this type of buyer.
Whilst typically we Yorkshire and the North West, consumer strategy and meant that the Group was receive only 75% of the selling price on legal demand eroded rapidly in these locations.
about to enter what can be described as a completion, the balance is owed to the In the East and West Midlands divisions period of partial hibernation.
Company and is repaid when the client we have been able to access the funding ultimately sells or re-mortgages.
The 25% provided by the various government The Housing Market stake is viewed as a deposit by lenders.
This initiatives and as a consequence some The weekly sales rates and the market in scheme was used in almost 14% of sales and 30% of completions in these two divisions general had started to deteriorate in spring a similar scheme HomeBuy Direct has now were sold to housing associations.
2008 and continued through to December been initiated by the government through 2008.
During this time visitor levels across all The seven southern divisions sold 2,547 the Homes & Communities Agency.
outlets were extremely low with some sites homes 2008 3,208, a stronger seeing as few as five visitors per week and Whilst private investors found access to the performance than the North and only this, combined with cancellation rates running mortgage market increasingly difficult the 21% below the previous years volumes.
at an all time high of 26%, resulted in the level Group found an appetite, especially from The average selling price in the region fell by of reservations being around 50% below the southern housing associations to acquire only 7.9% to 168,300 2008 182,700. prior year at an average of just 56 sales per properties over and above the section 106 The Essex and South East divisions actually week at that time.
However, the beginning of planning requirement.
The Thames Gateway increased output compared to 2008, the only 2009 brought a welcome change for most of division has been particularly active in this divisions to do so.
Visitor levels increased and, area and on several occasions during the year in and around London, whether they be more importantly, the weekly reservation sold 100% of a development to a housing apartments or more traditional housing, have rate effectively doubled.
proved more resilient compared to other market continued through to 31 July as parts of the country.
This factor is strongly When combined with normal section 106 tentative signs of stabilisation emerged.
influencing the Groups land buying policy at planning obligations, sales to housing the present time.
Against this background the Group legally associations represented some 34% of total completed the sale of 4,380 homes output or 1,484 homes.
Part exchange Business Focus compared with 6,556 in 2008.
The average conversely was used to a lesser extent by the With uncertainty in both the housing market selling price reduced to 154,005 from sales teams in only 7% of transactions as and the wider economy generally, the Board 169,729 in 2008. buyers found the lenders lower valuations decided to attempt to place the Group more difficult to overcome.
Consequently in a sound financial position to protect our part exchange stock of 40.6 million at shareholder value in the downturn and 1 August 2008 had reduced to 8.0 million create an opportunity for growth in the long by the year end.
A target was set at the beginning of the financial year to further reduce borrowings by 100 million to pursue the following objectives:- For more information visit our website 8 www.
co. uk Customer Samantha Allen at Prospect Place, f Grangetown, Cardiff, loved the fact she could choose from a large range of options to personalise her new home.
Bellway p. l. c. 08 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chief Executives Operating Review continued Phoenix Park, Letchworth, Hertfordshire.
f An interior view at our development at s Millbank, Greenfield, Greater Manchester.
Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Bellway p. l. c. 09 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Group has around 33,260 plots at its disposal within its short and medium-term land holdings.
This is equivalent to over seven years supply at current output and excludes long-term or strategic land which amounts to around 3,900 plots, typically made up of greenfield land held under option and brownfield regeneration opportunities.
Restricting Work in Progress and Site Levels 3 and 4 of the governments Code for Openings Sustainable Homes.
However, notwithstanding The carry forward position at the beginning these pressures it is hoped that lower costs of the year stood at 370 million and the will persist for some time thereby offsetting in majority of these homes had to be legally part any further sales incentives that may completed in the financial year.
However, need to be offered to conclude reservations.
work in progress on existing outlets, Land wherever possible, was restricted and on The control of land expenditure was also a new sites only those with forward sales and key component in reducing debt levels and low infrastructure costs were opened.
During therefore another cautious approach the course of the year new construction was throughout the year was maintained.
Land restricted to 2,900 homes 2008 6,600 owners and their advisers are adjusting to and by the end of July 2009, 27 sites lower land values and the operating divisions remained mothballed.
With regard to the were instructed wherever possible to latter, layouts are being re-drawn to withdraw from conditional contracts and accelerate the development of the housing options that were considered to be no longer association element and, where possible, we viable.
Consequently, our land expenditure fell are also looking to introduce a larger to only 93.3 million compared with 275 percentage of two storey housing.
million in the previous year.
As a result of the foregoing, the number of During the period only 1,580 plots were sales outlets fell during the year from last acquired, and as a result, land held with years average of 210 down to 170 and the planning permission has reduced to some number of stock units reduced from 1,380 at 19,260 plots.
Land owned, contracted or held the beginning of the year to 650 at the year under option currently awaiting planning end.
We feel that a certain level of stock in permission has stabilised and stands at 14,000 this market has advantages and therefore plots.
Combined, therefore, the Group has further reductions are not envisaged.
around 33,260 plots at its disposal within its Cost Base short and medium-term land holdings.
This is The lower activity levels were an opportunity equivalent to over seven years supply at not only to re-design layouts, if possible, but current output and excludes long-term or more importantly to reduce the cost base.
strategic land which amounts to around With the workload drying up many 3,900 plots, typically made up of greenfield sub-contract orders were re-tendered and land held under option and brownfield with material and labour prices softening it is regeneration opportunities.
estimated that around 5,000 to 6,000 was saved on a typical family home of say 1,000 square feet over the course of the year.
Of course there are cost pressures in the shape of higher planning fees, Home Information Packs and the delivery of the new Code Bellway p. l. c. 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chief Executives Operating Review continued Service We are committed to providing a high level of personal service from reservation to completion and after sales service.
Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Bellway p. l. c. 11 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Century Fields, West Malling, Kent.
f Customers Jonathan and Clare Turner ff in front of their new Bellway home at Ham Stone Court, Stalbridge, Dorset.
The holding cost of land and work in In a Code Level 3 home, for example, we Looking Forward progress was reviewed throughout the year.
calculate that water-saving devices such as The cash generated as a result of the partial During the first half, house prices continued flow restrictors, mixer taps and dual flushing hibernation policy greatly exceeded our to fall and an exercise was carried out in WCs will result in water consumption savings expectations and the Group ended the year January 2009 which resulted in a land and of around 103 litres per person per day.
with only 36.8 million of net bank debt, a work in progress write-down of 58.9 million.
reduction of 180.9 million during the year.
Whilst the Group has concluded significantly Together with a further write-down in Mortgage valuations are beginning to stabilise fewer planning agreements during the course relation to part exchange stock and land and indeed the Council of Mortgage Lenders of the year, we calculate, nevertheless, that without planning consent of 7.4 million this has recently announced a further monthly they will contribute over 2 million in total produced a total exceptional charge of rise in gross lending in July, albeit some 42% towards community benefits in areas such as 66.3 million.
In the second half, whilst fragile, below the previous year.
This stability, whilst new education facilities and healthcare.
some stability returned to the market and still fragile, is extremely welcome and, further exceptional write-downs were consequently, the Group is now looking to Putting the Customer First considered unnecessary.
The Group has continued to improve the selectively increase both work in progress expenditure and the number of outlets.
quality and standard of finish of its new Environmental Issues homes.
In an independent survey of 300 The efficient management of construction In addition, the Group intends to selectively respondents returned at the end of March waste benefits the environment whilst at the increase its land bank predominantly focusing 2009, 89% 2008 80% would recommend same time improves cost control.
Site waste on the southern divisions provided current a friend to purchase a Bellway home.
management plans on all sites have market and general economic conditions However, conversely 50% of respondents contributed to almost 14,000 tonnes of prevail and, since the year end, Bellway has found between one to five problems with demolition material being re-used and all contracted new land at attractive margins.
their new home after moving in.
This is an plasterboard off-cuts being recycled.
On 6 August we announced a placing of 5.7 area where we will be specifically Furthermore, around 1,025 homes were million new ordinary shares with new and concentrating in the coming months.
completed during the year using timber existing shareholders, realising 43.7 million frame construction techniques.
Using timber The quality of construction and presentation net of expenses.
This enhances the Groups from accredited managed sources not only balance sheet and puts Bellway in an even of a new home is a reflection of the way a reduces waste going to landfill but, because site is organised and run.
During the year 56 stronger position to expand as and when the there are approximately 50 to 60 cubic feet market shows tangible signs of recovery.
sites were registered under the Considerate of additional timber in a typical 1,000 square Constructors Scheme whereby additional site foot home, reduces the amount of masonry inspections are undertaken by third parties.
This produces savings of around four addition, despite having fewer outlets, we have tonnes of CO2 for every home constructed retained an in-house team of four health and Source UK Timber Frame Association.
safety professionals who, on a systematic basis, carry out regular detailed audits on all the The governments Code for Sustainable Groups developments.
It is anticipated that Homes will require all new private homes to John K Watson this, together with constant training of site achieve the new Code Level 3 Energy management, will lead to a long-term Efficiency Standards from October 2010.
Chief Executive improvement in construction standards and In moving towards these new requirements 12 October 2009 therefore greater levels of customer the Group has delivered 428 homes to satisfaction.
these new standards in the financial year 2008 48.
We undertake to provide our customers f with the best possible service.
In our latest survey, 89% of our customers would recommend a friend to purchase a Bellway home.
