14 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 Operations review BlackLining Demo delivering organic 1 NoRdic revenue growth Summary of key achievements k S uccessful launch of new Hygiene washroom products line k G ood level of new sales development in community services k clearer pricing structures based on customer profitability Priorities for the next year k F ocus on sales of Hygiene washroom products k S ales investment in our key strategic market segments BlackLining Demo our Nordic region covers the country operations in denmark, Sweden including Christian Ellegaard Operating brand in the Nordic region our direct sales business Bjrnklder, Regional Managing director Norway, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia.
We are the market leader across Key financial performance indicators 2009 2008 the whole region, with 46 plants and nearly 3,200 staff.
Revenue h 330.8m 326.5m Adjusted operating profit 51.2m 51.2m Revenue in our Nordic region increased 1% to 330.8 million 326.5 million with Adjusted operating margin x 15.5% 15.7% adjusted operating profit maintained at Before exceptional items and amortisation of customer contracts 51.2 million 51.2 million.
At constant More detail about non-financial KPIs in the corporate responsibility section of this report: currency, revenue was 5% lower and Pages 2629 adjusted operating profit 5% lower.
cash generation was very strong reflecting Services provided by country good management of working capital and lower capital expenditure.
Sweden is the economy in Scandinavia that has been denmark most severely impacted by the economic BlackLining Demo downturn because of its more significant manufacturing base with GdP falling by Sweden more than 5% in the year.
The reduction in revenue in our Swedish textile Norway maintenance and direct sales operations was the primary reason for the shortfall in Finland operating profit against the comparative period.
Elsewhere we saw like for like Estonia revenue growth and achieved margins similar to last year.
Latvia in 2009, we launched a new line Lithuania of washroom products, significantly improving the design and utility of our service offering.
These have been well received in our Nordic markets and further support our drive to grow the facilities segment of our business in the Nordic 46 3,200 as well as our other regions.
Number of plants we operate Number of people we employ Workwear Facilities Healthcare Hotels and restaurants Sales and production 15 Statements Governance Financial statements investors BlackLining Demo Innovation for our customers driving organic growth By offering our customers a fully outsourced, innovative and tailored solution, we will be able to grow our facilities business for higher returns.
during 2009, we benefited from delivering on Maintaining our balanced customer portfolio in 2 3 acquisitions operational efficiency denmark and from the strong customer relationships we hold in public services Summary of key achievements Summary of key achievements and the pharmaceutical and food k Restructured the cost base of the k consolidated plants to improve efficiencies industries.
The expected impact of lower investments we have made k investments to reduce to water, BlackLining Demo volumes in the hotels division reduced energy, chemicals and oil usage profits by more than 1 million year Priorities for the next year on year but has been offset by growth k integrate the iSS acquisitions and Priorities for the next year in other parts of the business, primarily continue to strengthen our leading k Maintain operational flexibility facilities, where we saw double-digit market position in mat services k continue delivering cL2000 profit growth.
We have focused on cost k deliver on return opportunities offered production efficiencies reduction activities to improve efficiency, by the investments we have made which have included the closure of one our relatively small Baltic mat businesses plant, in addition to concluding the our business in Finland is now operating have maintained revenues and remained consolidation we undertook last year.
from a new plant in Helsinki and is focused cash generative despite their local As a result the operating margin on the higher margin workwear and economies being severely impacted by improved slightly.
facilities segments following the disposal the global economic downturn.
We are of the much lower margin flat linen As expected our revenues in Swedish pleased with the progress of the business and direct sales business.
textile maintenance reflected lower operations since joining the group, volumes in hotels and workwear segments particularly the level of new contracts where we have a more significant we have won.
exposure to a manufacturing customer base.
We took action in the first half BlackLining Demo to reduce costs by consolidating two workwear plants into one and relocating one mat plant for additional capacity in the south of the country.
our higher Recent acquisition in Norway to margin facilities business has continued to capture new market opportunities grow operating profit and encouraged by our customers will benefit from a total facility service agreement for both mats and mops.
the growth potential and current trading, we commissioned a new mat plant in Stockholm.
our healthcare business has progressed well.
While profits were down on lower volumes Bjrnklder, our direct sales business in Sweden, has increased its gross margin and generated significantly more cash than last year through improved inventory management.
our business in Norway continues to grow well and improved its operating margin by more than 1% during the year.
in december 2009 we strengthened our position in the mats market by acquiring the mat services business of iSS in Norway and a smaller business in Sweden giving us a market leading position in this high growth and return business.
