38043 pp009-030 File0306 03 201001:00Page10 10 Operating review With one of the largest networks of offices of any To achieve this goal we focus on: asset management company, and over 300 portfolio Delivering competitive and sustainable investment managers and analysts covering all the major performance through clear investment processes: investment markets, we offer our clients a comprehensive range of products and services Building close relationships with our clients: to meet their investment objectives.
Operational effectiveness: We employ over 2,600 people, across Europe, the Being an employer of choice: and Americas, Asia and the Middle East, operating from 32 offices in 25 different countries.
Investing in long-term growth opportunities.
We manage assets on behalf of institutional and retail Our strategy encompasses a highly diverse business investors, financial institutions and high net worth model across products, channels and regions, which individuals in a diverse range of products covering has proved resilient in the difficult market conditions equities, fixed income, alternatives and multi-assets.
we have seen in the last two years.
We seek to build long-term relationships with our Investment performance clients by providing investment solutions which meet All investment activities are managed with the their investment requirements.
clear aim of delivering performance which meets or exceeds client objectives within their specific risk Our strategy parameters.
Long-term thinking governs our approach to investing, developing client relationships and growing We measure investment performance relative to our business.
Our goal is to build a first-class asset benchmark and peer group over a three-year period.
management business, diversified by region, product Over the past three years 79 per cent.
of our funds and channel, and to deliver for our shareholders a have outperformed their benchmark or peer group.
growing return over the long term.
Long-term thinking governs our approach to investing, developing client relationships and growing our business.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp009-030 File0306 03 201001:00Page11 11 Building close relationships with our clients Investment performance over three years We aim to excel in client service and develop partnerships of real value to clients.
We have an effective global distribution capability that offers a Above benchmark or peer group 79% wide range of products which represent solutions 2008: 67% to most investment requirements.
We are also innovative in developing new products that will meet our clients future needs, whether retail, institutional or high net worth.
Below benchmark In recent years we have repositioned our Institutional or peer group 21% offering to include new strategies focused on the 2008: 33% needs of pension funds, endowments, insurance companies and sovereign wealth funds.
Funds under management by client Operational effectiveness 148.4 billion Our investment and client service professionals benefit Institutional 52% from high quality systems and we continually look for 2008: 54% improved operating efficiencies by leveraging our expenditure on information technology.
We meet our infrastructure support requirements through a combination of in-house and outsourced Intermediary 40% solutions.
Our broad product range requires ongoing 2008: 35% development of investment and operational systems, and over the last few years we have invested significantly in upgrading our IT infrastructure.
The modern technology at the heart of Schroders IT Private Banking 8% 2008: 11% architecture allows us to respond to client, market, business and regulatory demands rapidly and efficiently.
We continue to invest in technology to support the launch of new products and the use of new financial instruments.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp009-030 File0306 03 201001:00Page12 12 Operating review continued Being an employer of choice Equities Our people are our most important asset and we In addition to our equity portfolio managers and have talented employees throughout Schroders.
analysts in London, we have equity professionals located in continental Europe, the US, Latin America It is a priority for us to develop our people to deliver and in eight offices across Asia Pacific.
to their full potential and we want to be an employer of choice wherever we operate.
Our equity products range from single country to multi-regional funds, small and mid-cap funds, funds We employ more than 40 nationalities across our designed to deliver high excess returns over the business.
Our culture values diversity, harnessing market and defensive strategies which reduce individual strengths and differences to surface the market risk.
Fixed Income Investing in long-term growth opportunities Our global fixed income capability is based on a Maintaining a strong financial position is a key research-intensive, globally integrated, credit and part of our strategy, ensuring that we can invest macro capability that supports local portfolio through market downturns.
This allows us to take a management teams in Europe, North America and long-term view which is a fundamental differentiator Asia.
We employ fundamental and quantitative for Schroders.
approaches to manage aggregate, government, At 31 December 2009, we had total Group capital credit and high yield portfolios.
of 1,649.0 million, including 808.2 million available in cash and highly liquid debt securities.
Multi-asset 1,059.0 million, the Groups investment capital, was We have over 60 professionals dedicated to delivering in excess of regulatory and operating requirements.
multi-asset solutions for our clients with a broad range of skills and capabilities across different asset classes.
Our strategic focus is on organic growth.
We see We offer a comprehensive range of customised significant potential for our business on the back solutions, pooled products and advisory services.
We of strong investment performance, a broad product specialise in providing a consultative, solutions-based range, a proven distribution capability and a highly approach for clients, which efficiently diversifies risk.
We will continue to be selective about any acquisitions that we make Our diversified growth strategies are available to to ensure that they are complementary additions to both UK and international clients to address their our organic growth plans.
We also offer structured investments, liability driven investment Investment and multi-manager products.
We offer a broad product range covering most asset classes across equities, fixed income and alternatives.
Alternatives As a result, we are able to offer products that are Our alternatives business includes property, emerging in demand at different phases of the economic and market debt, commodities and agriculture funds, market cycle.
funds of hedge funds and private equity funds of funds.
We broadened our alternatives offering to include a new global currency fund in 2009.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp009-030 File0308 03 201017:57Page13 13 Distribution Americas to develop products for different stages of We have over 500 employees in Distribution across the market cycle.
Reflecting the increasing importance Europe, the Americas, Asia and the Middle East, of the individual in the savings market, our wide specialising in sales, client service, marketing, product product range, strong investment performance and development and product management, serving broad relationships with distributors, we have seen Institutional and Intermediary sales channels.
significant growth in Intermediary over the last decade.
Institutional Private Banking We work with a diverse range of clients, including In Private Banking we offer the full range of our corporate and local authority pension plans, investment skills and provide specialist banking government funds, sovereign wealth funds, insurance services, to high net worth individuals and family companies, charities and endowments.
Dedicated relationship management is core repositioned our Institutional offering towards new to our proposition, so that we can tailor our service to products and solutions as well as building on the individual needs of each client.
Our business is traditional strengths.
of our Institutional centred in London, Guernsey, Geneva, Zurich, Milan clients are now outside the UK.
Intermediary Operations In our Intermediary sales channel we work with Over 1,000 employees worldwide are dedicated to financial institutions and independent financial ensuring operational effectiveness and integrity in advisors who use our mutual fund ranges to meet various functions including technology, legal, finance, their clients investment requirements.
risk, compliance, internal audit, human resources and operations.
Demands from clients, intermediaries, We work closely with both global and local distribution investors and regulators are ever changing and require investment strategies across Europe, Asia and the material investments in resources, knowledge and IT.
Equity funds under management Alternative funds under management 71.1 billion 18.6 billion Emerging markets 20% Funds of hedge funds 8% Global 12% Private equity funds of funds 6% Asia Paci!c 27% Property 37% UK 18% Europe 10% Americas 6% Commodities 27% QEP 7% Emerging market debt 22% Fixed income funds under management 23.0 billion Asia Paci!c 11% Australia 5% 6 1 Europe 35% 5 4 2 3 Global 19% Americas 16% UK 14% | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009
