Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The growth in revenue in Fixed Income re ects the strength of our Operating review franchise in this area, and the high volume of activity in government and corporate bonds in both Europe and North America, especially in The tables below and on page 10 analyse revenue and operating the first half.
Activity in credit derivatives in both regions has suffered pro t for 2009 compared with 2008.
A signi cant proportion of the due to regulatory uncertainty, and in North America revenue in the Groups activity is conducted outside the UK and the reported last quarter was affected by the broker departures.
results are therefore impacted by the movement in the foreign exchange rates used to translate the results of non-UK operations.
In Equities revenue from both equity derivatives and cash equities In order to give a more meaningful analysis of performance, was lower, re ecting lower equity market values and lower activity.
revenue and operating pro t growth rates for 2009 shown below are presented both as reported, and calculated using translation Commodity markets have continued to be volatile and our Energy exchange rates for 2008 consistent with those used for 2009.
The business has bene ted from this and from the increased depth and commentary on pages 9 and 10 refers to growth rates at constant breadth of the business from the acquisitions of Primex and Aspen, exchange rates.
enhancing our presence and liquidity in a wide range of oil products.
Revenue Our Information Sales business has continued to bene t from Revenue in many product areas was lower in 2009 than in 2008, increasing customer demand for both real-time and end-of-day re ecting the lower activity in the markets, particularly during the data and from an expansion of the customer base.
In addition, second half, when revenue in 2008 was boosted by the exceptional our post-trade Risk Management Services have grown strongly levels of volatility during the height of the financial crisis.
following the extension of the product and geographic coverage of tpMATCH.
Within Treasury Products, which covers FX and cash, the reduction in revenue is most marked in FX options and in emerging market Europe FX forwards, including non-deliverable forwards, re ecting the Revenue in Europe has increased by 7%.
Broker headcount in Europe reduction in risk appetite and capital deployed in those areas.
at 788 is 4% higher than a year ago and average revenue per broker has increased by 3%.
The business has delivered strong growth in Similarly, within Interest Rate Derivatives, the reduction in market revenue in Fixed Income and Energy, bene ting from buoyant activity in the product areas of interest rate options and emerging markets and the investments made in these areas over the last two market interest rate swaps was more marked than the reduction in years.
Revenue in Treasury Products and Interest Rate Derivatives G7 currency interest rate swaps.
has been affected by lower activity in emerging market products.
The Equities business, which is the smallest product group in Europe, is mainly focused on equity derivatives which have suffered from both lower equity market values and lower volumes.
Change Constant 2009 2008 Exchange Revenue by product group m m Reported Rates Treasury Products 238.9 246.1 -3% -12% Interest Rate Derivatives 192.0 220.9 -13% -22% Fixed Income 317.1 282.1 12% 2% Equities 74.0 94.2 -21% -29% Energy 100.6 81.5 23% 13% Information Sales and Risk Management Services 25.1 18.8 34% 32% 947.7 943.6 0% -9% Change Constant 2009 2008 Exchange Revenue by region m m Reported Rates Europe 542.6 504.1 8% 7% North America 318.0 339.6 -6% -23% Asia Paci c 87.1 99.9 -13% -30% 947.7 943.6 0% -9% Tullett Prebon plc 09 Annual Report 2009 Business Review continued In Fixed Income we have maintained our leading position in Although the three largest centres in the region, Singapore, Hong government bonds and have re-established our presence and Kong and Tokyo, continue to account for over 80% of the regions gained market share in corporate bonds and credit derivatives revenue, we have well established businesses in several other Asia following the actions taken in 2008, including the highly successful Paci c financial centres, including our joint venture in Shanghai.
launch of tpCREDITDEAL, our electronic platform.
The regions The Energy business in the region has increased in scale with the Energy business has bene ted from the expansion of coverage of addition of Aspens Singapore based team, and we have established a wide range of oil products through the acquisitions in 2008 of a securities business in Tokyo to provide brokerage services, initially Primex and Aspen, and from the investments made in establishing in equity derivatives, which was granted its licence and commenced a presence in new products including emissions, bio-fuels and coal.
Year end broker headcount in Asia at 356 is 2% higher than at the end of 2008.
We are well positioned North America to bene t from the regions return to growth.
In North America, revenue fell by 23%.
Year end broker headcount at 468 is 14% lower than at the end of 2008 due to the rationalisation Operating pro t and closure of marginal desks during the year and the broker in Europe has increased by 13%, with the operating margin departures in the last quarter.
Average revenue per broker has also increasing to 22.7%.
The increased operating margin in Europe fallen compared with 2008 due to the generally lower levels of primarily re ects the increased scale of the business and the activity in most products, with the reduction in activity most marked actions taken to reduce both front of ce and support costs.
Broker in emerging markets products, volatility products and cash equities.
employment costs as a percentage of revenue have reduced compared with 2008, re ecting the bene t from the actions taken Fixed Income continues to be the largest product group in at the end of that year, and the elimination of the inef ciencies the region and revenue in this area slowed signi cantly in the experienced during 2008, resulting from the large number of brokers second half following a buoyant start to the year, with the market who joined the business building up to their full run rate of revenues.
in credit derivatives particularly hit.
In most other product areas the performance relative to 2008 was stronger in the second half Operating pro t in North America has reduced by 37% and the than in the first half.
operating margin has fallen to 14.0% mainly due to the reduction in revenue.
Support costs have been reduced, but represent Asia a higher percentage of revenue in 2009 than in 2008.
Broker Our business in Asia is predominantly focused on Treasury Products employment costs as a percentage of revenue also increased during and Interest Rate Derivatives, which account for 90% of the regions the year due to inef ciencies in certain desks as a result of revenue revenue.
We have maintained our market share in our major declines, together with increased costs of employment in the light products across the region but market activity was low throughout of competitor action.
the year and revenue fell by 30%, with average revenue per broker 25% lower and average broker headcount also down.
Revenue run The business in Asia Paci c has a higher level of operational rates began to stabilise during the second half and revenue in the gearing than the other two regions due to the relatively high level last two months of the year was higher than in 2008. of xed support costs incurred in maintaining a presence across a number of centres.
Operating pro t in Asia has been driven lower by the reduction in revenue with the operating margin falling to 3.7%.
Broker employment costs as a percentage of revenue have increased due to the combination of revenue declines and increasing competition.
Operating pro t and operating margin for 2008 are stated before exceptional items.
10 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009
