BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW sectors.
Demand from the FMCG sector continues to benefit from the trend Within the overall weaker market towards the use of retail-ready packaging RRP, which can be readily converted from its initial role as a protective transit pack into a box or tray for boxes there is a continuing that can be placed on display in the retail store.
RRP benefits retailers by reducing the manual work involved in loading goods onto store shelves strong trend towards the and reducing the amount of damage to goods in store, while enabling products to be presented more attractively.
RRP requires more sophisticated greater use of lighter-weight packaging manufacturing capabilities for cutting, printing and gluing the corrugated board to form the more complicated box structures.
increased proportion of these higher value-added boxes, often requiring multi-passes within the production process, has contributed to capacity utilisation across the corrugated industry remaining higher than would PACKAGING be indicated by the overall level of demand.
PAPER AND CORRUGATED Usage of corrugated packaging for the home delivery of products continues to grow in association with the growth of purchasing through the internet.
MARKET OVERVIEW In contrast, the usage of boxes in most industrial manufacturing sectors has been severely affected by the sharp downturn in industrial activity THE CORRUGATED PACKAGING MARKET throughout Europe.
Demand from the automotive, construction and The European market for corrugated packaging in 2008 is estimated to chemical industries has been particularly weak.
have been approximately 23 billion, equivalent to circa 22 million tonnes 1 or 40 billion square metres, of which the UK market is estimated to be 9%.
Within the overall weaker market for boxes there is a continuing strong trend Demand for corrugated packaging is principally influenced by overall towards the greater use of lighter-weight corrugated packaging.
This trend is being driven not only by the continuing pressure through the supply chain to economic activity and manufacturing output.
reduce the cost of packaging but also the increased attention being given to In the calendar year 2008, the European market for corrugated packaging, the quantity and type of packaging being used in order to reduce the amount 2 measured in square metres, declined by 2.8%.
Demand in western Europe of waste going to landfill.
Corrugated packaging is fully recyclable and the fell by 3.3% and within this the UK market fell by 3.5%.
Demand in eastern trend towards use of lighter-weight boxes has been enabled by the increasing and central Europe continued to be relatively stronger but only grew by availability of high-quality lightweight recycled corrugated case material 0.1%.
Owing to cost and environmental pressures, there is a continuing CCM with good strength characteristics.
This lightweight CCM allows box emphasis in most markets on reducing the average weight of packaging.
manufacturers to produce packaging with high performance characteristics As a result, European demand when measured by weight declined by 3.6% while reducing the weight of material used.
and the UK market, which is at the forefront of the lightweighting trend, fell Supply of corrugated board and boxes is generally relatively local to the by 4.6%.
Across Europe, demand deteriorated as the year progressed and point of production, with a typical operational radius of approximately 150 this trend continued in the early months of 2009. miles, owing to customers service requirements and the proportionately high Usage of corrugated packaging boxes for the fast-moving consumer transport costs for a low-density product.
Pricing and margins in corrugated goods FMCG sector, which accounts for approximately two-thirds of the packaging are strongly influenced by developments in the price of CCM, the corrugated market, has been affected by the slow-down in retail demand paper that is the principal component in corrugated packaging, and which but has remained significantly stronger than that for industrial market typically accounts for around 50% of the cost of a box.
1 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers DS Smith estimates 2 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers EXPANDING OUR RECYCLING SERVICES STRENGTH TODAY ACTIONS FOR TOMORROW We have developed Severnside Recycling into a significant asset for the Group.
In addition to being a major 20 times collector of waste paper for recycling, it is now one of the UKs largest We collect, each year, sufficient collectors of plastic waste for recycling.
waste paper forrecycling to fill the bowl ofWembley Stadium From its headquarters in South Wales, circa 20 times.
it co-ordinates the collection of waste from circa 12,500 business locations and provides a range of waste management services.
com P a p e r c o n v e BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING r t e d i n t o b o a r d g a n n i d l c t h y e c n e b r o x r e o s f f o d e s o p s i P d a d p n e r a f d i b e r s e u s s e r x e o c y B c l e THE CORRUGATED PACKAGING RECYCLING PROCESS DS Smiths operations play a significant role in the first three stages of the corrugated packaging recycling process.
The fibres in corrugated boxes can be back on the shelf in-store within 14 days of disposal: their re-use minimises waste disposal to landfill.
In the UK, over 80% of corrugated packaging is recycled.
Corrugated boxes protect THE products, reduce product CORRUGATED wastage, enable more efficient and lower-cost LOOP handling and transportation and are increasingly used to provide strong visual display in-store.
Approximately twothirds are used for food, beverages and other fastmoving consumer goods.
THE CORRUGATED CASE MATERIAL MARKET Whereas boxes are generally sold locally, CCM is sold on a pan-European basis and pricing is therefore affected by pan-European supply and demand.
The total demand for CCM in Europe including eastern and central Europe but not Russia in 2008 was circa 25 million tonnes.
The market for CCM in Europe is dependent upon European demand for corrugated packaging, as the imports and exports of unfilled boxes are negligible.
Approximately 80% of the CCM used in Europe is made from recycled fibre, with the balance principally comprising kraftliner, which is made from virgin wood pulp.
CCM reels are shipped from the Corrugated board is cut to the paper mill to a box plant for conversion required size before its final The lower demand for boxes has resulted in reduced demand for CCM.
However, within the overall CCM market there is strong demand for highquality, lightweight CCM to produce lighter-weight packaging.
The growth in the usage of lightweight CCM continues to be limited by the available supply of lightweight paper as the majority of the existing CCM machines are unable to manufacture lightweight papers cost-effectively or to an acceptable quality.
This increased demand for high-quality lightweight CCM is resulting in the addition of new CCM capacity capable of producing lightweight paper.
In January 2009, the Group started production of its K-light lightweight CCM product at Kemsley.
Other European producers plan to commence production of lightweight CCM on new machines located in Poland, Hungary and Germany during the DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 15 d i n t o p a p e r d e r e v i l e d d n U a s e d d e b o l l x i f e s s a e n x d o p B a p e r c o l l e c t e d, s o r t e d a n d b a l e d BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED second half of 2009 and in 2010.
This new capacity, which is expected UK PAPER AND CORRUGATED PACKAGING to be started in 2009 and 2010, will produce circa 1.5 million tonnes per annum when it is fully operational.
It is anticipated that the production from the new machines will principally be targeted at satisfying the rapidly Results were affected by lower growing European demand for lightweight paper.
demand and a sharp fall in the During 2008 and 2009, a number of closures of older recycled CCM machines, representing circa 0.8 million tonnes of capacity, have been price of CCM.
announced and implemented across the industry.
Despite these closures it is estimated that there is currently an oversupply of some three to four 2008 09 2007 08 million tonnes of CCM in Europe as a result of the current lower demand Revenue m 785.8 753.2 for boxes.
Adjusted operating profit m 36.5 68.5 CCM AND BOX PRICES Adjusted EBITDA m 73.2 100.4 The reduced demand for corrugated packaging during 2008 resulted in Segment key performance indicators: an increase in European industry CCM stocks and this, coupled with the developing oversupply position, led to a progressive weakening of the Revenue growth % 4.3% 9.6% price of recycled CCM.
In continental Europe recycled CCM prices fell by Adjusted return on sales % 4.6% 9.1% 3 approximately 50% between December 2007 and April 2009.
Recycled Adjusted EBITDA margin % 9.3% 13.3% CCM prices in the UK, which were supported to some extent by the Adjusted return on average capital employed % 6.7% 14.3% weakness of sterling, fell by approximately 30% over the same period.
before exceptional items of 18.2 million 2007 08: nil The combination of weaker demand and lower CCM prices has resulted in some reduction in box prices.
This reduction has been more marked in 2008 09 PERFORMANCE continental Europe than in the UK.
Results in the UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging segment were adversely affected by lower demand and a sharp fall in the price of CCM.
WASTE PAPER Our corrugated box business performed well despite a lower demand for Waste paper, the principal raw material for recycled CCM, is a globally boxes but this was not sufficient to offset the weaker results in our paper traded commodity.
The price of old corrugated containers OCC, the principal grade of waste paper used for producing CCM fell sharply in business.
Revenue advanced by 4.3% to 785.8 million: on a like-for-like autumn 2008 as a result of substantially reduced demand from Asia.
The basis, excluding New Thames Mill, acquired in February 2008, revenue price of OCC has firmed in recent months as a result of some recovery in declined by 4.4%.
Adjusted operating profit was significantly lower at 36.5 million 2007 08: 68.5 million.
purchasing from Asia and the lower level of availability in Europe, which is due to the lower overall level of economic activity.
In the UK, the value Our waste collection business, Severnside Recycling, performed of Packaging Recovery Notes PRNs, which are issued as evidence that satisfactorily despite the effects of large swings in the price of waste packaging has been reprocessed in compliance with the UK Packaging material during the year and lower sales volumes.
The amount of waste Waste Regulations, has remained at a low level.
available for collection was lower due to the reduced levels of activity at retailers and other businesses.
The dislocation in the market for waste caused by the sharply reduced demand from Asia resulted in Severnside acquiring a number of significant new customers, who recognised the benefits of Severnsides expertise and infrastructure for waste collection and recycling.
The Groups reprocessing capability at its paper mills and the Groups own requirement for waste paper were increased during the year by the start-up of the converted paper machine at Kemsley which produces lightweight CCM.
In addition to fulfilling its primary role of securing the required quantities of fibre for our UK paper mills, Severnside developed further its value-added waste management services in response to growing demand, which is being stimulated by government action to reduce the amount of waste going to landfill.
During the course of the year, Severnside and our UK box business, DS Smith Packaging, have further strengthened their marketing collaboration for our cradle-to-cradle environmental capability.
Customers are increasingly recognising the benefits of the Groups expertise in the design of waste-minimising packaging, the manufacture of fully recyclable boxes and waste recycling and disposal services.
St Regis, our UK paper business, was affected by significantly lower sales volume and a squeeze on its margins due to the fall in the price of CCM and continuing high input costs.
These factors increasingly affected results during the second half of the year.
In addition to the lower demand for CCM as a result of reduced box demand, plasterboard liner sales were severely affected by the slow-down in the construction industry.
Production at the mills was adjusted in recognition of the reduced level of demand.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING We have adjusted capacity levels and costs in our corrugated operations to reflect the reduced demand and changes in product mix.
As we enter 2009 10, the recent trends in both demand and pricing across the UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging segment have been adverse and energy and waste paper input costs are exerting further pressure on our margins.
We have taken action to reduce costs and raise operational performance and are focused on maximising the opportunities presented by our strong market positions.
The new stock preparation plant Production of lightweight CCM was a major part of the investment to at New Thames Mill began on modify New Thames Mill at Kemsley.
In January 2009, production of lightweight CCM commenced on schedule on the recently acquired and modified paper machine at Kemsley, which has an initial capacity of 260,000 tonnes per annum.
The quality of the K-light product being produced is exceeding our high expectations and there is strong demand for this lightweight paper despite the generally weak demand for CCM as a whole.
Although prices currently being obtained for the product are below those anticipated when the project was initiated, this investment has, we believe, materially strengthened the longterm competitiveness of our UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging business.
It has established us as a leader in high-quality lighter-weight packaging and given us a significant capability as well as an increased share of this growth market segment.
As a result of the lower overall demand for CCM, we closed, with effect from 1 May 2009, the PM1 machine at Kemsley, which was the Groups oldest paper machine and had a capacity of 75,000 tonnes per annum.
DS Smith Packaging, our UK box business, achieved a good result, maintaining its share in a weaker overall market.
Prices began to come under pressure during the second half of the year.
We benefited from our expanded and strengthened position in the FMCG sector of the market and particularly from our focus on RRP, which continues to increase its share of the market.
We are continuing to develop our innovative supply chain support service, as part of which we work with customers to produce packaging solutions that will reduce customers transportation and handling costs.
In our sheet feeding operations, which supply corrugated sheet to box converters, we have retained our market share and have had a positive response to the use of our K-light material.
LEADING THE WAY IN LIGHTWEIGHT CCM STRENGTH TODAY ACTIONS FOR TOMORROW Our investment at Kemsley to produce lightweight CCM makes St Regis the first and only significant UK supplier of this 5m miles type of paper.
Lightweight CCM is in strong demand and Kemsleys product StRegis, the UKs leading supplier is acknowledged by customers as being of recycled paper, produces circa of a very high quality.
The investment 5million miles of paper each year.
project was highly cost-effective and was completed on time despite its very tight schedule.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 17 BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED CONTINENTAL EUROPEAN CORRUGATED PACKAGING We achieved a strong result despite weak demand across our markets.
2008 09 2007 08 DS Smith Kaysersberg has invested to Retail-ready packaging is supplied Revenue m 363.4 346.0 increase its capabilities for supplying to major international food boxes to the FMCG sector.
Adjusted operating profit m 30.4 20.3 Adjusted EBITDA m 45.8 33.9 Segment key performance indicators: were partly offset by the benefits of our actions and investment aimed at Revenue growth % 5.0% 12.3% increasing our business in the FMCG sector.
Based on its strong market Adjusted return on sales % 8.4% 5.9% positions in the FMCG sector, our Italian business performed well in a worsening trading environment.
Adjusted EBITDA margin % 12.6% 9.8% Adjusted return on average capital employed % 15.2% 10.9% In our developing markets, the Polish business achieved a further strong before exceptional items of 24.7 million 2007 08: nil advance, gaining share in a broadly static market.
We are benefiting from the investments we have made over a number of years and our focus on 2008 09 PERFORMANCE developing sales of higher value-added products.
Our small converting The Continental European Corrugated Packaging segment achieved a businesses in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, aimed principally at the strong result despite weak demand across its markets.
Revenue increased automotive industry in central Europe, experienced especially tough trading by 5% to 363.4 million 2007 08: 346.0 million.
Results at our business in Turkey, which focuses on the brown is a substantial net buyer of paper, benefited from our previous actions to and white goods and automotive sectors were also depressed by the raise prices, the fall in the price of CCM and good cost control.
We have extended our programme these factors enabled us to offset the effects of lower sales volumes.
aimed at lowering costs and improving performance and we are taking Operating profit increased by 50% to 30.4 million.
Excluding the effects an impairment charge against this business.
Operating results at our of foreign exchange translation, revenue was 40.5 million lower than Ukrainian associate business, Rubezhansk, which is reported under 2007 08.
Operating profit, excluding the effects of foreign exchange associates, were affected by weaker sales volume and margin pressure.
was 3.3 million higher than in the prior year.
Although the business remains profitable and cash generative, we have fully impaired the value of our investment in it because of its exposure In our established markets, the French paper business, which focuses on to a large US dollar denominated loan.
supplying speciality products, maintained its profits despite substantially lower sales volume.
Our French corrugated packaging business made In 2009 10, we expect margins to come under increased pressure while good progress, assisted by better margins and operational improvements sales volumes remain subdued.
Our priorities are to maintain good levels at the main facilities.
Our particularly strong market position in heavy-duty of profitability in our three principal markets, France, Italy and Poland.
We packaging for the industrial sector in France was severely affected by the will continue to develop the Polish business and concentrate on supplying sharply lower level of activity in its customers industries.
The effects of this the higher value-added product sectors in all our markets.
INVESTING FOR GROWTH STRENGTH TODAY ACTIONS FOR TOMORROW We have grown our business in Poland by circa 125% over the last five years.
Our plant at Kutno is one of the most 250m advanced in Europe and achieves very high efficiency levels.
Recent investment DS Smith Polska produces over in Poland has been heavily focused on 250 million boxes a year.
further developing our capabilities to supply higher value-added products for the FMCG sector.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING 2008 09 PERFORMANCE PLASTIC PACKAGING DS Smith Plastics revenue increased by 6% to 236.9 million, including the positive effect of foreign exchange translation.
Results were lower in Results were lower in both of our both of our major sectors and consequently overall adjusted operating profit fell by 34.6% to 7.0 million.
The effects of foreign exchange major sectors.
translation improved revenue and operating profit by 33.9 million and 3.1 million respectively compared with 2007 08.
2008 09 2007 08 Revenue in RTP, which accounted for 43% of the segment revenue, was Revenue m 236.9 223.4 6.0% lower due to weak and variable demand from almost all its main Adjusted operating profit m 7.0 10.7 customer sectors.
Sales to the construction and automotive sectors fell sharply and our beverage crate business was significantly affected by the Adjusted EBITDA m 19.2 21.2 deferral by our customers of anticipated crate replacement programmes.
Segment key performance indicators: Revenue growth % 6.0% 10.7% In LP&D, revenue, which accounted for 45% of the segment, grew by 16.2%.
Our USA operations maintained their good performance, partly Adjusted return on sales % 3.0% 4.8% due to the development of new market sectors for bag-in-box packaging.
Adjusted EBITDA margin % 8.1% 9.5% Our European operations continued to be affected by competitive pressures, Adjusted return on average capital employed % 5.3% 8.4% particularly in the wine sector.
The restructuring of our operations in before an exceptional charge of 4.0 million 2007 08: 1.9 million Germany was completed in April 2009 and further restructuring of our tap and bag operations in the UK is being implemented.
MARKET OVERVIEW Returnable transit packaging RTP products are mostly used within the We are seeking to mitigate the effects of the ongoing weak retail, automotive, electronics and beverage sectors.
Demand is heavily demand, especially in RTP, through our restructuring actions and influenced by industry sector activity levels.
RTP is often a capital purchase productivity improvements.
for our customers, being driven by particular projects, hence annual demand can be uneven.
The European market for RTP, which is estimated to be approximately 1 billion, is fragmented into many product subsectors and has a large number of suppliers.
In western Europe, the markets we serve are estimated to have declined in 2008 by 15% as a result of the slow-down in industrial and retail activity.
The previous trend towards the use of multi-trip, reusable packaging on cost and environmental grounds has reduced in recent years, although there remain many market sectors that are well suited to returnable systems.
This slowdown in demand has been partly a result of the fluctuations in polymer costs and partly a result of the general decline in economic activity.
Returnable transit packaging is Bag-in-box packaging is being used The global market for liquid packaging and dispensing LP&D products is designed to meet the needs of for an expanding range of products, estimated to be approximately 400 million.
The principal uses of bag-incustomers logistics systems.
box packaging are for wine, agricultural produce such as fruit juice and dairy products and food service applications such as carbonated softdrink concentrate for the hotel and restaurant industries.
The market for dispensing products principally taps, other than for bag-in-box systems, is fragmented across a wide range of applications.
DS Smith Plastics is a major supplier to the wine and liquid detergent sector: the latter has grown strongly in recent years in the USA and has more recently started to grow in Europe.
The recent volatility of polymer prices has contributed additional uncertainty into our markets over the last year.
During the first half of calendar year 2008, polymer prices rose substantially as a result of the high oil price, reaching a peak in August 2008.
They then fell sharply during the autumn and early winter months before firming again during the first half of 2009.
This volatility contributed to the uncertainty of demand during this period as it exacerbated the tendency of customers to defer ordering products, particularly in the RTP sector.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 19 BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED competitive market situation, put substantial pressure on profits.
Action has OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING been taken to improve the sales mix and to raise efficiency levels further, with the aim of reversing this downward profit trend.
Profit was flat, assisted by a good In continental Europe, our well-established businesses in France and the Benelux region performed solidly despite their revenue being affected by performance in continental Europe.
the decline in the overall market: our Benelux operations were additionally impacted by a change in government policy in Flanders regarding the 2008 09 2007 08 supply of stationery to younger school children.
Spicers Germany Revenue m 720.5 644.9 continued its development, reporting good revenue growth, assisted by Adjusted operating profit m 20.1 20.1 further improvement in its service levels.
Our Italian operation once again showed good overall growth, consolidating its position as a significant Adjusted EBITDA m 25.7 26.1 supplier in this market and reporting its first full year of profit.
Spicers Key performance indicators: Spain produced a creditable result in light of the severity of the national Revenue growth % 11.7% 13.3% economic slow-down in this country, which affected its overall revenue Adjusted return on sales % 2.8% 3.1% despite growing its EOS sales.
Adjusted EBITDA margin % 3.6% 4.0% George Adams, who was appointed to the role of Chief Executive of Adjusted return on average capital employed % 15.2% 15.1% Spicers in June 2009, brings with him a wealth of relevant business before an exceptional charge of 3.7 million 2007 08: nil experience both in the UK and continental Europe as well as a good understanding of the Spicers business.
MARKET OVERVIEW The office products markets of the UK, France and Germany, in which We expect the current year to be testing, especially in the UK market.
Spicers currently has approximately 85% of its sales, are estimated to be Throughout 2009 10, our priorities at Spicers are to maintain our good worth approximately 5 billion, 6 billion and 7 billion respectively, at overall performance in continental Europe while re-establishing profit manufacturers selling prices.
The demand for office products is principally improvement in the UK.
We will focus on improving our overall sales influenced by the level of economic activity.
The value of the markets in levels, primarily in traditional office products, and on tight cost control.
which Spicers operates fell in 2008, with the traditional stationery sector We believe that Spicers is well placed to take advantage of improved declining significantly although the electronic office supplies EOS sector economic conditions when they arrive, due to its strong market positions 4 continued to show modest growth.
The value of the market is being held and its thorough understanding of supply chain management.
back by price deflation caused by intense competition between suppliers and the trend for consumers to buy lower specification or own-branded products.
EOS, which is a growing sector of the market, accounts for approximately 50% of the total office products market.
It is especially price-competitive on the high-volume EOS products.
The relative shares of the various supply channels to the end-user market differ by country.
Spicers principally supplies office products dealers and resellers.
In the countries in which Spicers operates, this channel accounts, on average, for approximately 35% of the total office products market.
The share of the market held by dealers has been relatively stable in recent Customers orders are picked and Spicers distribution centres process years.
Office products dealers primarily sell to small and medium-sized despatched for same-day or for nextorders for circa 700,000 line-items organisations, generally offer a high standard of service to their customers day overnight delivery.
and source most of their products either from wholesalers or direct from manufacturers.
2008 09 PERFORMANCE Office Products Wholesaling Spicers showed an overall sales growth, which was magnified by the translation benefits of the strong euro.
Despite the adverse impact of the economic environment on the demand for office products, revenue increased by 11.7% to 720.5 million 2007 08: 644.9 million.
Adjusted operating profit was flat at 20.1 million, due to a fall in profit in the UK and Ireland while profits in continental Europe as a whole increased slightly, assisted by the strength of the euro.
The effects of foreign exchange translation improved revenue by 57.9 million and operating profit by 3.1 million compared with 2007 08.
In the UK, which accounts for approximately half of our office products wholesaling revenue, we grew sales.
However, this growth masks a significant decline in traditional office products, offset by a large growth in lower margin EOS.
Despite our actions to reduce the cost to sales ratio, the fall-off in traditional product sales, combined with the effects of a highly 4 Source: DS Smith estimates based on national data 20 www.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING SPICERS BUSINESS MODEL : Everythingfortheofce,  acrossEurope, brandedandown-label  promotions  E-commercesystems Fastservicesame next-daydelivery  DEALERS & RESELLERS Selltoend-users Someholdstock  : OFFICE END-USERS      KEY  COMMUNICATION PRODUCT ORDERS PRODUCT DELIVERIES furniture,  Product range Orders placed catalogue internet mainlyvia Marketing support e-commercesystems ADDING VALUE FOR OUR DEALERS STRENGTH TODAY ACTIONS FOR TOMORROW Spicers continually develops new ways to support its customers.
It provides its dealers with marketing material such as 22,000 promotional catalogues and brochures.
Its innovative e-commerce systems Spicers suppliesup to 22,000 enable ever faster and more efficient office product lines to some communication between Spicers, its 12,500 dealers across Europe.
Increasingly, Spicers provides a complete fulfilment service, delivering direct to end-users.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 21
