14 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operational Review Drew Johnson Chief Executive Officer in the wider central and local Government outsourcing I am pleased to present this 1 market, which is estimated to be worth 7bn annually.
With pressures mounting on the public purse, the need review of the last twelve months to target cost savings and efficiencies by outsourcing and, as Chief Executive, to be processes and services to reliable partners is increasingly evident across both central and local Government.
in a position to drive forward Fuel Poverty Schemes eagas continuing commercial The Warm Front Scheme is one of the major outsourced programmes delivered on behalf of central Government.
The Scheme is Governments central instrument for tackling The business has gone through energy affordability in England, and is wholly delivered by eaga.
Warm Front continues to form a critical element a number of changes over within Governments statutory commitment to eradicate fuel poverty in vulnerable households those containing the last twelve months, but the children, the elderly, disabled or long-term sick by 2010 imperatives that will not change and in all homes by 2016.
The value for money provided by eaga as lead contractor for Warm Front was endorsed are our focus on delivering for in a National Audit Office report released in February 2009. our customers and the drive Activity under the Scheme is dependent upon the funding to keep our values at the heart made available by Government.
In recognising both the Schemes popularity and the increasing imperative to take of what we do.
further action on its fuel poverty objectives, the Government announced two separate increases in Warm Front funding over the last twelve months.
The first, an additional 74m for eagas Markets the 2008 09 and 2009 10 financial years, was announced eagas expansion and strategic development over the on 11 September 2008 as part of the Home Energy Saving last two years has been focused on realising the emerging Programme.
This was followed by the announcement in the potential evident in the Groups core markets.
These are Pre-Budget Report on 24 November 2008 that the Scheme centred around: would benefit from an additional 100m over the three year business process outsourcing BPO, where we deliver period to March 2011.
These funding increases took annual large scale programmes for a range of customers, such as funding for Warm Front to 395m for the twelve months to the Department of Energy and Climate Change DECC, 31 March 2009, compared to 350m during the twelve the BBC and the Legal Services Commission LSC : months to 31 March 2008. the provision of energy efficient central heating and eaga has worked closely with DECC as our customer renewable energy solutions, along with associated in outlining and implementing several changes to the repair, maintenance and servicing products: and Scheme over the last twelve months.
The structural changes that have been announced over the period residential carbon saving solutions, providing services include an increase in the maximum grant available, for energy utilities and residential social landlords.
changes to the supply chain allocation process and some changes to the delivery process aimed at making Business Process Outsourcing the Scheme more seamless for the end customer.
eaga has an established infrastructure and customerThe new contract, which was finalised on 22 July 2009, focused approach, built up primarily in our Managed extends eagas tenure to 31 March 2011 and has provision Services segment through a wealth of experience in for a further two year extension beyond that point.
delivering schemes such as Warm Front and the Switchover Help Scheme.
This strong base ensures that we are well placed to take advantage of the sizeable opportunities 1 ICT and business process outsourcing in the UK public sector to 2012, Kable.
Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 2009 738.9m 16% 2008 639.0m Rise in revenue The equivalent fuel poverty scheme in Wales HEES The next areas to switch to digital will be Wales and continues to operate well with additional funding secured Granada.
More than 1.7m households are estimated in the year.
Whilst being unsuccessful in the retender for to be eligible in these areas alone, and we are already the Northern Ireland programme, we are currently in the actively increasing our capacity further to meet the process of tendering for delivery and management of challenge of delivering in these regions.
the fuel poverty programmes in Scotland.
Advice Services Switchover Help Scheme eaga delivers telephone based advice services for We have seen a ramp up in activity on the delivery of a variety of customers focusing principally on benefits, the Switchover Help Scheme with four transmitter regions debt and legal advice.
As global economic conditions switched in the year, covering Borders and the West become increasingly difficult the impact on personal Country.
The process of switchover went well in each finances, debt and affordability of basic essentials are area, with the Switchover Help Scheme offering effective all drivers for growth in our advice services work.
support throughout to elderly and disabled householders.
Activity under our contracts with the LSC, as well as for the fuel poverty schemes we manage, has continued its growth over the period.
This growth has been entirely organic, with success driven by the quality of advice provided and the levels of customer service delivered.
This was pivotal in the decision by the LSC to exercise a two year extension to March 2011 to eagas contract as one of its preferred suppliers.
In the year to 31 May 2009 we have opened some 20,000 cases under our contract with the LSC, an increase of 31% from the prior year.
In managing the Switchover Help Scheme, eaga is continuing On the income advisory elements of our work, the team to strengthen relationships with potential partners in this arena, completed some 84,000 Benefit Entitlement Checks last which may offer future potential for extending relationships year, an increase of 21% from the prior year.
Where a into wider commercial opportunities as the digitisation check revealed additional entitlement to benefit, as it agenda gathers pace.
This was illustrated during the year by does in more than 40% of cases, our advisors identified eagas successful bid to manage the care homes element of an average increase in income of more than 1,600 the Switchover Help Scheme which was tendered separately per year for those householders.
to the main programme by the Department of Culture, Media and Sport.
Future Opportunities eagas prospects for ongoing development in the wider Whilst we are still relatively early in the life of the Switchover BPO market are promising.
As local authority budgets Help Scheme, at year end we had already written and become increasingly pressured, so the imperative to offered assistance to more than 1.1m households across consider cost savings and efficiencies by outsourcing the country, providing help and support across a range processes becomes increasingly compelling.
of available options to make the switch to digital television.
16 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operational Review Continued An important element of our development in this area has Future Opportunities been our agreement to form a joint venture with Newcastle The private heating market is addressed by eaga through City Council to compete effectively in the local authority programmes such as Warm Front and through a number market.
The venture, to be branded The Real Partnership, of strategic partnerships.
We are ideally placed to deliver brings together eagas established infrastructure and high quality services to our strategic partners given our delivery model and Newcastle City Councils knowledge established nationwide platform, which provides us with and understanding of the market drivers.
The venture is significant opportunity for further growth.
Our capacity likely to have a six to twelve month lead in time to secure is clearly demonstrated by eaga securing a contract to new contracts as processes become established, but offers deliver emergency heating breakdown services to the potential for significant growth and expansion into the local customers of a leading credit card provider.
In order to better realise the full range of opportunities Domestic Heating and Renewable Energy Services available through the development of our emergency Through the Groups Installation Services segment eaga breakdown and servicing business, eaga reached is one of the largest installers of energy efficient central agreement with Ideal Boilers Limited on 31 August 2009 heating in the UK.
It is estimated that this fragmented to acquire their share of the WarmSure joint venture.
2 market is worth in excess of 5bn annually.
Our customers During the year to 31 May 2009 WarmSure, which offers in these markets include social landlords, Governmentnationwide heating repair and maintenance services, funded fuel poverty schemes, strategic commercial performed 247,000 annual service visits and 177,000 partners and private able to pay customers.
breakdown visits, increases of 26% and 24% respectively.
The development of the WarmSure business is already We have seen installation activity increase by approximately offering opportunities to deliver central heating servicing 7% during the year, with 44,800 2008: 41,700 installations and repair services into new customer relationships.
This is significant in the current economic context, where some areas of the market have seen a eaga has a strong position in the small but growing slowing of installation programmes in light of fiscal tightening.
domestic low carbon and renewable energy markets.
The market has seen limited growth during the year to A key element of our development in the domestic heating 31 May 2009, but we have worked hard to position ourselves market during the past twelve months has been a focus for the opportunities that we expect to unfold following the 3 on brand identity.
To support this development our heating launch of the Governments Low Carbon Transition Plan 4 businesses have commenced a strategic re-branding and related Renewable Energy Strategy during July 2009. exercise to bring several of our established central heating It is our expectation that developments such as feed-in operations under the single brand identity of eagaheat.
tariffs will provide a significant stimulus to this market.
This re-branding process will continue over the next twelve months in order to unify the eaga brand across the markets The confirmation of additional strategic alliances with in which we compete.
organisations such as Solar century have secured a platform to further grow our renewables business.
Solar Improved delivery into the social housing heating market century is the UKs leading solar energy company and during the year reflects our focus on recovery following the our partnership will provide opportunities for delivery challenges last year relating to contract integration.
I am of installation and related services for our renewables pleased to confirm that those areas of the business are now business.
Drawing together the full range of our products performing strongly and provide a solid platform for growth.
and services in the heating installation, servicing and repair market is likely to lead to further opportunities for strategic This recovery, allied to ongoing success winning new partnerships and bundled service offerings in new markets.
contracts supports our view that this remains an attractive marketplace.
Overall, our market share within the social Residential Carbon Saving housing arena remains significant, with 189,000 2008: The UK residential carbon savings market is driven primarily 205,000 boilers under maintenance and servicing contracts through long-term regulatory requirements imposed at year end.
The reduction in properties under cover reflects by Government on the energy suppliers and electricity our decision to withdraw from a small number of unprofitable generators.
The CERT and soon to be implemented contracts during the early part of the financial year.
Since CESP programmes require the suppliers and generators the year end we have seen a number of successful contract to invest in energy efficiency improvements in UK residential retentions, along with new contract wins.
The current targets require estimated 2 BRG consultant and Ideal Stelrad Limited manufacturing data 3 www.
uk en content cms publications 4 www.
uk consultations Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 annual expenditure in excess of 1bn.
eaga is one of Our delivery into the residential carbon savings market the key solution providers for the energy companies has benefited over the period from the commercial and we estimate that our market share is close to 20%.
relationships in place with all six of the UKs major energy suppliers.
Of particular importance is the Groups contract As the drive for residential carbon savings continues with ScottishPower to deliver their entire CERT target.
This to gather momentum, through the expansion of these contract is the first of its kind within the CERT market and bears programmes, there will continue to be significant out eagas expertise and experience in relation to market opportunities for proven delivery providers who are understanding, targeting and carbon management.
Delivery focused on innovative, high volume, scalable carbon commenced in September 2008 and has driven significant saving products and services.
Through the Installation activity we have already seen more than 5.2m tonnes of Services and Specialist Support Services segments, the CO saved.
2 Group has a strong position in the delivery of carbon savings to UK energy suppliers.
The Governments decision Future Opportunities to broaden the statutory obligation to deliver residential As part of the announcement to expand CERT, the carbon savings by extending the requirement to the UK Government also launched CESP, which is projected electricity generators extends our revenue potential and to be worth 350m over the 2009 12 period, drawing in target customer base in this market.
contributions from electricity generators as well as energy suppliers.
We have already made progress in building Our delivery into this market is characterised by our ability relationships with generators as we seek to develop to generate domestic residential carbon savings from a opportunities under CESP, using our national infrastructure range of solutions: the key being our capacity to deliver, to support localised delivery of energy efficiency measures at scale, both traditional solutions, such as loft and cavity and initiatives.
Since the year end, we have reached wall insulation, alongside more innovative solutions such an advanced stage of negotiation with a key electricity as eaga ShowerSmart and external wall insulation.
generator to deliver their whole CESP programme in the UK and we are pursuing a number of other similar opportunities.
Volume delivery of new carbon saving technologies such as eaga ShowerSmart is becoming increasingly important Collectively, the developments on CERT and CESP provide in this marketplace.
The eaga ShowerSmart device typically strong visibility of revenues as we move forward and position results in a saving on household energy bills, with reduced us well for further growth and expansion within this market.
energy used to heat hot water.
For the average household, Moreover, we remain relatively well positioned to deal with the device could save 30 a year off the average energy bill volatility in market demand.
The size of our business, the and a similar amount from the average water bill.
Last year diversity of our product offering and our captive volumes almost 450,000 eaga ShowerSmart devices were distributed mean that eaga has a broader range of alternative to homes across the country, each one having the potential opportunities and significant flexibility to manage our to save a tonne of carbon in the domestic setting.
We are activities in this area.
already working on a portfolio of other innovative solutions which, when delivered at the scale that eaga can offer, will Segmental Performance provide the next platform for further domestic energy and Managed Services carbon savings at rates attractive to our customers.
eagas Managed Services segment provides outsourced solutions to local and central Government and other eagas position in the CERT market was boosted by the commercial organisations.
Governments announcement on 11 September 2008 to increase the CERT obligation on energy suppliers by 20% Revenues increased 4.5% to 439.2m 2008: 420.3m.
This and more recently, their intention to extend the end date of growth reflected increased Warm Front revenue following the obligation by 21 months to December 2012.
The increase the incremental funding discussed earlier and the first year in the targets positions us positively for further growth in this impact of the Switchover Help Scheme.
EBITA increased area by supporting our customers delivery of additional 11.6% to 9.6m 2008: 8.6m and operating margins were savings against their increased obligations.
in line with our expectations at 2.2% 2008: 2.1%.
18 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operational Review Continued Under Warm Front, we assisted 233,000 households Specialist Support Services in the year 2008: 264,000, we continue to deliver short eagas Specialist Support Services segment provides a range waiting times, high levels of customer satisfaction and of solutions which support the contracts and customers we a solid track record on health and safety.
Increasing levels serve in our other segments.
These include central heating of activity under the Switchover Help Scheme, alongside aftercare and insurance services, wholesale insulation and continued growth in our Advice Services business, have fulfilment and brokerage activities in support of the delivery also contributed to increased revenues and stable margins of energy saving products to the CERT market.
Our service offerings in this segment provide us with a flexible Installation Services model to allow us to provide our customers with cost effective eagas Installation Services segment delivers energy solutions whilst maintaining our margins.
During the year we efficiency improvements, along with central heating have achieved a shift in the mix of carbon savings delivered installation and related services to homes across the UK.
to our CERT market customers through the introduction of innovative energy saving products such as eaga The segment continued to grow strongly during the year, ShowerSmart.
EBITA increased by 38.8% Revenues increased by 1.3% to 78.0m 2008: 77.0m.
This to 26.8m 2008: 19.3m and operating margins increased reflects 6.9m revenue contributed from the acquisition of the to 7.9% 2008: 7.8% reflecting changes in business mix, Protocol group of companies during the year to enhance the improvements in social housing contract delivery and Groups fulfilment and distribution capability, partially offset focus on maintaining efficiency across our operations.
by reduced revenues arising primarily from a change in CERT product mix.
The majority of the growth in this segment has been organic in nature, driven by increasing levels of activity on behalf EBITA has increased by 6.7% to 10.8m 2008: 10.1m, with of utility customers in the CERT market and within that, EBITA margin of 13.8% 2008: 13.1%.
This increase in margin specifically the delivery of our ScottishPower outsourcing principally reflects the impact of the mix switch towards contract.
We have directly delivered 199,000 main measure innovative CERT solutions.
insulation improvements in the year representing a 24% increase on the prior year.
Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 Summary Since we last updated the market the fundamental drivers behind eagas ongoing growth have continued to strengthen and the outlook in the Groups core markets remains positive.
We see significant opportunities in all of our markets.
We believe that the retrofitting of energy efficient measures to the existing housing stock will continue to be a major driver of the shift towards a low carbon economy.
The social pressures exerted by the current economic challenges and technological change will continue to stimulate interest in the products and services that we offer supported, at all times by the customer understanding and commitment to service that is at the heart of eagas business.
In order to take advantage of these opportunities, the challenge ahead is to continue building and developing the right partnerships, to enhance our strong market position and our established business platform.
Crucially for eaga, we know that our greatest strength is our ability to deliver for our customers: keeping them at the heart of everything that we do and building on our success as we move forward.
With another positive year of growth and success behind us, a strong balance sheet, and a diverse range of promising opportunities coming more sharply into view, I am confident that eaga remains well placed to deliver continued profitable growth.
Drew Johnson, Chief Executive 1 September 2009 Improving our local environment Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 eaga in the Community Supporting the communities eaga is a people business in which we live and work with with more than 4,000 Partners structured and sustainable committed to delivering financial and human resource.
outstanding service to its customers.
We established the eaga issues at a grass roots Central to our success is eaga was founded to Community Fund during level.
Applications that our commitment to the lead Government-funded 2007 to support community also offer opportunities for principles of employee efforts to improve the living organisations as they seek participation and direct ownership Partnership conditions of vulnerable to tackle, at a local level, the involvement for eaga and a strong set of people living in cold, damp social and environmental Partners are particularly corporate and social and energy inefficient issues that are aligned welcome, as we feel we values.
More than 3m with our own business have a role to play in Partnership ethos underpins has been invested in interests.
The fund supports encouraging our Partners our approach to business the independent eaga projects that educate, to become engaged and and how we interact with Partnership Charitable Trust raise awareness and contribute positively to their the local communities in and funded vital research demonstrate engagement local communities.
which its employees live into solutions to fuel in addressing environmental and work.
Local community organisations, charities, schools and individuals can also apply for funding from the eaga Community Foundation fund which supports projects related to the environment and education in the local communities in which eagas Partners live and work.
3m More than 3m has been invested cumulatively in the independent eaga Partnership Charitable Trust and funded vital research into solutions to fuel poverty.
