Business Review Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 17 Operating Review The Groups operations focused primarily on maximising production volumes in Highlights 2009, following a strategic decision early in the year to produce at maximum FPM capacity to minimise unit fixed costs in the low iron ore price environment.
At the Iron ore pellet production from same time FPM management continued to drive the improvement of product quality the Groups own ore in line with and operating efficiency which continued throughout the year.
As a result of this last year at 8.6mt decision and focused management effort, FPM produced at full capacity from March 7.2% increase in production of with overall output for the year declining only very slightly as a result of lower high quality 65% Fe pellets production volumes in January and February 2009, caused by unseasonably adverse weather conditions that affected Business Improvement the logistics chain.
Programme further reductions Most months from March onward yielded record production levels, and pellet in the use of raw materials and production from own ore was higher than in 2008 by 1,000 tonnes.
Total pellet energy per unit of output production fell by 3% as a result of a lack of available third party concentrate at acceptable prices.
This incremental pellet production from purchased raw materials Yeristovskoye makes use of our surplus pelletising capacity, but has historically yielded low Five draglines delivered, margins.
157kt of pellets were produced from purchased ore and concentrate in assembled and in operation 2009 2008: 427kt.
4.0 million cubic metres The  Lavrikovskoye GPL mine produced 28,547mt of iron stripped from the new ore in 2009, 3% more than in the previous year.
Our focus on quality improvement prompted the use of selective mining Yeristovskoye mine second techniques which increased the proportion of rich K22 ore mined by 10%.
This bench visible increased the overall quality of the ore available to the GPL concentrating plant, thereby increasing its operational efficiency and ultimately improving pellet Marketing quality as measured by the proportion of higher grade 65% Fe pellets produced.
Sales successfully re-balanced For the sixth consecutive year FPM was from Europe to China and back able to increase substantially its production of higher quality 65% Fe full sales volumes maintained pellets.
The production of 65% Fe pellets from our own ore increased by 7% to throughout the year 4,304kt, and now constitutes 49% of FPMs total production 44% in 2008.
This is consistent with our commitment to quality enhancement and our value in use marketing strategy and we intend to continue to increase the proportion of higher quality pellets produced in future years.
Business Improvement Programme BIP 2009 was another successful year for the ongoing BIP projects.
The managers and employees of FPM have firmly taken leadership of the BIP and continue to build F Fe er rr rex exp po p o pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 00 09 9 www www.. f fe er rr re ex xp po.
c o. co om m 18 Business Review Operating Review continued a culture of continuous improvement at Production Operating Statistics our operations.
In addition, FPM engaged Change Partners in Performance International 000t unless otherwise stated 2009 2008 % PiP to assist in the identification of areas Iron ore mined 28,547 27,763 784 2.8 for broader improvement in FPMs operational performance.
Fe content % 30.3 30.2 Iron ore processed 27,720 27,582 138 0.5 We conducted a wide range of workshops Concentrate produced WMS 10,565 10,459 106 1.0 in 2009 designed to entrench the BIP culture.
BIP initiatives were responsible for Fe content % 63.3 63.4 2-3% of the reductions to operating costs Floated concentrate 6,671 6,167 504 8.2 during the year, resulting in total savings Higher grade 4,675 4,375 300 6.9 of US$8.7 million.
BIP continues to be a Fe content % 67.05 67.1 priority for management in respect of both short and long-term objectives and KPIs, Purchased concentrate 180 386 206 53.4 driving FPM continuously towards global Fe content % 65.4 65.2 best practice across its operations.
For Purchased iron ore 0 276 276 100 further information see the Financial Review.
Pellets produced from own ore 8,609 8,608 1 0.0 Higher grade 4,304 4,014 290 7.2 Operating costs Fe content % 64.9 65.0 Operating costs declined modestly but Lower grade 4,305 4,594 289 6.3 steadily throughout the year, benefiting from further depreciation in the local Fe content % 62.2 62.2 currency and lower local inflation than in Pellets produced from purchased past years.
Producing at full capacity concentrate and ore 157 427 270 63.2 allowed the Group to recover its fixed Lower grade 157 427 270 63.2 costs efficiently.
Fe content % 62.2 62.2 Efficiency gains, driven largely by the various Total pellet production 8,767 9,035 268 3.0 BIP projects, enabled us to reduce the rates Pellet sales volume 9,015 8,711 304 3.5 of consumption of energy and raw materials Gravel output 2,846 2,751 95 3.5 in 2009.
The average number of employees 3 at FPM fell by 5% in 2009 through normal Stripping volume 000m 23,559 20,573 2,986 14.5 turnover driven by efficiency programmes.
Significant additional work Management was able to avoid any forced was estimated at the peak of the commodity has been done this year on optimising the redundancies during the year.
As of cycle in 2008 and consequently we expect scope and cost of this project and the 31 December 2009, 8,204 people were that capital costs will be reduced when final Group is currently considering an initial employed by FPM 31 December 2008: commitments to these projects are made.
Stage 1 investment that would enable the 8,243.
This number includes 65 temporary The process of restating these costs is progressing and planned to be completed production of all 65% Fe pellets.
The workers employed for the development of in the first half of 2010. market will be informed of the revised Yeristovskoye until the transfer of mining scope and cost of this project once the licences from FPM to Ferrexpo GPL Projects assessment is completed.
Yeristovskoye Mining FYM is completed.
Open pit mine expansion Work on this project was suspended at This Stage 1 upgrade remains a priority Further detail on the Groups employment costs is available in note 39 to the accounts.
the end of 2008 and has remained on hold as it will enable all of the Groups mined in 2009 as the Group has focused on ore to be processed into 65% Fe pellets in Growth Projects maintaining current production from the line with market preference.
The project Ferrexpo is committed to increasing mine at minimal C1 costs and progressing design will provide for a Stage 2 project production from its existing mine, stripping at Yeristovskoye.
This project for the production of Direct Reduction improving its product quality and remains a priority for the Group as it DR grade 68% Fe pellets.
65% Fe commercialising the substantial enables us to take advantage of currently pellets enjoy more robust demand, and undeveloped resources located adjacent under-utilised processing capacity and will DR pellets would constitute a new to its existing operations.
Consequently, increase production of 65% Fe pellets by premium product for Ferrexpo which we the Groups major growth projects remain approximately 15%.
We anticipate a could sell into world markets and in a priority and modest progress was made decision on the phasing of this project in particular the Middle East, a nearby in 2009 even though large capital conjunction with the Yeristovskoye attractive Growth Market.
The focus has expansion to be made in 2010. been on re-examining the scope and Yeristovskoye capital expenditure estimates of all the GPL Concentrator plant upgrade The Yeristovskoye project remains the projects and on the pre-stripping works at A Definitive Feasibility Study DFS for the Groups primary and most advanced major the new Yeristovskoye mine where GPL concentrator plant upgrade was growth project.
The scope of the project progress has been made this year.
The project includes the construction of the new was not presented to the Board for Yeristovskoye mine, a dedicated The capital expenditure for these projects approval owing to the onset of the concentrator plant and potentially also a Business Review Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
Following Group also engaged the services of local completion of the Yeristovskoye DFS in small trucking contractors to supplement September 2008, formal commitment to the CAT fleet for the first phase of the project was not sought from the Board overburden removal and this enabled us to because of the economic climate.
However, remove overburden at minimal cost.
Board clearance was given to continue some operational expenditure and small Significant progress was achieved with the future commitments at a limited level to Ukrainian Central Land Authority enable the value of the project to be DerzhComZem approval process for the maintained and to minimise delays to the west and east Yeristovskoye area land original development schedule.
In addition acquisition programme which is required to investing in the DFS, the Group had for ongoing development of the mine.
already purchased five dragline excavators and the initial mining fleet for the purposes Stripping will continue at the Yeristovskoye of pre-stripping at the site of the new mine.
mine in 2010 and first ore can be achieved in early 2013, subject to full project In 2009, the Group took delivery of and approval during 2010.
Subject to further commissioned five draglines and four CAT reviews in 2010, it is envisaged that a 789 haul trucks, and commenced work on portion of Yeristovskoye ore will be the pre-stripping of the Yeristovskoye processed using excess processing mine.
Construction of the Yeristovskoye capacity at GPL for the first two years.
mine requires a three-year pre-strip before This will enable the Group to defer first ore is reached.
It was decided by the commitment to the capital expenditure for Board that scaled down stripping works the Yeristovskoye concentrator plant by up should proceed at Yeristovskoye in 2009, to 24 months.
as stripping is time-consuming and a major delay would impact the schedule of In 2008, the Group established a separate the entire project significantly.
As a result, company called Ferrexpo Yeristovskoye Mining FYM to provide for a separate the Group spent US$23 million on legal and management structure for the stripping works, mining fleet and site development of the Yeristovskoye project.
facilities construction at Yeristovskoye in FYM is 51% owned by FPM and 49% by 2009 and removed 4.0 million cubic Ferrexpo AG.
In December 2009, the metres of overburden from the site.
The Yeristovskoye mining licence formerly held by FPM was re-issued to FYM.
Belanovskoye and Galeschinskoye Developments are planned at the Belanovskoye and Galeschinskoye deposits which are less advanced.
The Group continues to perform the work at these deposits required for licence maintenance as well as undertaking further drilling for the detailed testing of geotechnical conditions and ore quality.
All of the Groups developments will take place on the same ore body that we are currently exploiting and are situated adjacent to our existing logistics infrastructure.
As a result, these investments represent low risk additions to new iron ore capacity compared with many other iron ore projects globally.
Strategic Investor Programme During 2008, we identified several potential strategic investors, but this programme remains on hold pending completion of the review of our capital expenditure requirements and improvements to market conditions and asset prices.
F Fe er rr rex exp po p o pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 00 09 9 www www.. f fe er rr re ex xp po.
c o. co om m 20 Business Review Operating Review continued exposed the Group to freight volatility.
Freight rates from the Black Sea to Asia were high relative to other routes in the second and third quarters of 2009 and this put pressure on the Groups average achieved DAF FOB price during that period.
Of the total iron ore exported by the Group in 2009 by value, 39% was sold into China 2008: 18%.
Most of the remainder was sold into the Groups established markets in Central and Western Europe and Turkey.
The Group actively continues to seek to open new markets and in 2009 we began supplying new customers on the northwest coast of India on a spot basis.
We believe that India will prove to be an important new Growth Market for the Group.
An analysis of sales by market is contained in note 6 to the accounts.
The following table shows our principal export markets for iron ore pellets for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008 by volume : Change 000t 2009 2008 % Traditional Markets 4,083 5,781 1,698 29 Natural Markets 713 323 390 121 Marketing Marketing performance in 2009 Growth The visible weakness in demand for iron Markets 3,545 1,558 1,986 127 ore in Europe in the final quarter of 2008 Total continued into the first half of 2009.
As a exports 8,341 7,662 678 9 result, while the Group was able to sell volumes comparable with other years in Approximately 70% of our 2009 sales by 2009, our geographic sales mix reflects a volume were made pursuant to long-term greater proportion of sales to seaborne supply contracts, a lower level of contract markets such as China than has sales than the 88% seen in 2008.
This was historically been the case.
In addition, the again the result of increased spot selling in Ukrainian steel industry was more severely the first seven months of the year in affected than those in Western Europe, response to continuing demand weakness with the result that 95% of our output by from European and Ukrainian contract volume was exported in 2009 2008: 88%.
During the third quarter of The share of pellet sales to Ukrainian 2009, re-stocking began in Europe and we customers therefore decreased from 12% began actively shifting back to supplying in 2008 to 8% in 2009.
We increased our portfolio of long-term contract seaborne export sales in response to this customers there during this period.
weakness in Europe and Ukraine by Throughout the year our solid customer actively and carefully selling into the spot relationships have demonstrated their market in Asia to known customers in value, first in assisting us to place order to protect the Ferrexpo brand, whilst additional spot volumes through our increasing shipments to long-term export long-term contract customers in China customers.
Domestic Ukrainian sales are and then later in returning to full contract made on an ex-works basis while export volumes with our European customers sales are usually made on a Delivered at ahead of competing suppliers.
Despite Frontier DAF or Free on Board FOB demand weakness in Ukraine and our basis.
The Group reports average Traditional Markets see market definitions achieved prices on a DAF FOB basis.
It is on page 21, our seaborne access, noteworthy that spot sales are generally marketing flexibility and customer made on a Cost and Freight CFR basis.
relationships resulted in higher overall full The higher proportion of spot sales in the year 2009 sales by volume.
We continue first eight months of 2009 therefore Business Review Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 21 stability is returning to the global economy, to build on our strong track record of close as most of them are effectively rerelationships with all our customers.
Total sales to Traditional The Group holds Markets in 2009 were 4.1mt, a decrease of The global iron ore market environment in 29% compared with 2008. exclusive licences to 2009 was affected by low visibility of both demand and price see Pricing below.
a world class iron ore Natural Markets This resulted in a higher proportion of Natural Markets are relatively new sales on the spot market, and these sales resource, uniquely markets for us in regions where we believe were made at lower prices than those positioned close to we have a competitive advantage which under contract.
We expect that the has yet to be exploited.
This segment proportion of sales that will be made existing infrastructure includes Western Europe, Turkey and the under long-term contracts in 2010 will be Middle East.
Turkey has plans to increase and core steelhigher than in 2009, as markets have its steel-making capacity significantly and normalised to some extent and the Group producing markets.
FPMs proximity across the Black Sea is already selling at close to normal levels affords an important mutual advantage to to its portfolio of long-term contract both the Group and iron ore buyers in customers.
We remain committed to the Turkey.
Our long-term supply contract in strategy of maintaining a high level of the Turkey is only a year old, but it was one of Groups sales under long-term contract the best-performing contracts in 2009. and to this end we have despatched trial This segment represents a major target for cargoes to prospective new contract future sales growth.
We are building customers in the second half of 2009. commercial and technical relationships in the Middle East as a base for our future We believe that we have increased our planned sales as we continue to improve market share in 2009 with our contract product quality.
customers in our Traditional Markets as a result of our proximity to these customers Growth Markets and our long-standing relationships with Growth Markets are those which offer to them.
This has been critical in enabling us add new and significant tonnage to maintain output during the year.
Our expansion potential to our customer ability to provide small-parcel just-in-time portfolio.
Currently China is the major deliveries to these customers is an target, although as stated above we have attractive service for those companies that now made progress in opening India as a are engaged in careful inventory new Growth Market.
The Group has six management.
We are well positioned to long-term contracts in place with Chinese continue this trend of substituting our steel mills.
These customers provide a supply for that of our competitors in solid base for future sales growth and Europe in 2010 and we will continue to sell were instrumental in the Groups success aggressively into these markets.
in placing excess volumes from Europe into the Chinese spot market in 2009.
We We shall also continue to focus on have a shorter ocean shipping distance to achieving higher prices through enhanced these markets than competitor iron ores pellet quality and a better understanding of from Brazil, although ocean freight rates our customers requirements of our products.
This is necessary in order to from the Black Sea have been unusually capture the maximum price relative to our high in 2009 relative to other routes as a competitors delivered cost to the customer result of the severe and prolonged on a value to the customer basis.
This resulted in a significant reduction in dry Traditional Markets bulk ocean vessels open for trade in the Our Traditional Markets are those Atlantic but we expect this situation to markets that we have supplied historically normalise.
The Ferrexpo Growth Market and in which we enjoy a competitive region also provides the primary source of advantage based on our location.
These demand for spot market business which include Austria, Ukraine, Czech Republic, has been highly active throughout 2009.
Poland, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria and Russia.
The former CIS countries within the Traditional Markets have been particularly affected by the adverse conditions in global commodities markets, with Ukraine the worst affected, given its steel export focus and relatively high steel production costs.
We believe that continued growth in per capita steel consumption in many of these markets is likely to resume slowly now that some F Fe er rr rex exp po p o pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 00 09 9 www www.. f fe er rr re ex xp po.
c o. co om m 22 Business Review Operating Review continued Benchmark Price movement agreed Logistics between the major iron ore producers and Our logistics strategy is to manage as specific Western European or Asian steel much of the delivery chain to our Our priority is the producers for a given year.
However, customers as possible in order to ensure owing to low demand visibility in 2009, a development of our punctual supply of the contracted quality Benchmark Price settlement was not of product at a competitive cost.
The total resource base while globally agreed as usual in April.
As a scope of our delivery logistics chain result, in order to maintain volumes and includes rail, trans-shipment loading and maintaining flexibility margins, Ferrexpo was exposed to an unloading, barge and ocean vessels.
throughout the unusually high proportion of spot or provisional prices, as were almost all iron In 2009, our focus was on maintaining economic cycle.
ore producers during the year.
This production and ensuring the integrity of affected the 2009 average achieved price.
the logistics chain in order to maximise sales volumes in a capital-constrained No formal global Benchmark Price was environment.
Our 49.9%-owned dry bulk established at all in 2009 as a result of minerals Panamax terminal on the Black CISAs the China Iron and Steel Sea the TIS-Ruda Terminal-Yuzhny has Association failure to recognise price proven an asset critical to our efforts to settlements made between the major iron increase seaborne sales in the face of ore producers and their non-Chinese Traditional Market demand weakness.
Our customers during the summer.
Price access to the TIS-Ruda Terminal-Yuzhny settlements were nonetheless reached has been a vital differentiator between outside China and by early in the second Ferrexpo and its competitors in the region half of the year, these had eventually which have had to rely on congested State gained universal acceptance even with ports for seaborne access.
This was partly as a result of continuing iron ore spot price During the downturn, the Group has strength.
Vale, the largest iron ore pellet followed a strategy of conservative cash producer in the world, settled its price for management.
In 2009, little expenditure pellets with its customers ex-China at a was made on the development of our level 48.3% below the 2008 2009 contract logistics capability.
The expansion of our price.
The improving economic outlook in delivery chain logistics capability in order the third quarter enabled Ferrexpo to to meet current and future growing agree prices with the majority of its customer demands nevertheless remains long-term contract customers at a critical contributor to our long-term substantially this Vale Benchmark Price market shares and margins.
We expect to after adjustments for the impact of freight, resume some capital expenditure in this quality, proximity and logistics.
Specifically, Ferrexpo is coincided with the return to supplying working to reduce ocean vessel shipping pellets largely in terms of our normal costs and volatility to Growth Markets via geographic market mix.
These new longer-term ocean vessel chartering and contract prices apply from the start of the loading of larger vessels up to cape size 150,000 tonnes.
fourth quarter to the end of the first quarter of 2010, when we expect a new Pricing price to be agreed.
We achieved an average DAF FOB price for the pellets we sold in 2009 of US$66.3 Pellet premium per tonne, a decrease of 47% over the The iron ore pellet premium is the price average achieved price for 2008 paid by purchasers to producers of iron US$124.6 per tonne.
The calculation of ore pellets such as Ferrexpo in excess of the average DAF FOB price includes sales the price of iron ore sinter fines, to reflect made on a CFR basis, adjusted for freight.
the fact that pellets have undergone As stated above, high freight rates caused further processing which may create pressure on the average DAF FOB price in improved value in use for the end users.
the third and fourth quarters.
Variations in The Groups pellets are therefore an our achieved price stem from price intermediate product between raw ore and variations of pellets sold into different metallic iron, providing productivity gains geographical segments, as well as the mix in blast furnaces.
Usage of our pellets can between our 62% Fe pellets and our 65% lead to reduced coke consumption in the Fe pellets which attract a premium.
In a steelmaking production process, typical year, most of our export sales are beneficial when this is in tight supply or based on annually negotiated prices relatively highly priced.
The pellet premium contained in supplements to our long-term also reflects other benefits of using pellets, supply contracts.
A proportion of this most notably their advantages in sales tonnage is linked to the international transportation and increased seaborne traded iron ore benchmark price environmental concerns with sinter Business Review Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 23 our key customers because of our notice to counteract any recurring production, particularly for blast furnace proximity to them.
We have made demand weakness in any given region.
operators in the European Union.
significant progress already in increasing We shall continue to cultivate relationships our market share to these customers, and in our Growth Markets and to hold Following the Vale price settlements in our return to supplying our portfolio of available our seaborne market access, mid-2009, the iron ore pellet premium in long-term customers late in 2009 bodes seeking to maximise sales volumes where Europe was 25 US cents per dry metric well for sales in 2010. possible by taking advantage of potential tonne unit dmtu, after reaching a record opportunities for seaborne spot sales high of 86 US cents per dmtu in April Government stimulus packages and while maintaining our strong customer 2008.
Pellets tend to trade at a very quantitative easing are likely to result in relationships in our Traditional and Natural significant premium to iron ore fines only some inflation in 2010, but for Ferrexpo Markets.
Where possible, we will use when the industry is in a state of underthis is likely to be offset to a large degree these relationships to increase our market supply as was the case in the first part of by further operational currency weakness.
share position in the Traditional and 2008.
The efficiency gained through the Economic conditions have reduced costs Natural Markets to capitalise on use of pellets becomes less of a factor of production across the industry in 2009, smaller-lot deliveries to customers.
We when blast furnaces are not running at full as demand has fallen.
This is a partial believe that, for customers throughout capacity, as was the case in many markets reversal of the changes to the cost Central Europe, our products represent through much of 2009.
Nonetheless, the structure of the iron ore industry witnessed an attractive alternative to those of major current level is below the long-term over the past five years as a result of seaborne suppliers due to the lower costs average of approximately 30 US cents per declining availability of direct-charge lump of transporting pellets over a shorter dmtu, and we believe this to be below the ore and the fact that incremental iron ore distance from Ukraine, together with an marginal cost of pelletising for some can only be supplied by increasingly ability to provide many customers with a producers.
As a result, we expect the distant and relatively lower quality ore continuous small-parcel delivery chain premium for our pellets to increase in bodies.
The cost of the marginal tonne and in many instances a bespoke 2010.
This is supported by the fact that is therefore expected to increase slightly logistics solution.
good supply discipline practised by the in 2010. larger pellet producers in 2009 has, in late Corporate social responsibility 2009, resulted in a shortage of pellets in Industry inventory control has been good We are pleased that in 2009, we made some key markets.
An increase in the given the pressures of the economic good progress in our efforts to transform pellet premium is also likely to be downturn and the recovery in demand in the culture at FPM into one of behavioural underpinned by the transport and China was unexpectedly rapid.
There were no fatalities at our environmental benefits of using our pellets.
the build-up of inventories which have operations during the year.
We continue to historically prevented the recovery of work with DuPont Safety Resources as we 2010 Marketing strategy commodity prices once growth conditions strive for further improvements across all Demand in 2010 will depend on the resume, has been avoided.
In 2010, areas of CSR and especially safety.
continued growth of steel output in China, continuing strong demand from China and a sustainable recovery by the steel the slow recovery elsewhere should give The Groups CSR Review can be found on industry in Ukraine and the continuation of support to stronger iron ore prices.
page 32 of this Annual Report.
the slow recovery in developed nations.
We believe that the re-stocking by steel Our sales strategy in 2010 will be an mills following the worst months of the extension of the highly successful flexible crisis is now complete and a fragile strategy we practised in 2009.
We believe recovery is under way, driving a slow return of global steel output to sustainable the worst of the downturn in the global levels.
We remain well placed to continue economy is behind us, but we remain to produce at full capacity and to supply prepared to switch sales volumes between our various markets at short Ferrexpo plc Reserves and Resources The following table sets out the Groups JORC-classified reserves and resources: Reserves || Resources incl.
Reserves Proved and probable Measured and indicated Inferred || || Million Fe grade Million Fe grade Million Fe grade tonnes % tonnes % tonnes %  798 29 1,443 30 1,275 31 Lavrikovskoye 157 32 812 30 174 29 Total Producing Assets 955 30 2,255 30 1,449 31 Yeristovskoye 632 34 765 27 96 17 Belanovskoye 1,627 31 37 30 Galeschinskoye 325 59 29 59 Total Projects 632 34 2,717 33 162 27 Total All Assets 1,587 32 4,972 32 1,611 30
