OPeRATING ANd FINANCIAL RevIeW SIR MOIR LOCKHeAd Chief executives operating review ensuring the safety and security of our passengers and employees is the driving force at the heart of our business and it forms the basis of everything that we do.
2009 marks the 20th anniversary of OveRvIeW FirstGroup.
Twenty years ago Sir Moir Safety Lockhead, then Managing Director We have made great advances in achieving our aim of embedding of Grampian Regional Transport, a rigorous culture of safety throughout the Group.
During the year and his team of Directors completed I am pleased to report that we made further advances in this key an ambitious and groundbreaking employee and management buy-out area and continue to implement industry-leading safety initiatives.
However, this is an area where we constantly strive to find new ways to improve and enhance our processes.
I am pleased to report that during the year Lost Time Injuries reduced by 26%.
I was delighted to receive the Green Cross Safety Award from the National Safety Council in the US in April 2009, in recognition of our commitment to health and safety in the workplace.
Despite the good progress we have made we are never complacent in working towards the goal of finding the safest possible way of conducting our business for our passengers and staff.
Further details of our safety initiatives and achievements during the year can be found on our website at www.
com Results I am delighted to report another year of strong trading across the Group, despite a weaker economic backdrop, with results in line with our expectations.
The results incorporate a full year of the enlarged North American operations compared to a six month contribution last year.
Operating profit rose to 497.5m 2008: 360.1m an increase of 38.2%.
The Group operating margin increased to 8.0% 2008: 7.6%.
We achieved record EBITDA operating profit plus depreciation of 772.2m 2008: 560.8m an increase of 37.7%.
This continued strong performance, together with a focus on cost control and budgetary discipline, has enabled us to continue to deliver our cash generation targets which will be applied to reduce net debt.. FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7 FReSH START CONSISTeNTLY CLeAN ANd FReSH BUSeS NAVISTAR SPOTLIGHT ON Customer service Investment is a key factor in improving service delivery and Delivering our promise to our customers achieving customer service excellence.
Over the last year we have is one of our core values.
We aim to made significant investments in our vehicles, property and the development and training of our employees to improve customer deliver a high standard of customer service.
We collect feedback from our customers through passenger satisfaction surveys, meet the manager sessions and focus groups service and are focused on improving and in our contract businesses through formal review processes.
our performance against our timetable or contract.
INveSTMeNT CONTRACTS INveSTMeNT FOR IMPROved CONTRACT ReTeNTION CUSTOMeR SeRvICe IN NORTH AMeRICA In May 2008 First Student First Student successfully retained over 90% $1.2bn completed one of the largest contracts that came up for bid during the year.
fleet purchase deals in school bus industry history in a potential $1.2bn deal with Navistar Inc.
The agreement 90% will enhance our fleet and our service to our customers over four years.
PeRFORMANCe ON TIMe PeRFORMANCe PUNCTUALITY ANd ReLIABILITY We continue to focus on The Public Performance Measure improving Greyhounds was above 90% on a moving annual operational performance.
average basis at each of our rail In the US On Time franchises at the end of 2008 09.
Performance has improved by more than 8% to nearly 80% and in Canada On Time Performance has remained high at nearly 90%.
8% IMPROveMeNT 90% STAFF FReSH START PUTTING CUSTOMeRS FIRST Fresh Start delivers buses that First Great Westerns Putting are consistently clean and fresh Customers First development and provide the best environment programme is designed to give for our UK Bus customers to operational employees the skills travel in.
The project has received to deliver great customer service.
positive feedback from customers and staff alike.
8 8 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 OpERATING ANd FINANCIAL REvIEW CHIEF ExECUTIvES OpERATING REvIEW CONTINUEd Results NORTH AMERICA Revenue from our Student, Transit and Services businesses was 2,224.1m or $3,739.0m 2008: 1,370.3m or $2,753.2m.
Operating profit increased to 246.1m or $391.8m 2008: 130.7m or $262.6m representing an increase of 49.2% at constant exchange rates.
The results incorporate a full year of the enlarged North American operations compared to only six months contribution last year.
During the year we successfully integrated the contract business operations of our Laidlaw acquisition into FirstGroup America.
I am delighted with the excellent progress made in delivering this The Group is the leading provider of transportation services in considerable task in accordance with our plans and in securing the North America.
First Student is the largest provider of student synergies from the combined operations.
I am pleased to report that transportation with approximately 60,000 yellow school buses our target of $150m per annum run rate was achieved during the operating every day across the US and Canada.
We operate a first half of the year, ahead of our original estimates.
transit contracting and management business and a vehicle fleet maintenance and support services division.
More than In addition to driving out the considerable cost synergies the focus 80% of earnings from our North American business are contract for our North American contract businesses of Student, Transit and backed, providing substantial visibility and stability with no Services has been to ensure consistency of customer service, exposure to passenger demand.
operational excellence and contract retention during the integration process and during this period of consolidation.
Revenue Operating profit 2,224.1m 246.1m First Student We operate approximately 60,000 yellow school buses, providing home to school transport on behalf of school boards and authorities across the US and Canada.
The school bus market in the US and Canada is estimated to be worth approximately $22bn per annum.
With government mandates for schools to provide transportation for students, contracts are typically between three and five years.
This stable business comprises a large number of individual contracts Key highlights which, in previous periods of economic downturn or instability, has Laidlaw acquisition successfully integrated $150m per remained resilient.
I am pleased to report that our focus on customer annum synergy targets achieved early service and operational performance has delivered another year of Student delivered margin improvement to 12.6% and strong retention, with First Student retaining over 90% of contracts contract retention of over 90%, supported by our unique that came up for renewal.
scale and economies Transit margin improvement to 7.6%, new paratransit and During the year US Dollar revenue increased by 41.4% and shuttle bus contract wins operating profit by 57.3% and our continued focus on improving profitability resulted in a strong increase in the operating margin Where we operate to 12.6% 2008: 11.3%.
Seattle Detroit New York Chicago Washington San Francisco Cincinnati Los Angeles Miami First Student First Transit First Services First Canada Find out more www.
com north america FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9 CHIeF exeCUTIveS OPeRATING RevIeW CONTINUed Within First Student, we have reviewed areas for potential cost pleased to secure the first State-wide contract in Rhode Island.
reduction and implemented a restructuring programme that will During the period we also successfully retained a number of deliver further savings across our enlarged school bus business.
contracts in States including Oregon, California and Indiana.
This restructuring allows us to reduce headcount within central functions at First Student while ensuring that our front line operations As we indicated in our half-yearly report 2008, we have experienced remain focused on customer service and delivery.
a marked increase in the number of expressions of interest received from school boards in respect of outsourcing school transportation.
We believe this reflects the current economic climate and pressures on public spending which is leading a number of school boards FIRST STUdeNT CAN deLIveR SIGNIFICANT SAvINGS to tender their transportation or commence dialogue with private operators.
First Student can deliver significant savings to customers TO CUSTOMeRS AS A ReSULT OF OUR SCALe as a result of our scale and expertise and we continue to pursue ANd exPeRTISe ANd We CONTINUe TO PURSUe the opportunities this current recessionary environment presents.
We have a dedicated and experienced team who are actively OPPORTUNITIeS TO INCReASe MARKeT SHARe.
progressing opportunities to increase our share of the market that is currently in-sourced and have established a solid platform from which to develop this pipeline of potential new business.
In our The scale of our operations and the significant cost efficiencies we experience the shift from in-sourced to outsourced can be slow to can achieve have supported our success in the most recent school materialise.
However, we are encouraged by the steady stream of bus bid season.
We are pleased to have won new contracts during new contract awards to operate buses in States including Michigan the bid season to operate school buses on behalf of new customers and California that were previously operated within the public sector.
in States including Kansas, Illinois and Ohio.
In addition, we were First Student is targeting conversion opportunities and has also developed unbundled services to offer specific products to a wider customer base.
We now offer school boards routing software, fleet maintenance and bus leasing support.
First Student also established a network of centres to increase our share of the school bus charter market.
Following the successful integration of Laidlaw International, Inc. we have continued to explore opportunities to deliver synergies from our North American businesses.
During the year we combined the management of First Transit and First Services and integrated several Greyhound central functions into FirstGroup America.
10 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 OPeRATING ANd FINANCIAL RevIeW We continue to create opportunities to expand our services by First Services revenue grew by 4.7% during the year and as increasing the range of products we offer customers.
We were previously indicated in our half-yearly report 2008, operating profit pleased to win new business to operate charter bus services, where was impacted by the loss of a legal dispute and additional costs school buses are hired for charter journeys such as day trips or incurred in respect of a small number of contracts that expired after school activities, including the provision of spectator transport during the period.
to the Senior PGA Open, the US Womens Open Championship and the National Avon Walk for Breast Cancer.
During the period we were pleased to be awarded the contract to become the sole provider of vehicle maintenance to DHL.
This new First Transit and Services contract builds on the strong track record of performance we had First Transit delivered a further year of successful growth with achieved as one provider, among several, who previously US Dollar revenue increased by 31.8% and operating profit by maintained the DHL fleet.
71.1% and continued to improve its operating margin.
A continued focus on customer service led to First Services being I am pleased to report that during the period we continued to win awarded a number of accolades during the year including 26 of the new business and increase our share of the outsourced transit fleets maintained by First Vehicle Services being named among the market with the award of new contracts.
In keeping with our strategy Top 100 Fleets in North America by Government Fleet Magazine.
to grow our presence in the higher margin paratransit and shuttle Our First Vehicle Services locations in Longview, Texas and Claremore, bus businesses we were pleased to win contracts to operate Oklahoma achieved the Blue Seal Award from the National Institute paratransit services in Philadelphia and New Jersey.
In addition, for Automotive Service Excellence.
we were awarded the contract to provide shuttle bus services at the prestigious Princeton University in New Jersey.
Contract retention remained strong at over 90% with a number of contracts renewed in States including Colorado and California.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 CHIeF exeCUTIveS OPeRATING RevIeW CONTINUed Greyhound, which contributes less than 10% of Group operating profit, experienced reduced revenue from the third quarter of the GReYHOUNd year as a result of the marked deterioration in the fast changing US economy.
Revenue from our first full year of ownership of Greyhound increased to 642.4m or $1,114.0m 2008: 280.8m or $565.8m and operating profit rose to 48.5m or $91.7m 2008: 8.8m or $17.7m representing a full 12 months contribution compared to six months in the previous year.
The unique qualities of Greyhound, in particular the highly flexible business model, have enabled us to take swift and decisive action Greyhound is the only national provider of scheduled intercity to mitigate the impact on profitability.
Approximately 60% of the cost coach transportation services in the US and Canada.
Greyhound base is variable which has enabled us to rapidly match the supply provides scheduled passenger services to approximately 3,100 to demand.
We have reduced mileage by 7.6% in the US and in destinations throughout the US and Canada carrying some Canada, where we have to seek regulatory approval prior to network 22 million passengers annually.
changes, we have reduced mileage by approximately 3.5%.
These cost actions have maintained revenue per mile and further Revenue Operating profit reductions are planned as appropriate.
642.4m 48.5m In addition, we have taken a number of actions to reduce operating costs including further restructuring of offices and functions.
We have integrated a number of central functions from our Greyhound offices in Dallas and in Canada into our FirstGroup America headquarters in Cincinnati and have combined some operations in Canada to one location.
As a result of challenging market conditions affecting Greyhound and to ensure the business remains cost Key highlights efficient we have implemented a substantial programme to reduce Impr oved year on year profitability and cash generation headcount by 1,100 by June 2009.
Highly flexible operating model rapid response to changing demand has maintained revenue per mile We have also progressed our plans to decrease indirect costs and to reduce agency commission on ticket sales through rate Where we operate reductions.
We are encouraged by our experience with BoltBus, our low cost, high quality coach operation, where passengers are attracted to our yield managed fares and book their tickets using an online internet reservation system.
In March 2009 BoltBus, operating between its New York hub and three other markets in the North East, celebrated its first anniversary.
The response to BoltBus has been extremely positive with monthly revenues exceeding $1.5m.
Since the start up we have carried over 800,000 customers, achieved high average loadings and have introduced a further ten new and six refurbished vehicles bringing the current BoltBus fleet to 49.
In May 2009 we launched a new route operating seven services per day from New York to Baltimore and are currently developing opportunities to expand BoltBus into other markets this year.
During the year we ordered 140 new vehicles that will be used to replace old Greyhound fleet and provide additional vehicles for BoltBus services.
The new vehicles will enhance operating performance and will also reduce our carbon footprint with improved fuel efficiency.
Greyhound network in the US We are delaying any major capital expenditure programmes while Greyhound network in Canada the economy remains weak and will continue to implement further Affiliated carriers in Mexico actions to ensure that Greyhound is in a position of strength during Find out more this recessionary period.
We remain confident that the business now has a solid base on which to continue to deliver profitable growth www.
ca and strong cash generation.
12 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 OPeRATING ANd FINANCIAL RevIeW Results UK BUS This year our UK Bus division delivered a good trading performance.
Revenue increased by 7.0% to 1,182.0m 2008: 1,104.9m as a result of revenue growth initiatives and increased passenger journeys including concessions.
The increased operating profit and margin is the result of our improvements in service quality and operational performance, more efficient working practices and investment in new vehicles.
Our turnaround strategy has continued to deliver margin The Group is the largest bus operator in the UK with a fleet of improvement at our regional bus operations.
Our UK Bus division nearly 9,000 buses and a market share of approximately 23%.
has significant flexibility to respond quickly to any changing market We carry approximately 3 million passengers every day.
conditions and we are undertaking a comprehensive cost reduction programme to ensure that we remain resilient in this more Revenue Operating profit challenging economic environment.
1,182.0m 134.0m During the year we restructured our operating companies in Bradford, Halifax and Huddersfield, Leeds and York into one company to improve efficiency and streamline the business.
Since the year end we have also merged our Eastern Counties and Essex operating companies.
Safety and customer service Key highlights During the year we completed the rollout of the Smith System Passenger revenues up 7.4% Defensive Driving programme to all of our UK Bus operating Flexible operating model, can quickly match supply to any companies.
In addition, all of our UK Bus drivers will complete the changing demand Certificate of Professional Competence CPC including enhanced safety training and our bespoke customer service training Where we operate programme.
Our You are the difference course, developed in partnership with Bus Users UK, is designed to enhance our UK Bus operations customer service by providing first-hand experience.
We have also introduced a new complaints handling system that captures more accurate and complete data.
I am pleased to report that overall, Aberdeen complaints have reduced during the year.
Investment Edinburgh Glasgow This year through targeted capital expenditure we invested 77m in new vehicles to support passenger growth, reduce our environmental impact and develop partnership opportunities in our operating companies in Aberdeen, Bradford, Bristol, Eastern Counties, Glasgow, Hampshire and Dorset, Leeds, Manchester, York Leeds South Yorkshire and York.
We also invested 28m in new buses Manchester Bradford to support contract wins in London.
Sheffield Stoke-on-Trent Norwich Our investment in new vehicles and improved maintenance and Birmingham Leicester Worcester engineering performance has reduced lost mileage and, together Ipswich Northampton Swansea with our continued focus on service delivery, has led to increased London Chelmsford Cardiff Bristol punctuality and reliability.
Slough Southampton Portsmouth Partnerships Plymouth We believe working with local authorities through voluntary quality partnerships is the most effective way to deliver punctual and reliable bus services and increase passenger numbers.
Successful Find out more partnerships will lead to a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by www.
com ukbus reducing congestion and car use in our towns and cities.
This year we have seen an increase in passenger journeys in many of our operating companies, despite the challenging economic environment.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 CHIeF exeCUTIveS OPeRATING RevIeW CONTINUed We published our second Route Development Plan RDP in Greater corridor and Park & Ride services in Doncaster.
We continue to Glasgow during the year with a new leisure route to the coast at invest in our people and run training courses in partnership with Largs, an enhanced service between the city and Glasgow Airport South Yorkshire Passenger Transport Executive SYPTE to improve and a new intercity overnight coach service between Glasgow and the skills of our staff including the highly successful Ambassador London.
In addition we enhanced our local networks in Govan, Training programme.
Over the initial two years of the Sheffield Bus Kirkintilloch and Lanarkshire and completed a major initiative to Agreement, our voluntary quality partnership with Sheffield City upgrade and rebrand the commuter coach service between Council and SYPTE, we have fulfilled our commitment to invest in Motherwell and Glasgow.
Our close working relationship with new vehicles and improve driver training.
We want to work together Glasgow City Council and Strathclyde Partnership for Transport has on an Agreement that continues to meet the objectives and purpose delivered an increase in passenger numbers and better punctuality of the partnership.
and reliability, despite rising traffic congestion, for the third year in a row.
In April 2009 we submitted a planning application to Glasgow City Council for a major new bus depot and company headquarters We ARe WORKING WITH LOCAL AUTHORITIeS TO for our Glasgow business.
If approved, our investment of more than 25m will replace our existing Larkfield site with a new development deLIveR PUNCTUAL ANd ReLIABLe BUS SeRvICeS at Gushetfaulds to provide larger and more efficient, modern ANd TO INCReASe PASSeNGeR NUMBeRS.
facilities and enable us to maintain, improve and expand our operations in the Glasgow area.
We introduced 122 double deckers on our high frequency In May 2008 the Department for Transport DfT announced 42m Overground routes between Bolton and Oldham and Manchester to to fund the next stage of the Greater Bristol Bus Network.
The provide additional capacity, reduce congestion and carbon dioxide programme will fund new priority measures such as bus lanes and emissions.
We were disappointed with the result of the referendum intelligent traffic signals to minimise delays and improve journey on the Transport Innovation Fund in December.
We believe this times on ten new route corridors and also introduce Real Time was a great opportunity to improve Manchesters transport system Passenger Information.
We are investing 20m in new vehicles to help drive economic development in Manchester and the with easy access low floors, lower emissions and improved comfort surrounding region.
We will continue to work in partnership with and cleanliness.
The Greater Bristol Bus Network will build on the Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive GMPTE success of the two existing Showcase routes in improving and the local authorities in Greater Manchester to deliver excellent punctuality and reliability and growing passenger numbers.
service quality and improved reliability for our customers.
In partnership with GMPTE and another operator we are exploring We are looking forward to the phased introduction of the ftrmetro the possibility of introducing new orbital bus routes to serve project in Swansea throughout the summer.
investment with the City and County of Swansea is aimed at improving the public transport network in the city by providing a We are the leading operator on the first Statutory Quality Partnership frequent turn up and go service with improved and reliable journey Scheme in North Sheffield.
80% of our fleet across South Yorkshire times ensured through vehicles running on segregated fast-track is now low floor following our investment across the region with bus lanes wherever possible and with effective priority over other 58 new buses in Sheffield and new vehicles to operate the A638 traffic elsewhere.
Our aim is to attract and retain the best people in the industry.
This year driver turnover in our UK Bus division has reduced to less than 20%.
20% 100m 14 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 OPeRATING ANd FINANCIAL RevIeW We have been working together with Hampshire County Council London and other major contracts and Transport for South Hampshire on the initial planning of the We are pleased with new contract wins in London that reflect our South East Hampshire Bus Rapid Transit scheme.
In March ongoing efforts to improve operational performance and increase 2009 the Government announced 20m from the Community efficiencies.
We were pleased to take over the 195 route from another Infrastructure Fund to support the first phase of the scheme which operator on a short term contract with Transport for London TfL.
We will provide a new, dedicated route for reliable and frequent bus continue to focus on the quality of our operations and are pleased travel between Gosport and Fareham, reduce congestion and traffic with our performance in TfLs revised Quality Incentive Contracts.
delays and improve access to education and health services, local employment and housing areas, local shopping centres and other In partnership with our staff and their representatives we are trialling important locations.
the GreenRoad system at our Northumberland Park depot.
The system evaluates a drivers performance against a range of safety, Interurban services fuel efficiency and environmental objectives and provides results In August 2008, in partnership with BAA, we upgraded our X30 directly to the driver.
If the trial is successful, we plan to roll out the Aircoach service from Southend to Stansted Airport.
The introduction system to all of our operations.
of five new high specification coaches with leather reclining seats, free WiFi internet access, extra luggage space and leg room, From the end of March 2008 to the beginning of April 2009 we wheelchair accessibility and on-board up to date travel information started the new contracts to operate the Chester, Doncaster, added capacity to a popular and fast growing route.
In May 2009 we Ipswich, Swansea and York Park & Ride services and, with our launched our new X40 Aircoach service from Basildon to Stansted local authority partners, supported the relaunched schemes with Airport, our fourth route from Essex to the UKs third busiest airport.
substantial investment in new vehicles.
In October 2008 17 new double decker buses were introduced Working with Government to the flagship Excel X1 route from Lowestoft to Peterborough as The Local Transport Act introduced new policies in several important part of our Joint Investment Plan with Norfolk County Council and areas that could potentially affect our relationships with local Norwich City Council.
The route has grown 15% year on year.
The Act gives local authorities the power to intervene in Overall, the Joint Investment Plan will deliver a combined investment local bus markets and to propose new governance arrangements of 27m over the next few years.
to support more coherent planning and delivery of local transport.
Passenger Focus, the statutory rail consumer watchdog, will also In March 2009 we introduced new coaches on the X11 Lanarkshire represent the interests of bus passengers from spring 2010.
We look Express service between Newmains and Glasgow as part of a forward to working with Passenger Focus this year on its research of package of service improvements including more peak hour bus and coach passenger needs and priorities.
journeys to and from Glasgow as well as the introduction of a new return journey from Cleland and Coltness.
In September 2008 the Yellow School Bus Commission, chaired by the Rt.
David Blunkett MP, published its report into the issue In April 2009 we introduced a new half hourly limited stop, express of home to school transport.
We welcomed the Commissions bus service between Leeds and York.
recommendations to reduce congestion caused by cars on the school run and bring about an overall increase in the number of children walking, cycling and taking the bus to school.
During the year our UK Bus division has invested over 100m in new, environmentally friendly vehicles to improve service quality and to support new contracts across the UK.
20% 100m FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 SPOTLIGHT ON Partnerships Across the Group we work with our stakeholders including Our partnership with Save the Children central and local government, suppliers and other companies to has raised over 1m in cash donations, deliver safe, reliable and high quality services to our customers.
Our aim is to be easy to do business with and it is only by fundraised monies and gifts in kind.
working in partnership that we will be able to deliver our promise to our customers.
A NeW KINd OF BUS SeRvICe IMPROvING GLASGOWS Greyhound has worked with affiliates to create BoltBus and NeOn, two new BUS NeTWORK high quality, low cost coach services with WiFi, power points and extra The Route Development Plan is key leg room.
Together we are attracting new customers on routes between to the success of our relationship with Baltimore, Boston, Philadelphia, Toronto, Washington and New York.
Glasgow City Council and Strathclyde Partnership for Transport.
The plan resulted in new routes, more low floor buses with increased capacity and improved punctuality and reliability.
This year passenger numbers 4% ATTRACTING increased by over 4%.
INCReASe IN PASSeNGeR NUMBeRS NeW CUSTOMeRS WIFI & POWeR POINTS INTeRNeT BOOKING PARTNeRSHIP WITH HIGH qUALITY, SAve THe CHILdReN LOW COST Our partnership with Save the Children has raised over 1m in cash donations, fundraised exTRA LeG ROOM monies and gifts in kind and raised awareness of the charitys mission to eradicate child poverty both in the UK and abroad.
FRANCHISe exTeNSION FOR MINIMISING OUR USING NeW LeGISLATIve FIRST CAPITAL CONNeCT eNvIRONMeNTAL IMPACT TOOLS TO deLIveR BeTTeR The Department for Transport Our Small Change, Big Difference BUS SeRvICeS has extended our First Capital campaign aims to reduce the We are working with local authorities Connect franchise until the end of impact we have on the environment.
across the country to use new 2012.
This demonstrates that we We are working in partnership with powers in the Local Transport Act have continued to deliver service our supply chain to improve the fuel to deliver voluntary partnership improvements and, working in efficiency of our vehicles, explore agreements.
We are committed partnership with Network Rail, alternative fuel technologies and to working with our partners in achieve our performance targets increase our recycling.
government to achieve our shared since the franchise began.
objectives of tackling congestion and improving the quality of local bus services.
TACKLING THe BOTTLeNeCK AT ReAdING 425M PROGRAMME The track and signalling at Reading limits the number of train services on TO INCREASE CAPACITY the Great Western Main Line and affects punctuality and reliability for our customers.
First Great Western is working in partnership with the Department for Transport, Network Rail and Reading Borough Council to deliver the READING Governments 425m programme to increase capacity at the station and across the network.
15m passengers a year OXFORD 425M PROGRAMME TO INCREASE CAPACITY LONDON 15m passengers a year READING over 1m OPeRATING ANd FINANCIAL RevIeW Results UK RAIL Our UK Rail division continues to deliver good revenue growth, albeit at a slower rate than last year due to the challenging economic environment.
The impact of the weakening economy is reflected across the UK rail industry.
The unique position of our rail franchises in relation to revenue support and share mechanisms will considerably mitigate the impact of the recession on our rail revenues.
First Great Western has received revenue support at the 80% level from the DfT since 1 April 2008 and First Capital Connect became eligible for revenue support at a similar level on 1 April 2009.
The UK Rail division operates passenger and freight services in the UK.
We have a strong, balanced portfolio of intercity, regional Revenue in the Groups rail division increased by 9.5% to 2,121.5m and commuter franchises.
Passenger rail franchises consist of 2008: 1,937.0m.
Operating profit was 94.2m 2008: 120.0m First Capital Connect, First Great Western, First ScotRail and reflecting the impact of the weakening economy on our rail First TransPennine express.
We also operate First Hull Trains, a operations and in particular on our franchises serving London.
non-franchised open access intercity passenger train operator, Despite the high fixed cost nature of the rail industry we are and we provide rail freight services through First GBRf.
We committed to a substantial cost reduction programme to ensure are the UKs largest rail operator, carrying some 285 million that we remain in a position to respond to economic conditions passengers per annum.
We have already implemented significant cost efficiency actions this year, including a headcount reduction Revenue Operating profit programme, and will continue to focus on our addressable cost 2,121.5m 94.2m base in the year ahead.
We are the only operator to run every type of overground rail service in the UK, from high speed intercity trains and overnight sleepers to local branch lines, regional and commuter services and open access, light rail and freight operations.
We continue to deliver improvements in customer service, performance and increased capacity.
In partnership with the DfT, Transport Scotland, Network Key highlights Rail and other organisations, we are at the forefront of some of the Passenger revenues up 7.7% largest long term improvements to the rail network in the UK.
Continued revenue growth, albeit at a slower rate, with significant downside protection through revenue support First Great Western We are pleased with First Great Westerns improved performance Where we operate and customer service but we believe there is more to do and we remain committed to achieving further progress.
As a result of our investment and the changes we made last year First Great Westerns First Capital Connect Public Performance Measure PPM has improved from just over First Great Western 83% at the start of the year to over 90% at the year end on a Moving First Hull Trains First ScotRail Annual Average MAA basis.
This represents a significant improvement First TransPennine Express and First Great Western has improved its position from the bottom First GBRf operates rail freight services throughout the UK of the national rail industry league table to be in line with the industry average.
First Great Westerns punctuality and reliability levels are ahead of the targets we agreed with the DfT in February 2008 as part of an action plan to improve performance.
80% of First Great Western customers interviewed for the autumn 2008 National Passenger Survey NPS thought the overall service was either good or satisfactory.
This is a seven point improvement on First Great Westerns NPS scores in spring 2008 and autumn 2007.
Over the next two years all of our first line teams will go through our 4m Putting Customers First development programme that was designed to further increase customer satisfaction levels.
We continue to invest in our fleet to improve our customers experience of travelling with First Great Western.
The refresh of our Find out more West Country regional train fleet is almost complete.
com uktrain provides a more comfortable and cleaner on-board environment for passengers and includes a range of technical improvements to FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 CHIeF exeCUTIveS OPeRATING RevIeW CONTINUed make the trains more reliable.
We recently completed the We are working closely with Network Rail on plans to improve the development of our St Philips Marsh depot in Bristol to support North Cotswolds Line.
This summer Network Rail intends to complete the maintenance and servicing of the West Country regional fleet.
the first phase of engineering works in preparation for the restoration During the year we also invested 2m to refresh the Sleeper fleet of a two-track railway between Charlbury and Evesham during 2010. which runs between London Paddington and Penzance and leased This will ease congestion on the line, help improve punctuality and five Class 150 units from Arriva Trains Wales to strengthen capacity could also lead to an increase in the number of train services and on the busy Cardiff-Portsmouth services.
Passengers on branch a reduction in journey times.
lines in Devon have also benefited from capacity increases, especially in the Exeter area.
First Great Western is also working with the DfT, Network Rail and Reading Borough Council on the 425m Reading remodelling We have continued to deliver better facilities for our customers.
The current track layout and signalling severely limits the Maidenhead station received major improvements and an number of services that can travel through the station and the extension to the platform allowing High Speed Trains to stop Government funded programme will tackle this bottleneck.
We have also created a new waiting investment will benefit passengers across the First Great Western room at Swindon station and upgraded facilities at Newbury and network by increasing capacity and improving reliability.
Stations on the Heart of Wessex route have seen substantial improvements including repainting, new shelters and First Capital Connect waiting rooms.
In addition, car parks at Didcot Parkway, Pewsey, In February 2009 the DfT confirmed that our First Capital Connect Stroud and Twyford stations have been refurbished.
Our franchise franchise would be extended until the end of 2012 as a result of commitment to improve safety and security at our stations by successfully achieving our performance targets during the first three achieving Secure Station status has been met with 171 stations years of operation.
This is a great achievement and demonstrates accredited by the end of March 2009. that we have continued to deliver service improvements and improve our performance since the franchise began.
In January First Great Western continues to work in partnership with Network 2009 First Capital Connect achieved the best ever operational Rail to address the challenges posed by the ageing infrastructure on performance on the Thameslink and Great Northern routes, with the Western route.
We are pleased that the 7m joint investment by PPM MAA above 92%.
First Great Western and Network Rail to upgrade the majority of the Reading to London Paddington relief line to 90mph was completed In March 2009 First Capital Connect successfully delivered a new during the year.
The upgrade has increased capacity and improved timetable on the Thameslink route.
The timetable change created journey times for passengers in the Thames Valley and on longer new cross-London routes between First Capital Connect stations distance high speed services.
north of London and Southeastern destinations in Kent and south east London, almost doubled the number of peak hour trains across London and added over 2,500 more peak hour seats.
Passenger numbers at First ScotRail have increased by some 3% this year and more than 20% since the start of the franchise in October 2004.
This is due to improved operational performance and customer service and investment from Transport Scotland in new trains, additional services and reopening lines.
18 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 OPeRATING ANd FINANCIAL RevIeW The new timetable marks the first milestone in the Government This year First Capital Connect has invested 10.5m in improvement funded 5.5bn Thameslink Programme to increase capacity for work at our stations.
This includes the delivery of accessibility passengers travelling to and through London by providing more improvements across over 70 stations, including two new bus rail frequent, new 12 carriage trains and delivering new or improved interchange schemes at Hitchin and Potters Bar stations, as part stations at Farringdon, Blackfriars and London Bridge by 2015. of the DfTs Access for All initiative.
This year we introduced As a result of the Thameslink Programme the Farringdon-Moorgate automatic ticket gates at three further stations and have now branch line was permanently closed to passengers and there delivered 15 new gateline schemes since the start of our franchise will be significant disruption for customers until the Programme is in April 2006.
We also completed the installation of 190 new CCTV completed.
However, we successfully raised customer awareness cameras, 69 Help Points and 56 additional Customer Information ahead of the timetable changes through a new communication System screens and replaced 96 older screens with Enhanced campaign and our initiatives to manage the potential for Display Screens at 16 Thameslink route stations.
The screens offer overcrowding at Blackfriars and Farringdon stations, including live journey information, London Underground updates and news additional customer service assistants, has helped to mitigate on service alterations during disruption.
the negative aspects of this major change.
We were delighted to win the London Team of the Year at the In May 2009 we will implement the recommendations of the National Rail Awards 2008 for our work with British Transport Police Cambridge and Peterborough Capacity Study to address to reduce crime and anti-social behaviour on our network.
As part overcrowding on the Great Northern route.
Network Rail has of our Keeping you safe with us campaign First Capital Connect successfully completed work to lengthen platforms and upgrade has invested in five British Transport Police officers and 24 Police the power supply to enable First Capital Connect to introduce five Community Support Officers to patrol our network.
A new CCTV additional trains and a new timetable which will deliver over 2,500 Control Centre operated by our staff and a British Transport Police seats in the morning peak and over 3,000 seats in the evening peak.
officer now monitors our stations and car parks 24 hours a day.
First Capital Connect continues to invest in the future success of the First ScotRail franchise.
This year we invested 2.2m in extending our Cauldwell In April 2008 the Scottish Government announced its decision to Walk depot in Bedford and 1.2m in a new Performance and extend our successful First ScotRail franchise for a further three Training Academy and Simulator Centre at our Hornsey depot that years to November 2014.
We were pleased that First ScotRail will be used to teach the new drivers required for the Thameslink scored a customer satisfaction rating of 90% in the National Programme and help to support our team of 700 drivers.
This is our best ever NPS score, up six opened a new training centre in Kentish Town to deliver induction, percentage points year on year.
We continue our efforts to improve customer service and revenue protection training to new recruits.
customer service and investing in our people is a key part of our The centre will also offer development programmes and safety commitment.
We were delighted to achieve Investor in People training to all of First Capital Connects employees.
We also opened new Rail Learning Centres at Dumfries, Ayr, Yoker and Inverness.
First Capital Connect introduced a new timetable in March to add new capacity on peak services through London.
The changes form a key part of the 5.5bn Government funded Thameslink Programme to reduce overcrowding on the Bedford to Brighton commuter route.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 CHIeF exeCUTIveS OPeRATING RevIeW CONTINUed During the year First ScotRail achieved a record single period PPM Service enhancements will continue in the May 2009 timetable with of 94.2%.
We continue to improve our reliability and our maintenance further improvements between Edinburgh and Aberdeen via Fife.
depots have made strong progress this year.
Our Haymarket depot In addition, there will be a new, direct morning commuter service has recorded a 34% reduction in delay minutes for the Class 170 from Alloa to Edinburgh and an evening peak return.
between Glasgow Central and Ardrossan Town are being extended to Ardrossan Harbour to provide more robust sailing connections.
On 17 May 2009 Laurencekirk station will open, the first new station in the north east of Scotland for almost 25 years.
We CONTINUe TO deLIveR IMPROveMeNTS IN CUSTOMeR SeRvICe, OPeRATIONAL We continue to invest in improving passenger facilities at our stations.
Every First ScotRail controlled station now has a Help PeRFORMANCe ANd INCReASed CAPACITY.
Point and during the year we opened a new First Class lounge at Aberdeen station and completed car park extensions for Transport Scotland at Cupar, Stonehaven and Musselburgh stations.
Passenger growth continues at First ScotRail with additional morning and evening peak express services between Edinburgh and We are delighted that First ScotRails success has been recognised Glasgow and over 400,000 passenger journeys on the new Stirlingwith a host of awards including Passenger Operator of the Year and Alloa service.
The line was opened on 19 May 2008 with an hourly Outstanding Personal Contribution at the National Rail Awards and service linking Alloa to Glasgow reconnecting Clackmannanshire to Passenger Operator of the Year and Transport Employee of the Year the passenger rail network for the first time in 40 years.
at the Scottish Transport Awards.
First ScotRail introduced a new timetable in December 2008 with the most comprehensive changes to services in a decade.
We doubled the frequency of services linking Edinburgh with both Perth and Dundee, reduced journey times and overcrowding on the EdinburghAberdeen route and introduced an hourly Aberdeen-Inverurie service.
For the first time ever, both Kyle of Lochalsh and Wick now have four trains a day Monday to Saturday, all year round, to and from Inverness.
First TransPennine Express celebrated its fifth anniversary in February.
Since the franchise started the Company has seen a rise in passenger numbers from 13.5 million in 2004 05 to 22.4 million in 2008 09.
5 20 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 FGW PPM MAA 90% PPM 90% OPeRATING ANd FINANCIAL RevIeW First TransPennine express First GBRf Our First TransPennine Express franchise celebrated its fifth We were delighted that First GBRf won the Freight Achievement anniversary in February.
We continue to deliver passenger growth of the Year award at the National Rail Awards for its performance and this year carried over 22 million passengers on our network.
First GBRf achieved a five year extension to its contract with British Gypsum for the movement of desulphogypsum Performance dipped towards the end of 2008 with delays due from West Burton power station in July 2008 and in October 2008 to line side cable theft, infrastructure failures in poor weather and won new contracts with Bombardier and Wabtec.
In April 2009 First unexpectedly high levels of driver sickness.
We are working with GBRf signed a new five year contract with container liner MSC to Network Rail to identify problem areas and to restore the previous increase our services from the Port of Felixstowe to five per day.
trend of improving punctuality and reliability.
In April 2009 we were delighted to renew our contract to operate and manage the Whitemoor infrastructure terminal in Cambridgeshire, Our new timetable in December 2008 introduced additional services for a further two year term, on behalf of Network Rail.
In addition a between Manchester Airport and Edinburgh, earlier morning trains four year haulage contract to operate infrastructure maintenance from Manchester to Edinburgh and Glasgow and a new early trains for Network Rail in Cambridgeshire, Hampshire and Kent morning service from Edinburgh to Manchester.
We also cut journey was also secured.
The timetable changes also improved service frequencies on Sundays between Newcastle and Manchester Airport First Hull Trains and between Manchester and York.
First Hull Trains continues to achieve passenger growth and carried more than 700,000 passengers in a year for the first time.
In May In January 2009 the Secretary of State for Transport, the 2008 we added an additional Sunday service from Hull to London Rt.
Geoff Hoon MP, officially opened the new third platform Kings Cross and during the year replaced our fleet of Class 222 at Manchester Airport.
Network Rail, GMPTE and the Northern Pioneer trains with Class 180 Adelante trains to deliver more than Way funded the 15m project to deliver additional capacity for 50% additional capacity for our customers.
customers arriving at the airport and to ease pressure on Manchester Piccadilly Station.
We were very pleased that in February 2009 the Office of Rail Regulation approved the continuation of our access rights for We are working with the DfT on the introduction of additional seven weekday and five weekend services each way between carriages to the First TransPennine Express network as part of the Hull and London Kings Cross until December 2016.
First Great Western achieved over 90% PPM, the measure of punctuality and reliability, over the year.
This is a significant improvement in operational performance.
5 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 FGW PPM MAA 90% PPM 90% 51st SAFE DRIVING SPOTLIGHT ON Our people Our people are the key to delivering on our core values of safety Our employees are vital to the success and customer service.
We are committed to recruiting and retaining of our business and are at the centre the best people in the industry and to enabling our employees to reach their full potential through industry leading learning and of everything we do at FirstGroup.
Our 136,000 employees across the UK, North America and Europe help to ensure that some 8 million people 136,000 get to their destination every day.
INveSTING IN PeOPLe SUPPORTING SKILLS FOR LIFe IMPROvING BUS dRIveR SKILLS We actively support the UK Governments Skills for Life agenda.
This year The new Certificate of Professional we opened our 51st Learning and Development centre at Croydon Tramlink Competence is designed to Safety offering learning opportunities for our staff.
enhance the skills of bus drivers in the UK.
All of our UK Bus drivers Customer will receive training on safety and service customer service.
FIRSTGROUP AMeRICAS PeOPLe STRATeGY We aim to be the employer of choice in the North American transportation industry.
We have used the results of our first employee survey to enhance our people strategy and to develop our rewards and recognition programmes.
SeTTING STANdARdS ReCOGNITION COMMITTed TO SAFeR dRIvING ReCOGNISING GReAT SeRvICe The Smith System of Defensive Driving contributed to a reduction in Our UK Bus customers and staff accidents in our First Student business.
The programme focuses on can nominate our employees the five keys of safe driving and has now been rolled out across our as Superstars.
Each of our Train UK Bus division.
Operating Companies recognise staff who go the extra mile in delivering eMPLOYee excellent customer service.
SUPeR STAR INveSTOR IN PeOPLe This year First ScotRail achieved Investor in People accreditation.
Each of our Train Operating Companies is working towards this standard which recognises business improvement through people.
OPeRATING ANd FINANCIAL RevIeW As the leading transport operator in the UK and North America we CSR understand that public transport keeps the economy moving, brings communities together and makes a massive contribution to reducing societys impact on the environment.
This year our customers completed over one billion bus journeys and over 285 million rail journeys in the UK.
In North America we transported four million children to school every day, operated transit and services contracts for our customers in the public sector and carried some 22 million passengers on our Greyhound intercity coach network.
Our services provide opportunities for people to travel to workplaces, to schools, colleges and universities, to utilise essential public services and Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is fundamental to our for leisure.
The transport connections we provide are vital to local business and our objective of sustainable growth.
We aim to communities and to the economy.
We are committed to doing what provide transport services that are safe, reliable, customer we can to increase the use of public transport and to tackle the focused, innovative and sustainable.
social and economic costs of congestion and climate change.
Over the last ten years we have expanded our non-financial reporting as part of our strategy to engage with shareholders We published our environment statement in 1998 to provide an and other stakeholders on the non-financial performance of overview of our commitment to environmental management and our Company.
we published our first environmental report in 1999.
Over the last ten years we have expanded our non-financial reporting as part of Our full CSR Report is available on our website at our strategy to engage with shareholders and other stakeholders www.
com and we also publish a summary of our on the non-financial performance of our Company.
Our full CSR objectives, activities and how we have performed against Report is available on our website at www.
also publish a summary of our objectives, activities and how we have performed against our targets.
Key CSR areas Minimising our environmental impact Safety and customer service are our core values.
Through Injury valuing our employees Prevention, our industry leading safety initiative, we continue to delivering our customer service promise identify and implement measures to provide a safe and reliable high Our role in the community quality transport environment for our employees and our customers.
We are committed to a targeted reduction in workplace accidents and this year achieved a 26% reduction in Lost Time Injuries across the Group.
We have a key role to play in reducing the environmental impact of travel and we are committed to reducing our own contribution.
All but one of our UK Bus and Rail division companies has achieved ISO14001 accreditation for environmental management systems.
In May 2008 our operations in the UK were accredited under the Energy Efficiency Accreditation Scheme.
This leading independent emission reduction award scheme recognises organisations that can demonstrate energy savings through management commitment and investment in energy efficiency measures.
We are the first transport company to complete the accreditation since the scheme was extended to include transport emissions.
This year we have established new arrangements in North America to monitor energy and water consumption at all of our properties.
This will allow us to Find out more report baseline data for the first time.
We have also negotiated total www.
com corporate csr waste management contracts in both our UK Rail and North America divisions and can now monitor waste arising and recycling rates across the Group.
We are updating our climate change strategy to reflect the work we have undertaken since its launch two years ago.
Full details of our climate change strategy including our targets for reduction of emissions can be found on our website at www.
com Our employees are central to delivering our core values of safety and customer service.
We aim to be the employer of choice in the transport industry and we are committed to building a workforce that is highly motivated, customer focused and proud to work for us.
This has been a challenging year for some of our employees as we FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 CHIeF exeCUTIveS OPeRATING RevIeW CONTINUed reshape our business to reflect changing patterns of demand and We are committed to improving the vocational skills of our strive for greater efficiency and cost effectiveness across the Group.
employees with particular emphasis on safety and customer service However, employee turnover has reduced during the year and, in and to improving the availability of learning and development particular, driver turnover at our UK Bus division has reduced from opportunities.
We continue to support the UK Governments Skills 31% in 2004 05 to less than 20% this year.
We are committed to delivering our promise to our customers to meeting our timetable in UK Bus, UK Rail and Greyhound and We HAve A KeY ROLe TO PLAY IN RedUCING THe to fulfilling our commitments in our contracted business in North America.
We believe that delivering services that are safe, punctual eNvIRONMeNTAL IMPACT OF TRAveL ANd We ARe and reliable will attract more customers to public transport.
We COMMITTed TO RedUCING OUR OWN CONTRIBUTION.
continue to make targeted investment to improve our UK Bus fleet introducing new vehicles to increase capacity on busy routes and improve service quality and performance.
Our investment in new We have an active programme of employee engagement and buses is also improving accessibility by increasing the number this year completed employee surveys in each of our operating of low floor vehicles in our fleet.
The number of complaints we divisions.
The results have been analysed at Group and operating receive from our customers is reducing.
In UK Rail we are investing company or site level and have informed our employee programmes in refreshing our rolling stock and, where possible, adding new with action plans to address lower scores.
In our UK Rail division, services to meet high levels of demand particularly in the peak overall employee satisfaction has either improved or remained periods.
We are pleased with the improvement of First Capital constant at each of our Train Operating Companies.
We were Connect, First Great Western and First ScotRail in the National disappointed with the low response to the survey in our UK Bus Passenger Survey.
We continue to work with Network Rail to improve division but pleased with the high scores for our commitment to the punctuality and reliability of our services and, at the year end, safety and learning and development.
We conducted some focus each of our franchised Train Operating Companies recorded Public groups to gain a better understanding of the lower response rate Performance Measure scores of over 90% on a moving annual and to obtain feedback on addressing this.
The survey results average basis.
were communicated to all Managing Directors and we developed employee posters, specific to each operating company, detailing In our North American contracted business there are different survey results and management action plans.
We were pleased customer satisfaction measures but ultimately we believe that with the response rate in North America and, overall, employee contract retention and our ability to win new contracts are key engagement scores were comparable with transport industry performance indicators.
We are pleased to continue our record of benchmarks.
The main themes from the results were for improved strong contract retention of over 90% in First Student.
In addition two-way communication, local management training and First Transit and First Services also achieved excellent retention development of FirstGroup Americas rewards programme.
Injury Prevention, our industry leading safety programme, was introduced across the Group in 2007.
This year our Lost Time Injury rate reduced by 26%.
down 26% 24 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 OPeRATING ANd FINANCIAL RevIeW Our role in the communities where we operate varies as we provide 50% of Group revenues, we have clear visibility of revenues despite bus and rail services, we employ large numbers of people, we the challenging and fast changing economic conditions.
In those buy from suppliers and we interact with our neighbours.
We are areas of the business that are dependent on passenger revenue we committed to playing a key part in our local communities but have already taken action to implement a significant programme to sometimes we face conflicting demands from our stakeholders, reduce costs, match supply to demand and ensure that the Group particularly on issues around accessibility, affordability and the has a robust and efficient base on which to continue to deliver long environmental impact of our operations.
We have continued our partnership with Save the Children in the UK During the year we made excellent progress in implementing our and have now established a similar relationship with the Childrens refinancing strategy to reduce reliance on bank debt and extend Miracle Network in North America.
Our partnership with Save the the maturity profile of the Groups debt and I am pleased to report Children has raised more than 1m in cash donations, fundraised we have achieved financing through to 2012.
The actions we have monies and gifts in kind contributions.
We have also extended our taken will ensure that the Group is well placed to deliver its plans for First Football initiative to ten football clubs across the South West.
cash generation and to reduce net debt.
All of our charitable donations are managed through our Charity and Sponsorship Committees in the UK and North America.
The Looking ahead, no business can regard itself as completely immune Committees are made up of employees and help to ensure that from the global economic downturn and across the sector there will available funds are distributed in a fair and consistent way.
However, our diverse mix of businesses, together with the management actions we have already started to We are committed to developing a leadership position in relation to implement, will stand the Group in good stead to continue to build CSR and to sustainability issues more generally.
In September 2008 on its market leading position and will ensure that, not only are we we established an External CSR Advisory Group to support our work well placed to withstand the economic headwinds, but to continue and to provide an external perspective on our current CSR activities to deliver a strong operating and trading performance.
While it is and where we are heading in the future.
still early in the new financial year, overall the Group has continued to trade well and broadly in line with our expectations.
GROUP OUTLOOK The continued strength and resilience of the Group is the result of our strategy to build a balanced portfolio of operations.
The Group continues to benefit from a diverse revenue stream which is balanced between contract-backed and passenger revenues.
It is this diversity that underpins the strength and resilience of the Group and mitigates the impact of an uncertain economic environment.
Sir Moir Lockhead Within our large contract-backed businesses, which account for Chief executive 13 May 2009 This year FirstGroup America announced a corporate partnership with the Childrens Miracle Network: a leading charity that raises money for 170 childrens hospitals in the US and Canada.
down 26% FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25
