Business Review OPERATIONS REVIEW Heritages success in monetising assets stems from seeing an opportunity at an early stage and drawing on its knowledge and skills both technical and managerial.
The Company looked favourably at the balance of risk and reward in uganda in 1997 and was the first company to explore for and operate Ugandan oil and gas interests in almost sixty years.
After establishing the potential for oil, the Company had to establish a work programme and deliver results.
Why did Heritage consider Uganda to How did the work programme develop?
Several geological elements are necessary Seismic data is used to probe the structure Heritage went to Uganda because of the for oil and gas to accumulate in sufficient of the subsurface.
This is done by generating potential for exploration elephants which quantities to justify commercial production.
sound waves at the surface which are could transform the Company and the These elements include a source rock to reflected back from the different rock layers results have been very successful.
In Block generate the oil or gas, a porous reservoir in the sub-surface and are detected using 3A and Block 1 Heritage has drilled six wells rock to store the oil in and a trap to stop it geophones.
This data is then converted into and all have encountered hydrocarbons.
seismic lines which will be interpreted by Kingfisher, in Block 3A, was the first geophysicists.
discovery in 2007, where three wells were The Heritage technical team were first drilled and two tested at over 12,000 bopd.
attracted to the Albert Basin because Early seismic surveys confirmed at least five surface geology maps indicated a large kilometres of sediment in the basin and a A five month drilling programme in Block 1 sedimentary basin with numerous oil seeps number of drillable structures.
Subsequent resulted in another three discoveries and around the margin of the basin.
Geologists regional seismic surveys allowed detailed opened up a new play type in the northern determined that, over a period of time, the mapping of the Ugandan side of the basin part of the Basin.
In 2009, the Buffalo-Giraffe level of Lake Albert varied and developed a confirming yet more drillable structures Field was discovered which management sequence of sand and shale.
The source amongst which Kingfisher was evidently considers to be the largest onshore oil field rock, shale, is where the hydrocarbons one of the largest structures in the Basin.
to be discovered in Sub-Saharan Africa for actually form and the reservoir rock, the In 2008, the large Buffalo-Giraffe Field more than two decades.
sand, is where the hydrocarbons are held.
Regional satellite data was suggestive of a strike-slip origin to the basin, thereby generating the traps.
Analogous rift basins in Africa were reviewed because they were considered to be similar.
18 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PROPOSED DISPOSaL OF 100% SuCCESS RaTE uGanDan InTERESTS Consideration of up to 100% success rate $1.5 billion Six wells drilled in Heritage operated RPS estimated the Ugandan assets to have: Blocks 3A and 1 mean working interest share of risked resources of 543 million barrels of oil Kingfisher was the first discovery in Block 3A equivalent where two wells tested at over 12,000 bopd contingent resources, discounted at 10%, and Kingfisher 3 increased the areal extent of with a mean expected value of $1.1 billion the field.
Warthog was the first success in the risked prospective resources with a mean Block 1 drilling campaign that began in 2008 expected value, discounted at 10%, of followed by the Buffalo-Giraffe discovery.
