Operational review growth in the health sector, a key for the region remains positive and we Key performance indicators focus of continued government expect to be able to grow our existing investment.
businesses as well as capture more of 2009 2008 Change the available market by expanding both Revenue 1,906.8m 1,800.0m 5.9% Lowering the UK all-employee accident our service offering and geographical Headline earnings incidence rate by 20 per cent to 344 per share 49.7p 46.7p 6.4% footprint.
In 2010 we expect our injuries per 100,000 workforce.
1 Cash conversion 201.6% 98.7% 102.9% pts construction businesses to show further Maintaining a safe and healthy 2 Future workload 6.5bn 6.5bn - progress, with lower profits from Dubai environment is fundamental to our 3 Staff turnover 5.6% 8.6% 3.0 % pts offset by continuing growth from Qatar success and being accident-free is UK all-employee accident and Abu Dhabi.
incidence rate per 100,000 workforce 344 429 19.8 % In Equipment Services, given the outlook Outlook in certain markets we will continue to Interserve performed well in 2009, with In the UK our clients are increasingly take action to lower costs and limit headline earnings per share rising 6.4 per under pressure to reduce budgets, to capital expenditure as we maintain focus cent.
Noteworthy achievements in improve efficiencies and to maximise on equipment utilisation.
At the same relation to our key performance the effectiveness of their available time, we are constantly looking for new indicators included: resources given the prevailing economic growth markets in which to utilise the environment.
We are well-positioned to Cash conversion was exceptionally equipment fleet, illustrated by the benefit from this trend, given our strong strong in 2009 at 201.6 per cent recent expansions into Saudi Arabia and capabilities across a broad range of 2008: 98.7 per cent, leading to a South Africa, and expect to continue markets, our proven track record in reduction in net debt to 37.3 million to develop the business going forward.
delivering change and our ability to at 31 December 2009 31 December After an exceptionally strong 2009, we create innovative solutions.
This expect the 2010 Equipment Services term outlook is also attractive, with performance resulted principally from operating margin to return to the rising demand from a growing and a reduction in the level of capital historical range achieved by the division, ageing population to improve the social expenditure and from positive working which will impact the divisions profit infrastructure.
Challenges are evident capital movements, the latter in part contribution relative to the prior year.
in the near-term, as customers are due to an inflow of advances received This will be most evident in the first under pressure to curtail discretionary from customers.
half, given the division posted a record expenditure and the competitive 25.4 per cent operating margin in the Winning work with a whole-life value environment has intensified.
Against first half of 2009. that exceeded 2 billion, contributing this backdrop we have focused on 2 to a future workload at the year end maintaining a healthy future workload Overall, we expect 2010 to be a of 6.5 billion and offering the Group of 6.5 billion, affording strong revenue challenging year, with the first half being good revenue visibility.
We expect our support services particularly impacted by the anticipated includes 1.7 billion of work for 2010 businesses to face another challenging reduction in contribution from Equipment and 1.1 billion of work for 2011. year, with ongoing concerted cost Services and continued cost and margin reduction initiatives on a number of Our Middle East operations achieved pressures in Support Services.
However, newly secured public sector contracts.
another year of strong growth, with we are focused on taking advantage of 4 Our UK construction business has a like-for-like profit growth of 35.8 per the opportunities for renewed growth, healthy order book for 2010 and we cent.
This region now comprises as and when our markets recover.
expect it to maintain its solid 2009 approximately 53 per cent of the performance.
Groups operating profits before Group Services and will remain an important In the Middle East, our geographical Support Services driver of Interserves future earnings spread, the diversity of services we As highlighted in the operational reviews growth, as evidenced by the expansion provide, our local partners, the high below, we have increasingly been of our equipment services business into quality customers with whom we have delivering activities performed by our Saudi Arabia and the establishment of worked for many years and our exposure Specialist Services division to our a support services presence in the to markets with good medium-term Facilities Management clients.
prospects, such as Qatar, Abu Dhabi, January 2010 we have simplified the Generating revenue growth of 5.9 per Oman and Saudi Arabia, will continue to management structure by combining cent despite the tough economic present us with growth opportunities in Facilities Management and Specialist conditions, with a notable 55 per cent the coming years.
The economic outlook Services to form Support Services.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 9 Directors report Business review continued Operational review continued Facilities Management Facilities Management FM provides a broad range of integrated services to the public and private sectors, predominantly in the UK, the majority of which we deliver ourselves.
The division addresses the market through five client-facing units which allows us to tailor our delivery to the particular needs of our target sectors while maximising efficiency and promoting best operational practice across the division.
Results summary: 2009 2008 Change Revenue 862.6m 793.3m 8.7% Contribution to Total Operating Profit 22.1m 32.8m 32.6 % Margin 2.6% 4.1% 1.5 % pts Whilst delivering strong revenue growth from the recently won contracts, the Waste review creates major savings operating performance was materially impacted by weakness in the private Defra Sustainable Built Environment Workplace Support contract sector, significant mobilisation and transition costs on recently won public Following the award to Interserve of the Sustainable Built Environment Workplace sector contracts, and investment in the Support contract by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra, divisions infrastructure and cost base.
a review of waste disposal at one site has generated cost savings of over 85 per cent.
Our businesses exposed to the private Interserves 15-year contract involves much more than the delivery of conventional sector experienced lower volumes, most facilities management services.
Interserve operates as a long-term strategic partner, notably in our higher margin access sharing Defras goals and playing a major role in helping it reach and exceed its activity, together with margin pressure, sustainability targets in areas such as waste and recycling, energy and water as many of our clients reduced demand consumption, carbon emissions and biodiversity.
Interserve is using its RENEWABLES for discretionary work given the sustainability programme to improve: uncertain economic environment.
estate performance in areas such as combined heat and power systems: In the public and utilities sectors usage of sustainable materials such as timber, cleaning and food products: activity levels remained solid, procurement and green supply-chain management: and benefiting from our long-term contracts behavioural change that inspires Defra and Interserve employees to work in the defence, health and government more sustainably.
Notwithstanding pressure on discretionary spend in the near-term as The Veterinary Laboratories Agency VLA, which undertakes research, surveillance part of the UK public sectors focus on and laboratory services for animal and public health, is one of the Defra executive fiscal deficit reduction, these remain agencies supported by Interserve.
When Interserve conducted a review into the attractive growth markets, underpinned disposal of the waste ash generated by the incinerator at VLAs Weybridge site, it by long-term trends towards outsourcing identified that adjustments to operating procedures could allow collections of the as customers continue to seek to reduce ash to be made safely at monthly rather than weekly intervals.
Coupled with a move costs and improve operational efficiency to a different collection agency this has reduced the cost from over 100,000 to less by purchasing bundled services.
We than 15,000 a year and has benefitted the environment by reducing annual vehicle continue to see good potential in this movements from 60 to 12.
Interserve also enabled further savings by arranging for market given there are a limited the collections to include the bags of  APC waste which were number of service providers with the ability to deliver full scope FM previously picked up separately.
contracts, and we continue to develop Liz Davies, Head of Estates for VLA, commented, We really welcome the innovation our business infrastructure to enable us to remain well-positioned to benefit and cost initiatives that Interserve has delivered with the waste streams at the VLA - from this potential.
We deliver value it shows a true partnership approach.
to clients through enhanced operational 10 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 efficiencies over the life of a contract, contracts in both the public and private centres, sports and social facilities, however, the early phases of contracts sectors.
Our defence business secured and training centres.
We commenced generally involve significant a two-year extension to its contract to service provision on 1 December 2009. rationalisation and investment.
Given deliver facilities management services the large number of new public sector in the Falklands Islands and Ascension It is pleasing that the success of our contracts taken on in 2009, this is Island, worth approximately 24 million.
long-term client partnering continues to having a significant impact on nearIn local government, we were awarded be recognised at industry awards.
We are continuing to a 10-year contract with Ealing Council Premises and Facilities Management identify and realise contract cost worth 5 million a year, supplementing PFM awards we won the Partners in reduction opportunities, in addition to similar contracts we have with Croydon Healthcare award for the partnership the 3 million of annualised savings and Slough councils.
Two 25-year contracts between Interserve and the University from actions taken in 2009. to provide facilities management services College London Hospital NHS Trust.
The to schools across Northern Ireland have award recognised not only the strength During the year we made further been added to the divisions future of our partnership, but noted also how progress in three key areas of strategic workload following the attainment of innovative it has been, in particular in development for the division, namely: financial close on these Public Private relation to the achievement of key Partnership PPP projects, whilst in sustainability goals.
Our sustainability National Service Centre NSC.
Having the public healthcare sector we won a credentials were further strengthened opened this facility in the Midlands in 19-year contract worth over 2.5 million with the award of the Human Capital late 2008 the NSC now services five a year to deliver services at seven sites Award for Innovation for the successful major clients and manages over 70,000 in Leeds for the Leeds Partnership NHS development and implementation of our calls a month.
Client feedback has Foundation Trust.
RENEWABLES initiative, complementing been positive and we look forward the prestigious Sustainability in Real to adding additional contracts and We were awarded our first private Estate Award that we received at the technologies to this facility over sector healthcare contract, spanning CoreNet Global UK Awards earlier in time to further benefit both our two years and providing facilities the year.
own productivity and our customers services at CircleBath, a new hospital service levels.
being opened in early 2010 by Circle, Sustainability.
Since its launch in 2008 Europes largest private healthcare we are encouraged by the traction partnership.
In the industrial sector, that our RENEWABLES sustainability we secured a 20 million contract in initiative has gained see page 29 and connection with a large evaporator the recognition that it has achieved installation at the Sellafield nuclear within the industry.
We believe that re-processing plant.
We also won a this will serve to further enhance our three-year contract to deliver credentials in an area that is of integrated support services across four increasing importance to our clients, sites for the heavy engineering division and where we believe that we have a of Alstom, whilst our commercial differentiated offering.
business was awarded a two-year A greater overseas presence.
After contract to be the supplier of cleaning gaining a footprint in Europe via the and associated services across Argoss Foreign and Commonwealth Office 745 UK stores.
contract in 2008 the business developed a presence in the Middle Of particular note is our success in Eastern market during 2009, leveraging winning the HSBC integrated facilities the relationships and infrastructure services contract, worth 200 million that our Project Services operation has and involving the transfer of over 2,400 in the region and our proven track people to Interserve as we deliver record of delivering outsourcing services at over 1,600 retail and 120 contracts in the UK.
Having secured office sites across the UK, Channel some initial contracts in the UAE we Islands and the Isle of Man.
One of are encouraged by the pipeline of the largest such contracts in the UK, opportunities in the region and are Interserves responsibilities include confident of being able to enhance our the delivery of services to the HSBC position in the market during 2010. group headquarters in Canary Wharf in addition to an estate that includes The business continued to develop its ATM cash machines, retail branches, future workload during the year, winning commercial centres, offices, data Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 11 Directors report Business review continued Operational review continued 1,651 branches and 75 offices across the Specialist Services Project Services UK and to deliver nationwide planned This division provides a variety of Project Services works in close and reactive maintenance to 746 lifts of specialised outsourced services which collaboration with clients in the UK and all types and manufacturers.
Our are either delivered discretely or as part the Middle East, leading the design and consulting business has also been of a bundled package to customers of construction process in the creation of a awarded a contract to provide the Facilities Management or Project broad range of buildings and programme management expertise for Services divisions.
The majority of Project small works projects across HSBCs security, mechanical and electrical Services UK work comes from low-risk estate.
On the Defra contract we are M&E design, installation and projects with long-standing clients, and providing security guarding and maintenance and technical services around three-quarters of this activity is passenger lift maintenance, and our including asbestos surveying and in the public and utilities sectors.
In the consulting business has delivered a remediation, lift maintenance and Middle East, where we have been active programme of energy and water surveys heating, ventilation and air conditioning across the region for around 30 years, across the estate in order to help ensure HVAC.
Around half of its revenues are our associate partners play a key role in that Defra exceeds its key sustainability generated from the private sector.
understanding the local business targets.
Following on from earlier environment, advising on suitable successes with Project Services on the Results summary: clients, and providing direction and Leeds BSF project the division has also 2009 2008 Change support in developing long-term, won work on the Sandwell BSF Revenue 172.5m 168.2m 2.6% mutually beneficial working programme.
In an uncertain economic Operating Profit 0.0m 1.0m n a environment such partnerships have Margin - 0.6% 0.6 % pts Despite encountering tough market been, and will remain, of vital conditions the division was also awarded importance.
several notable third-party contracts The division returned a break-even result during the year, including a major capital for the year.
However, following Results summary: 4 plant replacement project for the Bank management action to implement 2009 2008 Change of England: provision of mechanical and restructuring initiatives during the early Revenue UK only 820.5m 770.8m 6.4% electrical installation at a major part of 2009 there was a return to Contribution to Total Operating Profit 40.7m 35.9m 13.4% residential development on Londons profitability during the latter part of UK 17.6m 15.2m 15.8% South Bank: and a contract to provide a 2009, marking an improvement in International associates 23.1m 20.7m 11.6% merchandising security system to Tesco performance after two consecutive sixMargin UK only 2.1% 2.0% 0.1% pts Express stores across the UK and Ireland.
Moreover, we remain on track to deliver annualised The strong demand experienced in our cost savings of approximately 3 million Middle Eastern construction markets in from 2010.
Whilst there has been an recent years continued during 2009, encouraging improvement in the visibility outside of Dubai, resulting in a like-forof future work for the public-sector like increase in contribution from facing segment, the remainder of the international associates of 11.6 per cent.
Given The UK business performed very well in a this outlook, the Board has determined more competitive environment, that it is appropriate to reduce the delivering both revenue and profit carrying value of goodwill associated growth and reporting an improved margin with these activities.
Consolidated Income Statement includes a non-cash exceptional impairment United Kingdom charge of 30.0 million.
In the UK we continued to secure a high level of repeat business with key The division continues to make important customers in our chosen sectors of contributions supporting our clients expertise: education, health, custodial, throughout the Group, such as HSBC, and water and highways infrastructure.
Defra and the Sandwell Building Schools Whilst anticipating some near-term for the Future BSF programme.
The pressure on public sector capital recently commenced HSBC FM contract spending the business has positioned has generated work for Specialist itself well, and we are greatly Services, with contracts to provide encouraged by our future workload, in monthly window cleaning services to 12 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 particular the current workload for 2011.
At the end of 2009 the UK future workload contained a healthy 0.4 billion of work for 2011, which compares favourably with the prior year comparative figure of 0.2 billion.
2009 was another busy year for our education business.
We completed a further three schools in the Leeds BSF programme and are nearing completion of two leisure centres within the programme which are the first noneducational PFI projects within the BSF programme.
We added the 280 million Sandwell BSF project to our workload in the middle of 2009, and separately won a 77 million contract to construct the new Sandwell College during 2010.
In November 2009 we won a place on both From training to maintenance sectors of Partnership for Schools new The development of a long-term relationship with Shell in Qatar 4 billion National Contractors Framework for Academies.
Work totalling Pearl GTL, being created by Qatar Petroleum and Shell, will be the worlds largest gas- 650 million is already visible for the to-liquids plant, converting natural gas into 140,000 barrels per day of clean-burning first six months of the framework, which liquid transport fuel and other liquid products and 120,000 barrels per day of natural is expected to run for four years.
Both the scale of the facility and the sophistication of the process engineering are breathtaking - and Interserves Madina Group will be In health, we delivered work arising responsible for maintaining it.
from each of the framework agreements in England ProCure21, Wales Designed Taking its feed from two platforms 60 km offshore in Qatars North Field - the biggest for Life: Building for Wales and Scotland gas field in the world, holding about 15 per cent of the world's reserves - the onshore NHS Scotland: Frameworks Scotland, processing facility at Ras Laffan Industrial City is currently being commissioned: generating revenues of almost 160 million during the year.
We are currently working construction is due to complete by the end of 2010 with a ramp-up to full production on over 50 projects under the ProCure21 over the following year.
framework, including a project worth approximately 20 million to expand Qatar Shell and Madina began working together in 2008 when Madina won a three-year facilities at Christie Hospital, Manchester, contract to supply health, safety, environment and supervisory training services to the one of the largest cancer treatment tens of thousands of people associated with the Pearl GTL facility.
This relationship centres in Europe: two major schemes played a role in Madinas success in the subsequent rigorous, year-long tender and for Birmingham and Solihull Mental selection process that culminated in the award of a five-year contract to provide a Health, worth around 40 million in range of management and maintenance services at Pearl GTL including: total: and a new 20 million centre Health, safety, environment, quality assurance and administration management for women, children and babies at the Estimating, pricing and procurement Royal Bolton Hospital.
Planning and scheduling Our leading position as a prison Engineering and mechanical services contractor for the Ministry of Justice Instrument maintenance was enhanced in 2009.
We completed Electrical maintenance the 32 million extension works at HMP Telecommunication Forest Bank, and were awarded major contracts for the construction of a new We anticipate assigning over 300 technicians to the site to undertake both preventive young offender institution at Belmarsh, and reactive maintenance and to ensure that the Pearl GTL plant stays at the peak of and a new facility for the Youth Justice operational efficiency.
The contract enables Shell to develop its long-term integrated Board at Glen Parva, worth 110 million relationship with Madina as a member of its key supply chain and is structured to allow and 70 million respectively, along with both parties to gain from operational improvements and to share in the benefits of a new prison block at HMP Acklington.
Over 1,000 new prisoner places will be achieving exceptional performance.
provided by these three new projects.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 13 Directors report Business review continued Operational review continued In infrastructure, we continued to Severn Trent Water, and our KMI joint Centre and Ducab, though expect activity develop our strong relationships with the venture is a 2009 winner of a levels to remain muted in the near term water utilities, the Highways Agency and Construction News Quality in and have, accordingly, reduced employee the Environment Agency.
Our successful Construction Award for its environmental numbers by approximately 2,000.
There renewal of frameworks for the Highways work at the newly built Hodder Service remains, however, a good stream of Agency for specialist concrete repairs Reservoir.
It is also very pleasing to note opportunities in the growing Abu Dhabi and highways structures maintenance that we were named the Best Building construction market, where the oil has secured revenues approaching Contractor with over 500 employees in wealth provides a sustainable 25 million per annum.
Of particular the Best Places to Work in Construction development basis, and we would expect note is the progress made in the water 2009 awards and were awarded that this will mitigate the lower activity infrastructure sector, where we were maximum five-star Recognised for levels in Dubai over time.
successful in securing places on the Excellence status, by the British Quality AMP5 framework contracts with United Foundation, following their independent In Oman, the construction market Utilities and South West Water.
Nearing evidence-based assessment scored environment improved as 2009 completion is the Thames Gateway against the EFQM Excellence Model.
progressed, and we are encouraged by desalination plant for Thames Water.
The Sultanates desire to have also been awarded two contracts Middle East develop its social infrastructure and totalling 60 million by the same client Our Middle East associate businesses diversify the economy away from oil and to construct new facilities and upgrade traded well during 2009 and we remain gas is leading to new opportunities and existing works at their Riverside positive about the outlook for the region, awards in the commercial, residential, wastewater treatment plant.
We expect despite the decline in activity in Dubai.
leisure, education and judicial sectors, the water sector to provide a steady though work undertaken in 2009 throughput of work over the coming In our most significant market, Qatar, remained focused on the petrochemical years.
During the year continued to work with our blue-chip we completed work on a power and Several other sectors also contributed to long-term clients including Siemens, desalination plant at Barka for Doosan divisional earnings.
These include the Shell, ABB, Exxon Mobil, HSBC and Qatar Heavy Industries, and we are nearing defence sector, where a major project at National Bank to continue the expansion completion of the construction of RAF Benson was completed and the of petrochemical capacity and facilities further Permanent Accommodation construction of a new hangar at RAF at Ras Laffan Industrial City, and the for Contractors units for Renaissance Brize Norton is ongoing.
The delivery of development of social infrastructure and Services, worth approximately the refurbished Turnberry Hotel and Golf commercial space in and around Doha.
Resort in time for The Open was a Notable awards included the recently notable achievement within the announced five-year services contract commercial sector.
We also have places with Shell and construction work at on a range of multi-year construction Education City, supplementing the work frameworks for local authorities such as won earlier in the year at Ras Laffan North Yorkshire County Council, and have with Oryx and Baker Hughes.
Whilst been appointed to multi-authority there has been a temporary slowdown in frameworks, including the Construction project awards in recent months, the Framework South West and YORBuild pipeline of opportunities in Qatar programmes.
remains strong, including developments at Dohaland, Energy City, Lusail City, During 2009 we continued to win further expansion at Ras Laffan Industrial recognition and accolades from industry City and the Qatar-Bahrain Friendship bodies for our achievements, including Bridge.
Given this market environment further recognition for our Leeds BSF we expect to see an improvement in team as they were awarded Integrated workload as 2010 progresses, and are Supply Chain of the Year at the annual encouraged by the contract awards Building Awards hosted by Building announced separately today with a Magazine.
The divisions sustainability combined value of over 90 million.
credentials were strengthened with our work at the Thames Gateway In the UAE, the market in Dubai slowed desalination plant being awarded the during 2009 as many planned schemes Most Sustainable Project at the Annual were re-appraised in light of the Awards Ceremony of Global Water financial difficulties many developers Intelligence.
Elsewhere we received the faced.
We won contracts in 2009 with Gold RoSPA award for our work with Majid Al Futtaim, the Dubai World Trade 14 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 Equipment Services Equipment Services provides temporary structural equipment and the engineering designs for use in complex infrastructure and building projects, generating revenue through both hire contracts and equipment sales of both new and used components.
The division operates across a wide range of geographies and Raising the roof in Abu Dhabi market sectors, enabling the transfer of equipment to areas of high demand The falsework designs that made The Yas Hotel shroud possible to optimise asset productivity and TM mitigating the effects of countryThe Yas Hotel, centrepiece of the Formula 1 Etihad Airways Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, specific cyclicality.
features a stunning three-dimensional curvilinear shroud, a 217-metre expanse of sweeping glass and steel known as the grid-shell.
With such a ground-breaking Results summary: structure, the engineering knowledge and creativity necessary to turn the vision 2009 2008 Change into reality needed to match the architectural brilliance of its design.
Revenue 157.1m 171.7m 8.5 % Contribution to Total The grid-shell and the twin-towered hotel beneath were commissioned by Aldar Operating Profit 35.9m 29.6m 21.3% Properties.
Interserve's Equipment Services division, RMD Kwikform, was identified as Margin 22.9% 17.2% 5.7% pts possibly the only company in the region capable of designing the falsework solution and The division maintained its strong supplying the equipment that would enable the grid-shell to be created.
The project performance from the first half through would have been a formidable challenge under any circumstances, but the tight the remainder of the year, posting an schedule imposed by the Formula One race meant that the shell needed to be built exceptional full-year contribution to in just 30 weeks and at the same time as the hotel within was being completed, so Total Operating Profit of 35.9 million.
the falsework design also had to allow continued access for the hotel teams.
Our progress was based on continued strength in the Middle East, which was RMD Kwikforms engineers used its proprietary systems as the principal structural boosted by the impact of several major elements in a series of temporary supporting towers, some standing on dry land and hire contracts in the UAE, together with others rising as much as 40 metres from within the marina.
These bore the 30-tonne another improved, healthy contribution weight of each of the 217 steel ladders making up the grid-shell.
This offset a more purpose-built brackets to connect the 911 node points of the shell to the towers, using challenging environment across Europe specialist 3-D modelling and load-analysis software to define the unique directional and the rest of Asia.
Where appropriate, loading and turning forces acting at each node and taking into account the wind cost reduction measures have been pressure and thermal expansion in the 45-degree heat.
implemented in order to mitigate the tough near-term demand outlook in The challenges met, the inaugural grand prix took place to worldwide acclaim - against these territories.
These are expected to a dazzling visual backdrop made possible by RMD Kwikform's engineering skill.
realise cost savings of around 2 million during 2010.
Photo: Rogier van der Heide Regionally: Middle East and Africa Our Middle East operation had a particularly strong year, benefiting from several significant contracts during the year, including work at Yas Island for the Formula One race track and associated facilities and a major contract at the new Dubai airport terminal.
Our Abu Dhabi operation is allowing us to optimise fleet utilisation by migrating equipment to this growing market from Dubai, where activity levels are expected to be modest going forward.
Exports to the North African countries of Libya, Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 15 Directors report Business review continued Operational review continued Morocco and Algeria made useful contributions and the business continues to broaden its scope with India and Iraq expected to add to the regions export markets during 2010.
Our start-up South African operation continues to develop and we look forward to progress in 2010.
During 2009 we established an operation in Saudi Arabia, the largest addressable construction market in the Gulf, and expect the business to begin contributing to divisional profit during 2010.
Australasia and Far East Our market-leading Australian business had another good year, boosted by the infrastructure and mining markets.
We worked on the largest civil engineering project undertaken in the Darwin area, Rodillian High School the A$400 million Tiger Brennan Drive project, which involved road building, Partnership proves its point earth works and bridge construction.
With the commercial and residential Praise and awards for Leeds Building Schools for the Future sectors expected to remain subdued in When the Interserve-led consortium Environments for Learning E4L was selected by Australia during 2010, much now depends Leeds City Council to undertake its Building Schools for the Future BSF programme, on the size and timing of any fiscal stimulus and its translation into higher it marked the beginning of a partnership that has been recognised as creating some infrastructure spending.
The contribution of the most inspiring new learning environments in the country.
from the Far East remained weak, affected particularly by adverse The local education partnership LEP is a 10-year strategic collaboration between conditions in Korea and Hong Kong.
With E4L, the council and the government's Partnership for Schools.
The close working a limited outlook in these territories we relationship between these parties and Education Leeds has created the opportunity have been taking action to downsize to transform education for generations of students.
From the beginning the partnership operations and redeploy fleet to more ethos enabled fast and high-quality progress.
The contract achieved financial close attractive markets, and anticipate an only 14 weeks after E4Ls appointment as preferred bidder, and four new PFI schools improved performance in 2010. and two refurbishments were operational less than 18 months later.
Further new and refurbished schools and sports centres have followed in the subsequent phases Europe of the ongoing programme.
With challenging market conditions across the region throughout 2009 the In all these projects quality of design and delivery has been a key focus.
At the focus has been on reducing the cost base Excellence in BSF awards in November 2008 Leeds won both the Best Operational LEP and capital expenditure.
Headcount has and the Innovation in ICT awards.
The Leeds BSF team was then named Integrated been lowered by around 15 per cent in Supply Team of the Year in the 2009 Building Awards.
The citation read: Its hard to the UK and Spain and approximately 40 per cent in Ireland, where the trading imagine a BSF project without collaborative working, but the winner here proves that environment has been particularly poor.
if done well, it can push the finished product that extra mile.
Comprising secondary Thanks to these early cost reduction schools for 6,000 pupils as well as leisure centres, this scheme was one of the largest initiatives the region performed BSF projects and yet was one of the first to reach financial close and start on site creditably.
In 2010 the UK is expecting and one of the quickest to complete.
Nobody has any illusions about the complexity of to benefit from additional work for the delivering a project of this scale, and the fact that it was done so successfully is a Olympics having already completed a credit to Interserve and a testament to its efforts to ensure collaborative working major project at the Olympic Aquatics throughout the process, from signing the contract to building on site.
Centre in 2009, East London Line, Crossrail and M25 widening, though 16 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 activity in the commercial sector is likely Separately, cash amounting to 15 million to remain at the current low level.
Spain was released from the portfolio via the and Ireland are not expected to improve sale of our interests in the Sheffield significantly in the near term.
The Schools project and the repayment of businesses in the region will continue to the majority of our subordinated debt in prioritise fleet utilisation and cost the University College London Hospital reduction until such time as the demand UCLH project.
Going forward, we environment improves.
expect further cash generation from the mature projects in the portfolio, which will assist in the funding of new projects.
PFI Investments The PFI Investments division leads all the We also added to the portfolio, reaching Groups PFI activities.
It manages our financial close on four contracts during investment portfolio and, in many cases, 2009.
Three of these contracts were in delivers management services to the Northern Ireland, including the acute Special Purpose Companies established to hospital at Enniskillen and two schools run the contracts.
projects in Down & Connor and Downpatrick.
As well as injecting equity 2009 2008 Change into the PFI projects, Interserve will Contribution to Total benefit from the income streams flowing Operating Profit 4.7m 2.8m 67.9% from the 25-year services contracts with Interest received on the schools and the 30-year services subordinated debt investments 4.6m 4.7m 2.1 % contract at the hospital.
The remaining 9.3m 7.5m 24.0% project to reach financial close was the Sandwell BSF programme, which is worth 2009 has been a particularly active more than 280 million in construction period with respect to our PFI portfolio, and services revenues to Interserve over with new projects being added and 25 years.
Work has already begun on considerable value being generated via the first two schools within this project, the transfer of a large part of the which are due to be fully operational portfolio to the Interserve Pension in 2011.
Scheme, a cash disposal and a debt repayment.
Following the above transactions 1 Cash conversion is calculated as the percentage of our investment commitment in signed cash generated by operations of 41.0m 2008: Of most significance was the projects totals 54.3 million, of 58.6m adjusted for the cash impact of exceptional announcement in November 2009 of the which 19.8 million had been paid at items 73.1m 2008: nil, divided by the sum of: transfer of the Groups interest in 13 PFI 31 December 2009.
The preferred bidder operating profit of 67.9m 2008: 54.4m : plus investments, across a range of sectors, project that we secured in January 2009, amortisation of acquired intangible assets of 5.0m 2008: 5.0m : less exceptional items of 16.3m to the Interserve Pension Scheme the in partnership with United Utilities, for 2008: nil.
Scheme through an innovative a 500 million waste-treatment contract 2 Future workload comprises contracted work plus work transaction to realise value from the in Derbyshire, will involve further that has been settled and on which final terms are substantial long-term cash flow streams investment of around 12 million.
being agreed principally PFI projects at preferred inherent within the PFI portfolio.
It includes our share of Middle East Interserve will continue to manage the We are short-listed on a number of associates' future workload.
investments on behalf of the Scheme, projects across several sectors and we 3 Staff turnover measures the proportion of managerial, technical and office-based staff leaving the Company and retains all current arrangements for expect to make further progress in and its subsidiaries voluntarily over the course of the the delivery of facilities services worth a developing our PFI portfolio, and year.
whole-life value of over 1.3 billion.
All generating additional value from it, 4 Adjusted for a presentational change in the basis of future interest and dividend income will over the coming years.
taxation of our Qatari associate companies, as be payable to the Scheme.
The valuation previously communicated in the 2009 half-year report.
of 61.5 million represented an effective Group Services Whilst there is no impact on Group earnings per share it has resulted in a reduction in reported operating discount rate of 6.5 per cent and a Costs accounted for within Group Services profits from associate companies, matched by an multiple of 2.6 times invested capital.
of 17.7 million 2008: 17.9 million equal reduction in the Group tax charge.
Applying the The Group has recorded an exceptional relate to our PFI bidding activity, a current basis of taxation to 2008, the reported profit of 33.2 million in the 2009 range of centrally-provided services operating profits from associate companies in that Consolidated income statement.
period has been reduced by 3.8m.
