14 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Operating Review Group overview Intertek is a global market leader in many industries, supporting customers in the international marketplace and ensuring that their products comply with their own quality and safety standards and all relevant external regulations.
Our services cover the whole supply chain including the sourcing of raw materials, product design, manufacturing processes, compliance certications and performance testing of the end product.
Our customers range from major household names and international corporations to niche suppliers, globally and locally.
With over 1,000 facilities in more than 100 countries and over 25,000 employees, we can provide services in almost every country in the world.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 15 What we do increasing consumer demand for good quality, safe and Intertek is a global market leader providing safety and quality environmentally friendly products, more stringent regulations, services to customers to add value to their products and and the increasing requirement for independent certication processes, and support their success in the global marketplace.
of the quantity and quality of traded commodities.
We help customers improve performance, gain efficiencies in manufacturing and logistics, overcome market constraints and By outsourcing their testing to us, customers reduce the cost of reduce risk.
We offer a comprehensive range of services from maintaining in-house testing facilities and they benefit from the testing, inspection and certication through to auditing and economies of scale that we can achieve by higher utilisation of the consultancy.
Using  methods, standards, laboratory equipment and personnel.
Many products are subject equipment and guidelines, we test consumer products, commercial to increased regulation to protect consumers and the environment.
products, commodities, food, and raw materials for quality For example, the US Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act control, research, vendor compliance and against regulatory CPSIA contains many provisions concerning the safety and quality and customer requirements.
of consumer goods and more stringent requirements for childrens products.
In the European Union, the Registration, Evaluation Our testing methods use a wide range of skills including complex and Authorisation of Chemicals REACH regulation covers over analytical laboratory techniques in the elds of organic and 30,000 chemicals used in products.
We advise our customers on inorganic chemistry and biochemistry, critical analysis to troublethe regulatory developments that are applicable to their products shoot customers problems, 3D laser scanning, electromagnetic in the markets they choose.
compatibility testing, minerals assay and performance testing amongst many others.
We provide inspection services to Despite slower economic activity, the key growth drivers behind the manufacturers, retailers, bulk commodity traders, governments Intertek business model remain intact.
We tend to test products at and international buyers and sellers of goods, including factory the prototype stage and therefore our business is driven by product evaluation, quality inspection, custody transfer, pre-production, development activity rather than the volume of products sold.
in-production, final random sampling, pre-shipment and loading supervision.
We hold an extensive range of global accreditations, Our employees recognitions and agreements to provide certication services for At 31 December 2009, the Group employed 25,183 people 2008: manufacturers, retailers and traders to enable them to sell products 23,841 in over 100 countries.
Our people include highly skilled in virtually any market in the world.
Our audit services check scientists and engineers with specialist knowledge of the industries whether a process, system or facility is performing in the prescribed in which we operate.
Many are educated to degree level and manner.
This includes corporate social responsibility auditing to above and are peer group leaders in their elds of expertise.
Our ensure that factory conditions, especially in developing countries, operations are located close to our customers and our strategy is meet the standards required by our clients.
We also offer an to employ and develop people native to those locations as they have extensive range of consultancy and training services.
Our services a better understanding of local issues and cultures and can build are integrated together to provide our customers with a complete strong customer relationships.
Through their appointed relationship and customised service that meets the precise requirements of the manager, our clients can access all the services and expertise offered different industries in which they operate.
Through our Intertek as One programme we emphasise the need to join together to ensure our customers Our market receive a co-ordinated and cohesive service.
We have a strong Intertek provides services to a wide range of industry sectors, emphasis on training and professional development and this including Aerospace & Automotive, Building Products, Chemicals, together with the strength of our collective leadership ensures that Consumer Goods & Retailers, Electrical & Electronic, Energy, Food & our employees remain motivated to deliver a world class service.
Agriculture, Industrial, IT & Telecom, Medical & Pharmaceutical, Minerals, Petroleum, Toys, Games & Hardlines and Textiles, Apparel & Footwear.
Each industry has its own characteristics but there are a number of key drivers for our services common to all markets.
These are global and local trade through new product development, 16 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Operating Review Group overview Our impact on the environment significant relationships Being a service industry, energy consumption is not a material part The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships of our cost base.
In 2009, 1.2% 2008: 1.3% of our total costs with any single party which are essential to the business of the were spent on gas and electricity.
However, we are mindful of Group and therefore, no such relationships have been disclosed.
our impact on the environment and where possible take measures to reduce energy consumption and eliminate waste.
Our internal Divisional structure meetings are increasingly held by conference call to reduce our For management purposes we organise ourselves into operating emissions footprint.
We recycle waste paper and we dispose of divisions combining similar industry sectors.
During 2009, these our waste products responsibly and in compliance with applicable divisions were Consumer Goods, Commercial & Electrical, Oil, legislation.
In the UK and Ireland we operate a green company Chemical & Agri, Analytical Services, Industrial Services and car policy.
We aim to operate a balanced portfolio of businesses across industry sectors and regions.
Our main impact on the environment is through the services we offer to customers.
We test the performance and evaluate Our performance in 2009 the efficiency of products and advise customers of ways in which Considering the challenging economic environment the Group had they can improve their products and processes to reduce energy a good year with underlying organic growth boosted by acquisitions use.
Since we usually perform our work at the design stage of and favourable exchange rates.
Revenue increased by 23.3% 7.0% product development, the small amount of energy that we use at constant exchange rates and adjusted operating profit increased to conduct our tests is far outweighed by the global benets to by 26.9% 6.1% at constant exchange rates.
The adjusted the environment of our clients using our advice to produce energy operating margin was 16.9%, up 50 basis points from last year efficient products on a larger scale.
Our services are supporting the down 10 basis points at constant exchange rates.
The results for growing alternative energy sectors such as photovoltaic, biofuels 2009 by division are summarised below.
More details about our employees and the environment are provided in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report which starts on page 32.
Before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairment and non-recurring costs.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 17 We calculate organic growth by excluding the results of acquisitions The key growth drivers in our business model remain unchanged made in 2008 and 2009.
On an organic basis, revenue grew by so our business is robust.
The prevailing economic uncertainty 19.4% 3.5% at constant exchange rates and adjusted operating made it difficult to predict performance in 2009 and to some extent profit grew by 24.4% 3.7% at constant exchange rates.
The decline in global trade in products and organic growth was generated primarily by growth in the market commodities affected our customers and reduced the volume of for quality and safety services, an increase in environmental goods that we inspect.
Some of our customers are undertaking regulations and an increase in outsourcing.
fewer development projects and have reduced their outsourcing which has reduced the number of products that we test and certify.
Part of the Groups growth strategy is to make acquisitions which complement and extend the Groups service offering into new Each of our divisions offers opportunities for organic growth areas of expertise and new locations.
As the economic outlook through increasing our service offering to customers, to add value in 2009 was uncertain and financial markets were turbulent, the to their products and processes and help them compete in the Group took the strategic decision to slow down its acquisition global market.
We anticipate that businesses will increasingly be activity.
Three businesses were acquired in the first part of the looking to reduce the cost of non-core activities such as in-house year which had operations in six different countries.
The two main testing, which provides us with an opportunity to offer our services.
acquisitions were in Industrial Services which is one of the sectors We have been very successful in nding acquisitions which extend targeted for investment.
Whilst we deliberately reduced the number of acquisitions completed in 2009, we still maintain a pipeline of Details of the performance of each division, including more opportunities which we are pursuing, and we expect to continue information about the acquisitions are given in the Review our strategy of growing our business through acquisitions in by division which starts on page 18. the future.
The market for our services continues to expand.
Consumers and regulatory bodies are increasingly concerned about the quality and safety of products and services and their impact on health and the environment.
The number of global and domestic regulations regarding the environment and the safety and quality of products continues to increase.
Manufacturers and retailers need to meet the demands of their customers and ensure that they comply with quality and safety requirements, increasingly complex legislation and longer supply chains.
We work in partnership with our customers to help them meet those demands and increase the value of their products and services.
Our business is based on facilitating trade and increasing consumer demand for product variety, quality and safety, as well as manufacturers desire to reduce overhead costs by outsourcing testing and inspection activities.
Our 2009 organic revenue growth at constant exchange rates was 3.5%.
As expected, some of our businesses were signicantly affected by the global recession, however we are very well diversied, both geographically and across industry sectors, which helped to mitigate any weaker performing areas.
18 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Operating Review Consumer Goods Paul Yao Group Executive Vice President Consumer Goods 2009 Change at Change at Our performance in 2009 Financial Highlights m actual rates constant rates The Consumer Goods division delivered very strong results Revenue 320.9 32.3% 12.4% with total revenue of 320.9m up 32.3% 12.4% at constant Adjusted operating profit 105.5 40.5% 16.8% exchange rates and organic revenue up 29.0% 9.3% at Adjusted operating margin 32.9% 190bp 120bp constant exchange rates.
Textiles, Apparel & Footwear which is the largest sector in the What we do division grew well, with excellent results in China supported The Consumer Goods division is a market leading provider of by growth in Turkey, Taiwan, India and Vietnam.
The first half services to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines, food and retail of 2009, bene ted from the surge in volume of childrens industries.
Services include testing, inspection, auditing, advisory products requiring testing to comply with the US Consumer services, quality assurance and hazardous substance testing.
Product Safety Improvement Act CPSIA, which started in the Customers are often retailers but also include manufacturers and second half of 2008.
This increase was not sustained in the suppliers within a global supply chain.
second half of 2009 as customers had cleared their inventory back logs and volumes became normalised.
Intertek has The market for the services of the Consumer Goods division is 26 laboratories accredited under CPSIA, located in the Americas, diverse.
Demand is driven by retailers who require the goods they Europe and Asia.
sell to be produced to a quality set by either their own internal standards or by standards applicable in a particular country or region.
Although still relatively small, revenue from the food sector Increasingly, materials are sourced and goods are manufactured in increased considerably, helped by good results from businesses locations that are remote from the consumer, causing supply chains we acquired in 2008.
Our strategy of investing in the food to be longer and more complex.
The market is also being driven by industry continued with the establishment of new food testing regulations issued to address safety and environmental concerns over laboratories in India and Thailand.
such issues as carcinogenic dyes in textiles and chemicals in childrens products, toys and cosmetics.
Total adjusted operating pro t was 105.5m, up 40.5% 16.8% at constant exchange rates.
Organic adjusted operating pro t increased by 40.5% 16.6% at constant exchange rates.
The total adjusted operating margin increased 190 basis points to 32.9% from 31.0% in 2008.
Zero injuries The number of injuries reported following the implementation of our quality and safety programme for toys distributed by one of our global clients.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 19 On 13 October 2009, we celebrated the 20th anniversary of Concern over the safety of Interteks operations in mainland China.
The Group commenced consumer products has increased its operations in China in 1989 with a consumer goods testing joint venture in Shenzhen, making it the first international provider demand from consumers and of quality and safety solutions to enter China.
Since then we have signicantly expanded the range of services we offer and the regulatory bodies for independent industries we support.
We continue to invest in our operations and assurance of quality and safety.
facilities in China in all our divisions and today we have more than 6,000 employees in China and over 100 ofces and laboratories.
The key growth drivers in Consumer Goods remain strong, principally the sourcing of products from lower cost manufacturers in countries such as China, the increasingly wide range of products being sold by retailers and shorter product lifecycles.
Concern over the safety of consumer products has increased demand from consumers and regulatory bodies for independent assurance of quality and safety.
Although two-thirds of revenue is derived from toys and textiles testing, the remainder is from our expanding service lines such as consultancy, inspection, supply chain services, food and corporate social responsibility where margins are not always as high as those earned by the established services.
As many economies are currently entering a recessionary phase, consumer spending is declining.
Whilst our business is dependent on the variety of goods produced and new product development rather than the volume sold, a prolonged decline in consumer spending could result in a reduction in product development.
We aim to grow our revenue by developing new services, integrating our services and providing innovative supply chain solutions to our customers.
24 7 Our virtual database tools provide 24 7 transparency and allow rapid real-time analysis and documentation of eld data, helping us to deliver immediate solutions and recurring benets to our clients.
20 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Operating Review Commercial & Electrical Gregg Tiemann Division Executive Vice President Commercial & Electrical 2009 Change at Change at Our performance in 2009 Financial Highlights m actual rates constant rates Total revenue increased to 244.8m, up 20.3% 2.3% at constant Revenue 244.8 20.3% 2.3% exchange rates and organic revenue increased by 18.0% 0.4% Adjusted operating profit 34.7 18.8% 2.0 % at constant exchange rates.
Performance in the Commercial & Adjusted operating margin 14.2% 10 bp 70 bp Electrical division was strong in some sectors such as the core electrical testing business, which reported good results worldwide, particularly in lighting, and heating, ventilation and air conditioning What we do HVAC.
We also reported good growth in the renewable energy The Commercial & Electrical division provides services including sector where we guide clients through the complex regulatory testing and certication, electromagnetic compatibility testing EMC, issues affecting renewable energies including photovoltaic and outsourcing, benchmark and performance testing and environmental wind power equipment.
Growth in the building products sector testing.
These are provided to a wide range of industries including was limited by delays in new construction projects and the the home appliance, lighting, medical, building, industrial and automotive industry continued to be depressed.
HVAC R heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration, IT, telecom, renewable energy and automotive industries.
Our Total adjusted operating profit was 34.7m, up 18.8% down customers are mostly manufacturers but also retailers, industry 2.0% at constant exchange rates.
Organic adjusted operating organisations and government departments.
Intertek has the widest profit increased by 10.9% down 8.7% at constant exchange RANGE OF OWNED MARKS AND ACCREDITATIONS INCLUDING THE %4, LISTED rates.
The total adjusted operating margin decreased 10 basis MARK THE 7ARNOCK ERSEY MARK FOR.
ORTH !MERICA AND THE 3 MARK points to 14.2%.
Asta mark and BEAB mark for Europe, as well as being a leader in providing CB certication and the CE mark and GS mark for Europe.
Despite difficult trading conditions in certain markets, the adjusted operating profit at constant exchange rates did not decline The market for our Commercial & Electrical services is driven primarily signicantly.
Underperforming sectors were reorganised to improve by increasing regulations over the safety of products, product opportunities, maximise synergies and contain costs.
variety and growing environmental concerns.
This includes current concerns over climate change and the impact on the environment In April 2009, the Group acquired Sagentia Catella, a globally of electrical products.
renowned battery testing business based in Sweden.
This business has been integrated with Interteks global energy services laboratories throughout Europe, the USA and Asia and benets global customers who are developing more efficient energy storage technologies and more reliable and environmentally friendly products.
Since acquisition, we have extended the service offering into the hybrid and electrical vehicles market, which we expect to be a future growth area.
83% This is the time saving we achieved by streamlining one of our clients solar panel testing process from 18 months to 84 days.
Accelerating product delivery has increased customer satisfaction and improved sales.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 21 Customer demand for safe, reliable, energy efficient products Customer demand for safe, reliable, continues to increase and the market for Commercial & Electrical energy efficient products continues continues to evolve presenting opportunities for growth.
Market drivers in the medical and renewable energy sectors remain strong.
to increase and the market for Concerns over climate change are driving new directives regarding the energy usage of products, particularly in the HVAC industry and Commercial & Electrical continues this is expected to extend to other industries.
The consumer market to evolve presenting opportunities for home appliances and electronics is under pressure and the growth of information, communication and technology products for growth.
This may provide us with opportunities as customers seek to maintain or increase their market share through product innovation, improvements in quality and durability, and performance comparisons, and cut their costs by improving efficiency.
The issues in the automotive industry are well documented but we do not anticipate a significant further decline.
We are closely monitoring our business in this sector and will reduce costs if revenue continues to decline.
Market conditions in 2009 provided both challenges and opportunities for the Commercial & Electrical division.
The renewable energy industries are expected to grow rapidly and we are well placed to support this growth.
The automotive sector remains a concern although there are signs that the decline will not worsen.
We will continue to strive for operational excellence and aim to strengthen our market share by offering superior service.
There are many small niche players in the market and this provides opportunities for us to continue adding inll acquisitions.
Rated Best Buy This is the status a leading manufacturer of consumer electronics achieved when we helped to improve the performance of their, #$ 46S THROUGH TECHNICAL ASSESSMENTS 22 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Operating Review Oil, Chemical & Agri Jay Gutierrez Division Executive Vice President Oil, Chemical & Agri 2009 Change at Change at Our performance in 2009 Financial Highlights m actual rates constant rates Revenue increased to 406.7m, up 16.7% 2.2% at constant Revenue 406.7 16.7% 2.2% exchange rates.
There were no acquisitions in this division so all Adjusted operating profit 43.7 11.2% 7.2 % growth is organic.
Double digit revenue growth in the Middle East, Adjusted operating margin 10.7% 60 bp 110 bp Asia and South America was reduced by a decline in revenues in.
ORTH !MERICA 4HE REDUCTION IN GROWTH WAS MAINLY IN THE %AST #OAST and the East Gulf Coast regions of the USA where trading What we do conditions have been particularly badly affected by the economic The Oil, Chemical & Agri division provides independent cargo downturn.
Several reneries have closed and customers have inspection as well as non-inspection related laboratory testing, reduced their development expenditure and retained more calibration and related technical services.
Our customers include analytical work in-house.
The recession also slowed the growth in the worlds energy, petroleum, chemical and agricultural industries.
demand for biofuels market, although we expect this to recover as Cargo inspection and testing is a well established global market in soon as confidence in the economy returns.
which Intertek is one of the leading service providers.
High barriers to entry are principally due to the xed costs of establishing a global Total adjusted operating profit increased to 43.7m, up 11.2% network of operations and laboratories and our excellent reputation down 7.2% at constant exchange rates.
The adjusted operating and experience earned through decades of service in the industry.
margin declined by 60 basis points to 10.7%.
The margin decline The division also provides cargo scanning, scal support services was mainly due to a change in the mix of services provided and and standards programmes to governments, national standards increased pricing pressure.
The revenue growth was mostly in organisations and customs authorities.
These services were inspection and inspection related testing which earns a lower previously reported separately as the Government Services division.
margin than more complex non-inspection related testing.
Underperforming operations have been reorganised and some small non-core businesses will be divested.
The core inspection business is steady and we expect the demand for higher margin complex testing services to increase once the global recession recedes and investment resumes.
We also expect the demand for biofuels to grow, leading to the development of new technologies and production methods.
Once market conditions improve we expect the margin for this division to increase.
Recognition We have a strong track record of turning original ideas into new solutions.
Our new oil analysis process has been reviewed independently and been given formal accreditation to the international standard ISO 17025. www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 23 Analytical Services Andrew Swift Division Executive Vice President Analytical Services 2009 Change at Change at testing which accounted for almost half of the divisions revenue, Financial Highlights m actual rates constant rates had a strong nish to the year with several manufacturing plants Revenue 137.5 15.1% 4.3% returning to normal production rates, from their previous 12-month Adjusted operating profit 14.6 10.6% 2.0 % record low.
Our results also benefited strongly from our efforts to Adjusted operating margin 10.6% 40 bp 70 bp generate sales in new materials research and development projects and from the impact of impending new regulatory programmes in automotive lubricants.
Overall, the pharmaceutical and speciality What we do chemicals sector continued to be challenging.
Sales erosion was Analytical Services provides expert laboratory measurement experienced mostly in the USA, due to the merger of large and consultancy services to a broad range of industries including pharmaceutical companies and the shortage of investment chemical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas, and automotive and capital available to the smaller biotech companies.
We have an established track record of success pharmaceutical services business was restructured to consolidate in laboratory outsourcing with many large internationally resources and reposition its business growth opportunity into recognised companies.
Our performance in 2009 Total adjusted operating profit increased to 14.6m, up 10.6% Total revenue in 2009 was 137.5m, up 15.1% 4.3% at constant down 2.0% at constant exchange rates.
Organic adjusted exchange rates over the prior year.
Organic revenue increased operating profit increased by 13.0% down 1.5% at constant 14.9% 4.0% at constant exchange rates.
Despite the volatility in revenue which made it difficult to manage costs, the division reported an adjusted Results in Analytical Services were mixed, with some operating operating profit margin of 10.6%, down 40 basis points on the segments delivering good results and others performing less prior year.
Revenue increased in upstream oil and gas services, and in downstream chemicals and materials testing, but declined in The overall reduction in manufacturing volumes in the downstream pharmaceutical and speciality chemicals.
chemicals and materials markets, combined with the upheaval in the global pharmaceuticals markets, made 2009 a particularly challenging Much of Interteks upstream services support the exploration, and volatile year.
We see signs of improvement in 2010, with production and transportation of hydrocarbon reserves.
Although evidence of recovering manufacturing volumes and larger projects crude oil prices remained fairly steady in 2009, most production being commissioned and clients reawakening their interest in facilities implemented aggressive cost reduction programmes where outsourcing.
We are currently considering a number of strategic discretionary expenditure on all non-production critical projects was opportunities which will enhance our future growth.
curtailed or delayed, causing our revenue growth to be lower than expected in one service line.
Downstream chemicals and materials US$350,000 The potential lost revenue per day for one of our pharmaceutical clients if we had not been able to validate their quality control methods within the deadline set by the regulator.
24 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Operating Review Industrial Services Stefan Butz Group Executive Vice President Industrial Services 2009 Change at Change at Also in February, the Group acquired Aptech Engineering Services Financial Highlights m actual rates constant rates which is a US based engineering consulting company specialising Revenue 80.7 77.0% 53.1% in the life management of infrastructure, facilities and equipment.
Adjusted operating profit 6.5 132.1% 91.2% This business has also performed very well in 2009.
Adjusted operating margin 8.1% 200bp 160bp Towards the end of 2009, the market for industrial services was affected by the lack of funding available for capital projects.
What we do Customers either cancelled or delayed projects pending the Industrial Services is a global provider of inspection, testing and stabilisation of world economies and the global capital markets.
This includes management systems certi cation, There are signs that con dence is returning and investment is second-party auditing, supplier evaluation, technical veri cation, increasing but there is little certainty of signi cant improvement conformity assessment, asset integrity management, 3D laser in 2010. scanning and dimensional control management, training, health and safety consulting and greenhouse gas services.
We serve a The market for systems certi cation was challenging, especially in wide variety of industries including oil, gas, petrochemical, power, the automotive sector resulting in reduced demand for our services.
renewable energy, civil and infrastructure, aerospace and medical.
The development of the systems certi cation businesses depends on acquiring scale.
Our performance in 2009 Total revenue in 2009 was 80.7m, up 77.0% 53.1% at constant Although still relatively small, revenue in the health and exchange rates over the prior year.
Organic revenue increased environmental sector grew by over 30%.
The impact of the REACH 22.8% 6.2% at constant exchange rates.
Total adjusted operating legislation has been minimal to date as only pre-registration pro t increased to 6.5m, up 132.1% 91.2% at constant exchange has been required.
However the next registration deadline is rates.
Organic adjusted operating pro t increased 80.0% 38.5% 1 December 2010 so, providing this is complied with, we expect at constant exchange rates.
The adjusted operating margin was growth in 2010.
The compliance requirements are complicated and 8.1%, up 200 basis points on the prior year.
we anticipate a surge in interest ahead of the deadline.
Other green initiatives from government to reduce greenhouse gas emissions The Industrial Services division reported good organic growth which will also create further opportunities for Intertek to advise clients was further enhanced by successful acquisitions.
In February 2009, on how best to meet these regulatory challenges.
the Group acquired the WISco group of companies, which provide global technical inspection and expediting support to a wide range of customers in the oil, gas, petrochemical and power generation industries and their supplier markets.
The successful integration of the acquisition has had a positive impact on organic growth through enhanced management and economies of scale.
Ef ciency Using sophisticated data capture and scanning technology a leading energy client, operating in the Gulf of Mexico, was delighted to be able to save on cost, release supply vessels and become operational ahead of schedule.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 25 Minerals Marc Hoffer Division Executive Vice President Minerals 2009 Change at Change at Our performance in 2009 Financial Highlights m actual rates constant rates In 2009, total revenue was 46.7m, up 6.6% down 4.9% at Revenue 46.7 6.6% 4.9 % constant exchange rates over the prior year and organic revenue Adjusted operating profit 4.0 21.6 % 32.2 % increased by 3.8% down 7.4% at constant exchange rates.
Total Adjusted operating margin 8.6% 300 bp 350 bp adjusted operating profit decreased to 4.0m, down 21.6% down 32.2% at constant exchange rates.
Organic adjusted operating profit decreased by 18.8% down 29.1% at constant exchange What we do rates.
The adjusted operating margin was 8.6%, down 300 basis The Minerals division offers analytical testing, inspection and points on the prior year.
mine-site laboratory services to the worlds minerals, exploration, ore and mining industries.
We provide a wide range of analytical The difficult trading conditions in the minerals and industrial services for materials including precious metals, base metals and markets which started in the second half of 2008, continued their raw content, such as iron ore, bauxite, coal and coke, as through 2009.
Although volumes have returned to almost well as bulk commodities.
We also provide marine and inspection pre-recession levels in some locations, overcapacity in the industry services of minerals shipments.
has resulted in increased price pressure.
The revenue growth in facilities we established in 2008 has been steadily increasing, albeit at a slower rate than originally anticipated.
The price of commodities such as gold, uranium and other strategic metals remains high and this should encourage increased exploration by the established mining companies.
The junior companies are likely to remain inactive until the capital markets recover and funding restrictions are eased.
We have the expertise and capacity to take advantage of an upturn in activity and as we currently have a very small share of the available market in the minerals industry, even in a declining market we anticipate being able to grow revenues by gaining market share from competitors.
We have reduced our costs and will concentrate on improving our margin in those areas which are underperforming.
Productivity & Safety Robotic and automated systems are part of Interteks commitment to increase daily productivity, quality and reduce costs for our clients.
