ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 08 Operating review The UK television advertising market experienced record declines across 2009.
We executed a concerted response which ensured that ITV entered 2010 as a leaner, fitter business, with a stronger balance sheet.
2009 was a very challenging year for ITV.
UK television Further details on the action we have taken to strengthen advertising revenues fell by 9% in the final quarter of 2008 the balance sheet are set out in the Financial review.
and weakened further across the first half of 2009, with ITV Cost savings advertising revenues falling by 15%.
Such was the level of Across the three years to the end of 2008, ITV delivered market uncertainty, even then we could not be confident 40 million in cost savings.
In the face of the economic that we were at the bottom of the downturn.
downturn, we committed to new savings of a different Given our high levels of financial and operational gearing, order of magnitude, with a target of 155 million for 2009.
ITV rapidly put in place an action plan, with three There are three elements to this cost reduction: regional over-arching priorities.
programming: network programming: and efficiencies First and foremost, we needed to stabilise the finances of the off-screen.
business to ensure that we could weather the economic storm.
In regional programming, we reduced costs by 44 million.
Secondly, we needed to reduce our costs.
We set out plans We did this whilst maintaining service quality by simplifying to deliver savings in 2009 equivalent to 9% of our cost base.
the regional map and reducing non-news output, both with regulatory consent.
Further regional savings may be deliverable Thirdly and crucially we were determined to maintain the over time given the political consensus that the cost of our progress the business was starting to make.
Cutting investment licence commitments need to return to balance with reducing or making savings by undermining ITVs long-term health licence benefits.
Additional savings such further deregulation would represent a false economy for our shareholders.
would yield are not included in our savings targets.
A year on, with some greater stability in the market, we have We reduced network programming costs by 75 million during delivered tangible progress against each of these objectives.
Our investment in original programming remained Cash and the balance sheet substantial at 540 million, but reduced year-on-year by With television advertising accounting for almost 70% of ITV almost 70 million.
Nonetheless, ITV1 performed well, reducing revenue, we had to work hard to ensure that the downturn share of commercial impact decline compared to 2008 and did not put undue pressure on cash and debt levels.
launching a number of successful new series, including Law & Order: UK, The Cube, Above Suspicion and Whitechapel.
Whilst our EBITA before exceptional items reduced slightly, we managed stock levels tightly and increased our adjusted Off-screen we delivered 50 million of savings.
Staff headcount cash flow by 200 million.
As a result, we reduced our net debt was reduced by over 1,200 posts and we closed operations where by over 100 million at the year end.
further investment could no longer be justified.
We have also simplified our structure by integrating our Online business with We have also ensured that our debt is repayable over a longer Broadcasting.
We are seeking to dispose of the joint venture timeframe.
We raised around 250 million of new borrowings Screenvision US and have agreed to sell Friends Reunited, subject repayable over five to ten years, including a convertible bond.
We reduced our 2011 debt repayment by nearly 90%.
All our debt is covenant free and cash on the balance sheet is In total across 2009, we exceeded our target and delivered sufficient to cover all repayments to 2015.
These savings have protected our profits in the face of revenue decline, but have also funded Whilst the immediate funding pressure has been reduced, important investments, including high definition, video on challenges remain.
The pension deficit has increased, reflecting demand and other emerging platforms and services, which will actuarial changes.
We are actively managing this risk, reducing continue into 2010. liabilities by 110 million through benefit changes.
The next major funding valuation is due in 2011. Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 09 John Cresswell Interim Chief Executive Core operating performance With respect to cash and the balance sheet, we will look to In 2008 ITV held its share of audience and advertising, maintain profit to cash conversion in excess of 90% on a rolling whilst establishing its online video proposition and growing three year basis.
We will continue to manage our balance its international production revenues.
As important as it sheet and our interest costs, whilst seeking to further fide-risk was to reduce our cost base and to stabilise our finances, the pension liability.
we were determined to maintain this operational momentum We are continuing to keep a tight rein on costs, with the into 2009. review of licence payments and the next stage of regional In fact, with our focus on delivery unwavering, we succeeded news reform offering further potential upside.
in delivering further progress during the year across all of But whilst we have made progress and are clear on our our key business areas.
short-term priorities, the business continues to face some As well as holding our audience share once again, we increased considerable challenges over the longer term.
our share in peak viewing hours.
We started to win back share Whilst we are seeing year-on-year growth in the market in of the television advertising market from our competitors.
early 2010, the outlook for UK television advertising remains Online viewing of catch-up programming and clips started to uncertain.
ITV needs to look to protect its performance and achieve consistent scale, driving revenue growth.
profits from the impact of advertising volatility by developing Our studios business continued to grow its external revenues, alternative revenue streams.
Online, we need to be exploiting leveraging successful UK productions overseas, and in a tough fully our deep programming archive, as well as catch-up and market context held its profits year-on-year.
ITV Studios needs to deliver successful new international formats, which will drive margin improvement alongside Further details of the operating progress made in 2009 are revenue growth.
set out over the following pages.
Such issues are being addressed in a strategic review which 2010 and beyond is now underway.
In the meantime, with a strong operating As set out in the Forward look on page 26, 2010 will be another performance, a lighter cost base and a number of key challenging year for ITV.
But we are focused on delivering commercial rivals under pressure, ITV is well positioned to further progress against our stated priorities.
take full advantage if the stabilisation in the market continues In terms of our core operating performance, we will seek to and we start to see a sustained economic recovery.
continue to hold our broadcast audiences and advertising I am confident that the progress we have delivered over the market share, whilst building our online reach.
The breadth past year in an unforgiving market context means that ITV of our service offering will increase with the planned launch is a leaner and fitter business in early 2010 than it was going of an ITV1 HD service and ITV1 1, and continuing progress into the downturn in late 2008.
ITV now has a stronger towards bringing the Project Canvas video on demand service platform to effect what will need to be an even more radical to market.
Our ITV Studios business has secured an extended transformation of the business over the next several years.
pilot deal with ITV channels and will look to leverage its UK successes in the international market.
John Cresswell ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 10 x Joanna Lumley: Catwoman x Whitechapel x Emmerdale ITV1 ITV1 x ITV1 ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 11 x Britains Got Talent ITV1 Britains Got Talent final attracted an audience of 20 million viewers ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 12 x What Katie Did Next ITV2 ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 13 x The Xtra Factor x Tour fide France x Ladies of Letters ITV2 ITV4 x ITV3 1 billion invested in programming across the ITV family of channels ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 14 x England World Cup quali ers 150% rise in itv.
com video views year-on-year ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 15 x This Morning x Dancing on Ice x Coronation Street x ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 16 x The Prisoner x Hells Kitchen USA ITV1 AMC Fox ITV Studios Global Entertainment represents 35,000 hours of content ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 17 x Kndisdjungeln x Popstar to Operastar TV4, Sweden ITV1 ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 18 Broadcasting & Online In a tough market, ITVs channels outperformed their commercial competition in terms of viewing and advertising share.
ITVs core online service, itv.
com, grew its users, video views and revenues.
UK advertising came under considerable pressure during 2009, ITVs outperformance in revenue terms across 2009 reflected with total revenues declining by 13%.
Total UK television a positive negotiating round with advertisers, after ITV held advertising revenues declined by around 11%, slightly increasing its viewing share across all its channels in 2008.
In addition, their share of the total advertising market to around 24%.
ITV was well positioned to compete for late monies as ITVs Growth in UK online advertising revenues was more muted than channels again held their viewing share in 2009.
In peak recent years at around 3%.
Nonetheless online advertising now viewing hours, ITVs channels actually increased their share accounts for nearly a quarter of total UK advertising spend.
ITV outperformed the wider television advertising market This increase in peak share was delivered despite the continuing significantly over 2009.
As a result, although ITVs television pressure on ITV1 viewing from rising digital penetration.
advertising revenues declined by 9%, ITVs share of the total During the year around 1.2 million UK homes converted market increased from 43.8% in 2008 to 44.7%.
This increase to digital multichannel.
Three UK regions the Borders, the followed ITV holding its market share year-on-year for the West Country and the North West completed their transition first time in over two decades in 2008. to digital, with analogue transmission ceasing.
Across the UK, by the end of 2009, around 95% of viewers were in multichannel Across the year, there was considerable market volatility.
homes, with the remaining 5% due to convert by the conclusion Over the first half, ITV net advertising revenue NAR was of switchover in 2012. down 15%, with year-on-year decline easing to 11% in the third quarter.
In the final quarter ITV NAR actually increased The main terrestrial channels, including ITV1, experience year-on-year, with revenues in December up by 14%.
viewing share decline as homes convert to multichannel.
However, this effect is easing as the UK approaches 100% digital penetration.
Since 2006, growth in viewing to ITVs digital Quarterly change in net television advertising revenues channels has offset decline in ITV1 viewing share.
10% Of the different television platforms available to viewers, digital terrestrial television, predominantly Freeview, accounts for 39% of primary set reception, around the same level as satellite, which is largely subscription but includes Freesat.
Digital cable which is exclusively pay-TV accounts for a further 13% of 0% homes.
A small number of UK homes also subscribe to smaller pay-TV operators, including Top Up TV and BT Vision.
UK television viewing levels remained flat in 2009, with the average adult watching four hours of television a day.
With the BBC losing share, viewing of commercial television registered a 10% small increase, rising by 1% compared to 2008.
ITV channels delivered 326 billion commercial impacts individual adult viewings of 30 second television commercials an increase of 1% over the previous year.
However, the volume 20% of commercial impacts across the market increased by 4%, Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 reflecting increased commercial viewing and more viewing of digital channels carrying a higher volume of advertising.
UK TV advertising market ITV channels As a result, ITVs channels share of commercial impacts was down slightly year-on-year at 40.0% 2008: 41.0%.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 19 ITV1s soaps continued to deliver robust ratings.
Coronation ITV1 Street averaged 9.2 million viewers 2008: 9.5 million, well On-screen performance ahead of Eastenders on BBC1.
Emmerdale averaged 6.7 million Across 2009, ITV1 delivered a 16.6% share of total UK viewing 2008: 6.9 million.
ITV1s share of commercial viewing Alongside the soaps, ITV1 delivered a number of highly excluding the BBC was 26.6% 2008: 27.8%.
BBC1, BBC2 and successful new 9.00 pm dramas.
Whitechapel was the highest Channel 4 all suffered greater proportionate declines than ITV1.
rating new drama on any channel since 2006.
Collision was ITV1 performed particularly strongly in peak viewing hours stripped across a week and peaked with 8.4 million viewers.
ITV1 delivered a 23.7% peak Law & Order: UK, a British version of the highly successful and share overall 2008: 23.9% and a 37.7% share of commercial long-running US series, delivered an audience of 7.0 million.
Again, ITV1s main terrestrial In total, seven of the UKs top ten new dramas across the year rivals all suffered proportionately greater declines.
ITV1 delivered were on ITV1, with a number of the most successful including nearly double the share in peak of Channel 4 and Five combined.
Whitechapel, Above Suspicion and Law & Order: UK returning in 2010.
Share of commercial impacts is an important measure for advertisers as it represents the proportion of all viewing of UK Top ten new dramas on UK television commercials delivered by a channel.
ITV1s share of commercial Audience impacts in 2009 was 28.4% 2008: 30.0%.
Across upmarket Title Channel million ABC1 viewers and younger 1634 year old viewers, ITV1 Whitechapel ITV1 9.3 outperformed both its main commercial rivals, Channel 4 Collision ITV1 8.4 and Five, year-on-year.
Above Suspicion ITV1 8.0 Programming Unforgiven ITV1 7.8 The foundation of ITV1s strong viewing performance in 2009 Murderland ITV1 7.3 was a raft of successful new and returning programming, The Day of the Trif ds BBC1 7.0 within a significantly reformed schedule architecture.
Although Law & Order: UK ITV1 7.0 the programme budget was reduced by 12% year-on-year, Demons ITV1 6.3 ITV1 invested over 850 million in programming, including Hope Springs BBC1 6.3 540 million in original UK commissions.
ITV1 maintained Hunter BBC1 5.8 its spending on entertainment, but trimmed investment in drama, with a focus on the soaps and 9.00 pm drama.
In comedy, a third series of Benidorm, with episodes extended In entertainment, ITV1 had an exceptional year with each of to an hour, delivered an average audience of 6.5 million.
its four main entertainment events Dancing on Ice, Britains Harry Hills TV Burp returned for a ninth series and averaged Got Talent, The X Factor and Im A Celebrity building their 6.7 million viewers.
The final of the third series of Britains Got Talent The best performing sports programme on ITV1 in 2009 was peaked with a 75% audience share, and was the most watched the UEFA Champions League final between Manchester United non-sports programme on UK television for over five years.
and Barcelona, which peaked with 10.6 million viewers.
Other In its sixth series, The X Factor introduced auditions before high performing sports programming included the FA Cup a live audience and split its final stages over Saturday and and England home internationals.
The result was its most successful series to date with the final attracting 19.3 million viewers.
Given the pressure on the programming budget, the ITV1 schedule included a greater emphasis on lower cost factual Outside the four big franchises, entertainment successes programming.
Strong factual performers included Piers Morgan included Piers Morgans Life Stories, All Star Mr & Mrs, on, Martin Clunes: Islands of Britain and Billy Connolly: The Royal Variety Performance and Ant & Decs Saturday Journey to the Edge of the World.
The best performing factual Night Takeaway.
ITV also launched a successful new programme in the year was Dancing on Ice: The Story of Bolero entertainment format for Saturday nights, The Cube.
which attracted an audience of 7.7 million viewers.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review Broadcasting & Online 20 Daytime programming delivers over 20% of total ITV1 viewing.
The ITV1 networks viewing figures across the year were During 2009, This Morning relaunched with Holly Willoughby negatively impacted by the underperformance of the joining the presenting line-up and a range of editorial changes.
independent ITV1 licensee, STV Group plc.
STV increased its Ratings for the show improved with audiences in 2009 up 8%.
level of opt outs from ITV1 dramas, including The Bill and Other key daytime titles, The Jeremy Kyle Show and Loose Doc Martin, and reduced its financial contribution to the Women, held their audience shares on 2008.
STVs share of commercial impacts fell by 12% across the year.
In November 2009, ITV acquired the remaining 25% of GMTV held by Disney.
Full ownership of the breakfast franchise will Revenues allow greater integration and cross-promotion between ITV1 ITV1 television advertising revenues were 993 million, down and GMTV.
Across 2009, GMTV held its audience share at 1.2% 12% on 2008.
Compared to recent years, ITV1 revenue growth 2008: 1.2%.
ran much closer to the overall market, where revenues were down 11%.
ITV reduced its investment in regional programming to 68 million 2008: 112 million, as Ofcom approved The 2009 revenue performance was achieved despite the modernisation of ITVs regional news services.
Nonetheless continuing impact of Contract Rights Renewal CRR.
CRR allows ITV1s main regional news programmes at 6.00 pm continued advertisers to reduce their commitment to ITV1 in line with the to deliver an average audience of 3.3 million viewers 2008: channels share of commercial impact decline in the previous 3.4 million.
ITV1s share of commercial impact decline in 2008 was 6%.
However, 2009 ITV1 NAR decline ran relatively close to the National and international news remains a key part of the ITV1 overall market decline, reflecting a strong on-screen performance schedule.
ITV invested in a significant marketing campaign to and a successful outcome to the advertising deal round.
support a relaunch of its national news programming during the year.
News at Tens average audience increased by 6% The Competition Commission undertook a review of CRR during compared to 2008.
Across the year, ITV1s main news 2009 and, in early 2010, provisionally ruled that CRR should be programmes delivered an average daily reach of 7.8 million, maintained.
ITV had argued that CRR should be abolished compared to 1.8 million for Channel 4 News and 1.7 million entirely and the outcome of the review is therefore disappointing.
ITV continues to believe that CRR is a disproportionate remedy with negative consequences extending well beyond ITV.
Average daily news reach The Competition Commission has provisionally concluded that CRR should be amended to permit the inclusion of 8m an ITV1 1 and ITV1 HD service within CRR see Forward look on page 26.
ITVs sponsorship revenues predominantly in connection with ITV1 programming were 59 million in 2009 2008: 6m 58 million.
Sponsorship revenues were considerably more resilient than NAR, reflecting longer term contracts and the value to advertisers of allying themselves with successful ITV programming.
Major contracts in 2009 included esures 4m sponsorship of the National Weather and Harveys sponsorship of Coronation Street.
In addition, ITV secured important contracts for 2010, including Lucozade and Hyundais 2m sponsorship of the 2010 World Cup.
ITVs interactive revenues, primarily raised from competitions and phone voting around ITV1 programmes, were 30 million in 2009 2008: 34 million.
There were almost 100 million 0 viewer interactions, entries to competitions and votes across ITV1 Channel 4 Sky News the year.
The X Factor final alone generated over 10 million votes, up 28% year-on-year.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 21 ITV3 Digital channels ITV3 is aimed at an upmarket audience, with a schedule ITVs family of digital channels ITV2, ITV3, ITV4 and CITV put including repeated ITV drama, acquired programming, films in another strong performance in 2009.
Their combined share and some original programming.
of viewing was 5.3%, compared to 4.3% for the BBCs digital In 2009, ITV3 retained its position as the UKs second largest channels and 4.1% for the Channel 4 digital family.
multichannel station in terms of commercial impact share, ITVs digital channels are broadcast free-to-air on Freeview, with a share of 3.4% 2008: 3.1% and impact volumes up digital satellite and cable and are entirely funded by advertising by 16% year-on-year.
Notwithstanding wider market weakness, Across the year, 241 ITV3 programmes achieved an audience ITVs digital channels increased their television advertising of more than 500,000, compared to 147 programmes in 2008. revenues by 1% to 245 million, raising their share of the total ITV3 had its best ever programming performance in 2009 with UK television advertising market to 8.5% 2008: 7.5%.
Across the Ladies of Letters delivering 1.3 million viewers and an 8.2% year, ITVs digital channels generated more advertising revenue viewing share.
Other successful programmes included Lewis than the UKs third largest commercial channel, Five.
and Poirot, which both had episodes with audiences of over Although ITVs digital channels delivered increased viewing, 1.0 million.
advertising revenues and share across 2009, investment in programming for the channels was held at 110 million Top ten UK digital channels by share of commercial impacts 2008: 112 million.
This reflects ITVs strategy of seeking to contain its programming costs.
5% ITV2 ITV2, together with a timeshifted sister service, ITV2 1, 4% is particularly targeted at the younger 1634 year old demographic, with a schedule including a mix of original commissions, spin-offs from ITV1 programming, movies, 3% US acquired series and repeats.
In 2009, ITV2 retained its position as the UKs top multichannel station in terms of its share of commercial impacts, with a 2% 12% increase in adult commercial impacts translating into a 4.3% share of total market impacts.
ITV2 increased its share of viewing to 2.4% 2008: 2.1%.
1% Impacts across ITV2s target younger audience increased by 15% on the previous year, with ITV2 overtaking the terrestrial channel Five in this commercially valuable demographic.
0% ITV2 also delivers more upmarket impacts than any other ITV2 ITV3 E4 Dave More4 Sky1 ITV4 Living Virgin1 Five USA UK digital channel and improved its audience profile further during 2009 with ABC1 impacts increasing by 13%.
ITV2 had a number of programming successes during the year.
The Xtra Factor attracted the channels highest ever peak audience of 3.5 million viewers, ahead of the Britains Got More Talent final episode which peaked at 3.3 million viewers.
Other programming successes included Peter Andre: Going It Alone, which peaked with 2.4 million viewers.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review Broadcasting & Online 22 ITV4 Freeview, Freesat and Project Canvas ITV4 targets young male viewers, with a schedule including live ITV is a shareholder in Freeview, which markets the highly football, darts, Tour fide France cycling, classic repeated drama successful UK free-to-air DTT platform.
By the end of 2009, and US acquisitions.
Freeview was the primary means of television reception in ITV4 grew its impacts by 8% in 2009 and was the UKs seventh 10.1 million UK homes, with a further 5.9 million homes using largest multichannel station in terms of commercial impact Freeview on one or more non-primary sets.
share, with a 1.5% share of commercial impacts.
ITV is also a joint venture partner in Freesat, which markets ITV4s top performing programme of the year was the UEFA subscription-free digital satellite television.
Freesat was launched Cup match between Manchester City and Hamburg, which in early 2008 by ITV and the BBC to provide free-to-air access attracted a peak audience of 2.7 million viewers and averaged to digital satellite, including HD services from the BBC and ITV.
The top non-sport programme By the end of the year, subscription-free digital satellite on ITV4 was the action movie Crank, which attracted a peak was the primary means of television reception in 0.7 million audience of 1.0 million viewers and a 10% share.
CITV ITVs backing for Freeview and Freesat reflects ITVs strategy CITV is ITVs channel for younger viewers and features a range to future-proof the digital platforms on which ITVs family of of UK and imported childrens programming.
In 2009, CITVs channels performs strongest.
Consistent with this strategy, share of commercial impacts for children increased by 6% ITV is also a partner in Project Canvas, which aims to set a to 3.1%, with its volume of childrens impacts up by 6%.
standard for on demand services delivered via internetconnected set-top boxes and televisions.
SDN Project Canvas will allow all digital viewers free-to-air as well SDN is a digital terrestrial television DTT multiplex operator as pay access to video on demand programming on the wholly owned by ITV.
SDN earns revenues by leasing out television set.
ITVs partners in the project include the BBC, capacity on the DTT platform to channel providers, generally BT, Five, Channel 4 and Talk Talk.
Having been provisionally on long-term contracts.
Channels carried on the SDN multiplex approved by the BBC Trust in late 2009, preparations for include QVC, Five and CITV.
the launch of Project Canvas are continuing.
SDN holds one of six digital terrestrial multiplex licences.
Year end penetration of UK television platforms During 2009 the licence was renewed by the regulator Ofcom and the second licence term runs to 2022.
No spectrum fee 40% is payable until the end of 2014 at the earliest.
In 2009, SDN revenues increased by 33% to 44 million, reflecting improved terms for a channel contract renewed in early 2009 and the accommodation of a tenth broadcast 30% channel from May 2009.
Having considered the sale of SDN earlier in the year, in October 2009 ITV announced that preliminary discussions had been 20% opened with the Trustees of the ITV Pension Scheme over a partnership arrangement under which SDN would provide asset backing to the pension scheme.
Such a partnership could serve to reduce the pension deficit on a funding basis, with ITV 10% continuing to consolidate SDNs revenues and cash flows.
Discussions regarding this proposal are continuing.
0% Freeview Pay Cable Analogue Freesat Satellite Terrestrial Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 23 Video on demand deals with Virgin Media and BT Vision allow Online their combined 3.5 million subscribers access to hundreds of The UK online advertising market continues to grow as hours of ITV content via their televisions on an on demand broadband penetration has reached 70% of UK households.
ITV also has a partnership with iTunes which makes With faster broadband connections, the demand for online ITVs programming available for paid-for download.
video has increased and a number of new online video services Early in 2009, the Competition Commission blocked Project have been launched.
Digital cable subscribers can already Kangaroo, the proposed joint venture between the BBC, ITV, access services, including ITV Player, via their television.
Channel 4 and Five to deliver an online video archive service.
New services, such as Project Canvas, promise to accelerate Since that decision, ITV has been pursuing alternative means further the convergence of online video on demand and of exploiting its extensive video archive via itv.
ITVs focus has been on building the reach of its online video During 2009, the online division was integrated into ITVs services delivered via itv.
com and a number of partnerships.
wider broadcasting operations, generating significant savings.
com unique users averaged 8.7 million per month, As with ITVs existing digital channels, there is an opportunity increasing by 33% on 2008.
Online video viewing of ITV to leverage ITVs investment in content and ITV1s crossprogramming has also continued to grow rapidly.
Including promotional power to drive traffic and revenues to online catch-up and short form clips, video views across the year on and on demand services.
com totalled 215 million, up 150% from 2008.
Both metrics peaked in May, with Britains Got Talent boosting unique Online revenues totalled 37 million in 2009, up 3% on 2008. users to 12.8 million and video views reaching 50 million Excluding Friends Reunited, itv.
com revenues were 24 million, for the month.
The largest single element of itv.
com revenues is accounted for by video advertising, with the balance including Average monthly itv.
com unique users payments from video on demand deals with pay-TV platforms.
Friends Reuniteds revenues declined by 28% to 13 million, 10m impacted by the decline in online display advertising prices 8.7m and the loss of subscription revenues from the core reunions site following its relaunch in 2008.
8m In August 2009, ITV announced that it had agreed to sell Friends 6.5m Reunited to Brightsolid for 25 million.
The proposed disposal 6m is currently being reviewed by the Competition Commission.
5.0m 4m 2m 0 2008 2007 2009 ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 24 ITV Studios 2009 was a challenging year for the UK and international UK Production television production market.
The economic downturn Internal revenues, largely commissions for ITV1, fell by impacted demand for original production from broadcasters.
The reduction in internal With their own advertising revenues falling, commissioners commissions partly reflected a reduction in ITV1s budget.
sought to apply downward pressure on producers prices However ITV Studios share of ITV1 commissions fell to 47% and margins or replaced original commissions with cheaper in 2009, compared to 51% in 2008. acquisitions and repeats.
The most significant reduction in internal commissions was in Despite the downturn amongst its broadcast customers, ITV drama, with a number of established titles, including A Touch Studios increased its external revenues by 9% to 335 million of Frost and Heartbeat, not broadcast or transmitted in shorter 2008: 306 million.
However, overall revenues fell by 4% runs.
In other cases, including Alberts Memorial and Identity, to 597 million 2008: 622 million, reflecting a significant transmission has been delayed into 2010.
Nonetheless ITV reduction in internal ITV commissions.
Following a similar Studios continued to deliver more ITV1 drama than any other pattern of increased external revenues and reducing producer, with returning titles including Lewis and Blue Murder, ITV commissions the previous year, for the first time in and new commissions including Gunrush and The Fattest Man 2009 external revenues represented the majority of overall in Britain.
Entertainment commissions for ITV1 also reduced, but included EBITA before exceptional items was held at 91 million Im A Celebrity, Dancing on Ice and The Krypton Factor.
2008: 90 million, with efficiency savings, international Two new shows The Fuse and The Chase were delivered growth and some exchange rate gains offsetting lower under an ITV pilot deal, which is being extended in 2010. internal supply.
With ITV1s programme budget under pressure, more cost ITV Studios: Shifting composition of revenues effective factual programming has been a focus.
ITV Studios deliveries included Real Crime, Airline and Countrywise.
2009: 597m ITV Studios also continued to produce the key pillars of International production ITV1s daytime schedule, including The Jeremy Kyle Show, This Morning, Loose Women and 60 Minute Makeover.
ITV Studios two soaps Coronation Street and Emmerdale remained ITV1s most effective ratings drivers over the course UK production Distribution and exploitation of 2009.
Coronation Street reached its 7,000th episode in January 2009 and celebrates its 50th birthday in 2010.
Trading conditions beyond ITV were tough with other UK broadcasters also cutting programme budgets.
Reflecting International production these trends, ITV Studios external UK production revenues 2006: 632m reduced by 15% to 58 million.
However, successful third-party commissions included The Street, Eggheads and University Distribution and Challenge for the BBC, Come Dine With Me and Countdown for exploitation Channel 4 and two new formats for Living, My Ugly Best Friend and Four Weddings.
UK production Resources revenues from ITVs studio facilities and postproduction business were 13 million 2008: 17 million, reflecting the decline in UK production activity and closure of studios in Leeds.
ITV Studios won 45 awards in 2009 2008: 61 awards, with winners including Ant & Decs Saturday Night Takeaway, The Street and Loose Women.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 25 Despite the downturn amongst its broadcast customers, ITV Studios increased its external revenues by 9% to 335 million and held EBITA before exceptional items at 91 million.
International Production ITV Studios Global Entertainment ITV has been seeking to diversify its production revenues over ITVs distribution and exploitation business, ITV Studios Global recent years.
International production has been a particular Entertainment, held its revenues broadly flat in 2009 at focus with ITV seeking to move from distributing programming 126 million 2008: 123 million.
This was despite challenging or selling format rights to producing original programming trading conditions, in particular in the UK DVD market, and in local markets for international broadcasters.
In more reflected some benefit from foreign exchange movements.
challenging trading conditions, ITVs international production ITV Studios Global Entertainment represents more than businesses were able to maintain strong growth across 2009, 35,000 hours of original and formatted programming from with revenues increasing by 41% to 138 million including ITV Studios and leading independent producers and distributes some foreign exchange benefit.
to broadcasters in more than 240 territories worldwide.
This growth has been founded on ITVs ability to deliver locally Major revenue earners in 2009 included Coronation Street, adapted versions of proven UK hits to the international market.
Emmerdale, Poirot and Heartbeat, with Australia, Ireland, ITV Studios produced Come Dine With Me originally made Canada, the USA and Scandinavia the major territories.
by ITV Studios for Channel 4 in the UK for VOX in Germany, A new version of The Prisoner, co-produced by ITV Studios for TV4 in Sweden and for Lifestyle in Australia.
During the year, and AMC in the US, will be broadcast on ITV1 in 2010.
ITV produced local versions of Im A Celebrity for NBC in the Major format sales include Come Dine With Me, which has USA, RTL in Germany, Sony Entertainment Television in India been sold to countries including Slovenia, Sweden, Australia and TV4 in Sweden as well as on ITV1.
New ITV Studios format Four Weddings has also The largest of ITVs international production businesses, ITV delivered international format sales following its UK success.
Studios USA, delivered a strong slate of programming including ITV Studios Home Entertainment markets a portfolio of over Hells Kitchen and Kitchen Nightmares for Fox, Room Raiders 3,000 television, music, film and publishing titles across formats for MTV and Steven Seagal Lawman for A&E.
including DVD, Blu-ray, and downloads in the UK and Alongside ITV Studios existing production offices in Germany, internationally.
Major UK revenue earners included Harry Hills Australia and Sweden, ITV opened a further production base TV Burp, Al Murray: The Pub Landlord, Coronation Street: in Spain and, early in 2010, in France.
Romanian Holiday and Inspector Morse.
Lifetime revenues of ITV Studios formats 200m 150m 100m 50m 0 Im A Celebrity Hells Kitchen Come Dine Dancing on Ice With Me ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Operating review 26 Fo For rw ward ard l lo oo ok k Although the wider economic environment may be more of devices allowing free-to-air access to video on demand stable in 2010, the outlook remains highly uncertain and services via the television, as part of Project Canvas, will ITV faces another challenging year.
Broadcasting & Online With the CRR review completed, Ofcom intends to review In early 2010, the television advertising market has returned the rules on advertising minutage.
Across the first quarter, ITV expects its television Channel 4 and Five is required to broadcast a lower volume of advertising revenues to be up 7%, in line with the wider UK advertising than other UK commercial channels and must sell television advertising market.
ITV believes that it could potentially benefit from greater flexibility with respect to such restrictions.
Into the second quarter, the level of Government spending on UK television advertising may be impacted by the general Ofcom is also set to consult on the limited introduction of election.
However it is hoped that this should be offset by product placement to UK television later in 2010.
While there is the positive impact of the football World Cup.
Whilst ITV uncertainty as to the scale of the market, product placement has limited visibility on advertising beyond the first quarter, represents an opportunity for further revenue diversification.
ITV is seeking to hold its share of the total market for a third The requirement on ITV1 to broadcast regional news services year in succession.
remains a costly obligation which ITV believes is unsustainable in its current form.
Government has confirmed a pilot scheme Forecast change in ITV net TV advertising revenue, 2010 which may see ITV plc relieved of regional news costs in two regions as early as 2010 11 and a framework for external 20% funding of regional news across ITV by 2013.
The Conservative Party opposes these specific proposals, but has also supported a reduction in ITVs public service broadcasting obligations.
16% ITV1 has been required to make payments to the Treasury for its Channel 3 licences, which in 2009 totalled 22 million 2008: 30 million.
An early review of the level of these licence 12% payments is currently underway with new rates expected to be retrospectively applied from January 2010.
8% ITV Studios Trading for ITV Studios is expected to remain tough during 2010, reflecting pressure on commissioning budgets amongst 4% broadcasters worldwide.
Internal commissions will be impacted as ITVs programme budget accommodates additional investment on the football World Cup.
In international 0% production, a number of commissions secured in 2009 are Jan Feb Mar not expected to be recommissioned for 2010, but may return for 2011.
ITV has continued to deliver a stable ratings performance Strategic review in early 2010, with the ITV family maintaining its share of Early in 2010, ITV launched a major strategic review.
The review commercial impacts year-on-year over the first six weeks.
will set out the journey ITV needs to embark on to deliver its Over the same period, ITV1s share of commercial impacts was strategic objectives.
The new Chief Executive Adam Crozier 28.7% 2009: 29.4%, reflecting the success of programming is expected to set out the new strategy for the business later including Above Suspicion, Take Me Out and Dancing on Ice.
As well as the start of the football World Cup, the second quarter includes the fourth series of Britains Got Talent.
Having exceeded its cost savings target for 2009, ITV is continuing to keep a tight rein on costs in 2010, with total Following the Competition Commission review of CRR, ITV schedule costs expected to be flat and further off-screen anticipates launching ITV1 1 and the ITV1 HD channel later in savings in train.
ITV continues to make targeted investment, 2010.
ITV1 1 and the HD services will strengthen ITVs channel in particular to support the launch of ITV1 HD, ITV1 1 and line up and the channel offering on DTT, the platform on Project Canvas.
which ITVs channels perform best.
