Operating review Justin King, Chief Executive Our business is growing because we have responded quickly and effectively to a rapidly changing environment.
Total sales for the year were up 5.7 per cent and like-for-like sales excluding fuel were up 4.5 per cent.
In addition we have continued to drive cost efficiencies offsetting over 75 per cent of cost inflation and delivered further profit growth.
Fixing fundamental parts of our operation through accelerate the development of non-food ranges our Making Sainsburys Great Again MSGA and services, extend the reach of our brand via our recovery programme has placed the business in online and convenience offers, to grow our store a strong position.
Although consumer confidence estate and actively manage our property assets.
in the UK has declined during the year, our performance improved as a result of the strength Our progress in the past four years has made the of the Sainsburys brand and actions we have taken Company a stronger business with a wide customer to adjust our offer to changing customer trends.
We are performing well and have significant opportunities for further growth.
Sainsburys is a long-established company and We expect the current economic environment to celebrates its 140th anniversary this month.
It has remain challenging but our focus on doing a great a heritage of offering customers great products job for customers means we are well positioned to at fair prices, through a variety of economic continue our good progress.
trading periods, and we have developed our offer to compete and grow in what has been a very Operating review challenging period for the UK retail industry.
Sainsburys performance over the past 12 months has been underpinned by the enormous changes Our universal customer appeal and continued made during the MSGA recovery programme.
investment in price and quality have been Sainsburys is now a stronger business having fundamental to our growth, catering for a range delivered four consecutive years of sales growth of changing customer needs and trends.
Over and we continue to build on this strong foundation.
the past 12 months consumers have become Our focus on listening to customers and constantly increasingly savvy and have responded to rises working to improve their shopping experience has in the cost of living by making significant changes enabled us to successfully anticipate and respond to the mix of products they buy.
In an effort to to changing economic conditions during the past manage their household budgets more tightly, 12 months.
The brand has been proven to be people are eating out less and cooking at home both resilient and flexible and we are competing more.
They are shopping around to get the best effectively and growing sales in a particularly prices and deals but also want the best quality challenging economic environment.
they can afford and to stay true to their values.
There has been a considerable change in customer Sainsburys good, better, best product range shopping patterns over the year as consumers hierarchy has provided customers with the flexibility have increasingly felt the need to manage household to change what they buy, rather than where they budgets more carefully.
The grocery sector tends shop.
Customer transactions have grown to over to be more resilient in such conditions as food 18 million a week and basket size has also purchasing is not as discretionary as many other increased.
Further improvements in service levels product sectors, but Sainsburys has still had to and product availability have been achieved and as adapt to changes in how and where consumers customers increasingly compare the value offered want to spend their money.
Our performance in the in different supermarkets they are realising they current economic climate shows we are in touch with can get both great products and fair prices at our customers and capable of responding effectively Sainsburys.
Investment in pricing, improved to their changing needs and wants.
promotions and a range of marketing activities have all combined to significantly improve our This year Sainsburys is celebrating its 140th customers price perception.
anniversary having set up shop in Drury Lane, London in 1869.
The Company was founded on We have continued to invest in our five areas the principle of helping people in poorer parts of of focus outlined on page three, each of which London eat a better diet, despite budget constraints, has delivered over the past year and provides and over the years it has remained true to its value significant opportunities for future growth.
The of offering great products at fair prices with a areas are to build and stretch our lead in food, strong ethical approach to business.
Getting value 6 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Operating review Operating review Operating review continued for money is even more important to consumers The campaign has been incredibly successful and when budgets are stretched.
Basket size has customers also believe they have a better, healthier increased as Sainsburys good, better, best diet when cooking meals at home themselves.
The product range hierarchy, the basis of our universal campaign helps customers save money with simple appeal, caters for the full range of customer needs meal ideas for a family of four, for 5 or under.
As requirements have changed, customers have been able to adapt their shopping Operations and cost efficiency within Sainsburys stores.
We have made significant progress in improving our operational efficiency as a result of the MSGA Over 18 million customers now shop at Sainsburys recovery plan.
Major projects were completed to every week.
Even though they are looking to improve the performance of our supply chain and economise, ethical and environmental concerns are information technology infrastructure and there growing in importance for customers.
Sainsburys was significant investment to realign the customer provides a compelling offer and we take a leading offer.
Ongoing operational improvements now stance on a range of such issues on behalf of ensure we continue to do a great job for customers our customers while still ensuring products are in terms of product availability and service and are competitively priced.
This has been the essence of also delivering cost savings.
Sainsburys brand for 140 years and has relevance in all economic environments.
Today our marketing During the year, cost efficiency programmes have campaigns are based around three themes.
Shop offset over 75 per cent of total cost inflation.
Cost and Save provides customers with competitive inflation was at the top end of our medium-term pricing and a range of promotions.
Switch and expectations of between two and three per cent Save highlights the quality and value of Sainsburys and largely driven by increases in wages, property own-brand products at significantly lower prices and energy costs despite hedging to help smooth than equivalent leading brands and Cook and Save the impact of the latter area of expenditure.
helps customers make their household budgets stretch further with initiatives such as Feed your Efficiency programmes are focused on continued Family for a Fiver and Love your Leftovers.
simplification of operations to deliver better processes and lower costs.
Initiatives across all Customers increasingly compare and contrast the areas of our business are supporting sustained offer available in different supermarkets, and are investment in the customer offer.
New checkout recognising the value they get at Sainsburys.
equipment means faster scanning of items and While further improvements to customer service new printers producing double-sided receipts are and product availability have been achieved, of all quicker and also provide environmental benefits.
the measurements tracked on a regular basis over Over 100 stores now have self-scan tills providing the past 12 months, our price perception metric customers with a choice of check-out options and has seen the biggest improvement.
this year we plan to roll-out self-scan tills to around 100 additional stores.
Shelf-ready packaging The entry level basics range was extended during continues to improve replenishment and further the year and now comprises over 650 products.
enhancements to store labour scheduling have A wider basics products range was also made been completed.
available in a greater number of stores across our estate.
Basics provides a compelling part of In August 2008 Sainsburys opened its flagship Sainsburys own-brand range and is a clear way to green store in Dartmouth, Devon.
This has save money when considerations such as size, shape reduced its overall CO emissions by 54 per cent 2 or product appearance are not a primary concern.
through the use of renewable energy and has New products continue to be added to the range.
reduced energy consumed from the national grid Around two-thirds of the items are under 1 and by over 50 per cent.
Rainwater harvesting has over 200 are under 50 pence.
Around 70 per cent reduced mains water usage by 60 per cent saving of our customers now buy into the range helping around one million litres of mains water every year.
to make basics the Companys fastest growing Most of the energy-saving features identified in sub-brand over the year.
In the final quarter of the Dartmouth are now being replicated in new stores.
year sales were up over 60 per cent year-on-year.
A project was launched in 2007 to further Strong marketing campaigns have played a key role improve the energy efficiency of existing stores.
in showing customers that Sainsburys understands This comprised the roll-out of new technology the challenges they are facing and has solutions and enhanced housekeeping initiatives and is to help them.
In October 2008 the Institute of delivering good pay-back.
Over 200 stores have Grocery Distribution presented us with its Award been completed, saving over 53,000 tonnes of for Consumer Understanding for delivering CO every year as a result.
Stock loss has also 2 innovative and appropriate solutions for customers.
been reduced through investment in security, In particular it acknowledged our Feed Your Family management information and training and for a Fiver campaign, launched in March 2008, further improvements have been made in which recognised the increasing trend towards product availability.
cooking more from scratch and eating at home.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 J Sainsbury plc 7 Operating review continued During 2008 we redefined the role of deputy prices.
This month Sainsburys celebrates its store managers eliminating duplicated activities 140th anniversary.
The Quality perfect, prices and setting out new accountabilities and reporting lower strapline was on the front of the first store lines.
Comprehensive training is supporting the and has remained a guiding principle throughout change so that we continue to grow while Sainsburys history.
The first store stocked just maintaining our customer focus and flexibility.
butter, eggs and milk but provided these at a time The store HR structure has also been streamlined when affordable quality food was scarce.
following the introduction of a shared HR service centre in Manchester in 2008.
The centre assumes The Company pioneered the introduction of some administrative tasks previously undertaken own-label lines in 1882 and our extensive heritage within store and provides an online recruitment provides customers today with a unique proposition service allowing store HR colleagues to focus in Sainsburys own-brand products.
Over the years more time on mentoring, training and leadership.
we have led the way on ingredient standards and product innovation and the quality of Sainsburys In January 2009 we announced plans to restructure own-brand products is widely recognised.
Red our store support centre in London, cutting out Label tea is the oldest own-brand product still sold duplication of activities and simplifying structures today and became Fairtrade in 2007.
Customers have across our Holborn, Manchester and Coventry increasingly looked to own-brand products during support teams, aligning them for the future growth the year to help them save money and they have of the business.
The new structures were in place unrivalled trust in Sainsburys own-brand products.
by the start of the 2009 10 financial year.
Within our own-brand product ranges three tiers There have been significant improvements within defined as good, better, best are offered via the distribution network which are delivering the basics, standard Sainsburys and Taste the cost savings.
The introduction of a new transport difference sub-brands.
All tiers must adhere to management system and processes are helping Sainsburys stringent policies concerning ingredients improve overall supply chain efficiency, reducing and sourcing so customers can be confident of the requirement for temporary facilities at peak the Companys attention to quality while ensuring trading periods, and the benefits of investments products are tasty and as healthy as they can made in the previous financial year are now coming be.
Sainsburys front of pack multiple traffic light through in lower costs.
Our Waltham Point depot nutritional labelling is also applied to all relevant has now been reconfigured and new facilities products, including basics, to help customers have been opened in North Yorkshire and Kent make easy, healthy and affordable choices at to support our ongoing growth.
To keep pace with a glance.
Sainsburys has been advocating and the development of non-food, distribution of these supporting the use of colour and guideline daily ranges has transferred to a 350,000 sq ft site at amounts for four years as recommended by the Tamworth.
Our depot in Corby, Northamptonshire, Food Standard Agency, after extensive research, is currently undergoing refurbishment and will in April 2009. support the online non-food operation.
Our attention to quality within own-brand product The full-year benefit of many of the initiatives to ranges is supported by competitive pricing.
improve operations and drive cost efficiency will Prices are constantly benchmarked against key continue to come through in the current year and competitors.
Over 450 million was invested during similar programmes are being introduced on an our MSGA programme and investment is ongoing.
Promotions also play an important role in helping to reduce a customers overall spend on everyday items.
In April 2008 we refocused our promotional Strong financial position programme with simple, more family-oriented Sainsburys balance sheet is well supported by deals.
New point-of-sale materials changed the significant property assets and long-dated debt.
look and feel of stores highlighting key offers Retaining ownership of appropriate property assets to customers and a number of market-leading is an important part of the Companys strategy promotions were run over the year.
and the estimated market value of these assets at the year-end was circa 7.5 billion, including the Advertising campaigns communicating value and share of joint venture properties.
In March 2006, quality have helped customers save money without Sainsburys refinanced its debt book with low-cost compromising quality.
Feed your Family for a long-term property-backed finance.
The Company Fiver, one of our most successful campaigns, uses does not require any significant refinancing until a mix of Taste the difference, standard and basics 2018 and in addition to this funding has undrawn products in meal ideas.
It helps customers manage committed facilities which allows flexibility for tighter budgets as they make their own choices to working capital management and investment flows.
substitute individual ingredients to get significantly below the 5 threshold or add more premium Great food at fair prices products if they wish.
Great food at fair prices is integral to our approach to innovating and leading on ingredient standards and product quality while also offering competitive 8 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Operating review Operating review Operating review continued In September 2008, we relaunched our standard Accelerating the growth of own-brand range, which accounts for over 40 per complementary non-food ranges cent of sales, with our Switch and Save campaign.
and services This offered savings of at least 20 per cent when Food remains at the heart of Sainsburys selecting Sainsburys equivalent product over proposition but non-food ranges complement our the leading brand and followed a comprehensive core food offer and are now a signifi cant business appraisal and development programme for the top in their own right.
There has been good growth in 200 products.
In January the campaign focused home and lifestyle and core ranges and the star on basics.
Growth during the four-week campaign performer remains Sainsburys TU clothing range.
was up nearly 80 per cent year-on-year.
All these As household budgets tighten, there are signs that activities have signifi cantly improved customers customers are increasingly appreciating the value price perception of Sainsburys.
offered by supermarket non-food product ranges and choosing them over other specialist retailers.
Taste the difference remains an important part Sainsburys brand values are just as relevant in of the product offer.
In the current economic non-food products as in food.
Products follow the environment the range allows savvy shoppers same principles of quality, value and innovation to make conscious decisions about the quality they and the good, better, best hierarchy.
want for different ingredients and meal occasions.
In particular Taste the difference ready meals The TU clothing brand, launched in are fulfi lling a trend towards customers treating 2004, is the most established part of themselves at home rather than eating out or our non-food offer.
The infrastructure buying more expensive takeaways to eat at home.
supporting TU is now well developed and in-house designers focus on Sainsburys is committed to sourcing British quality and value while tracking the products and we converted a number of own-brand latest developments in fashion and ranges such as sandwiches and chilled ready meals clothing technology.
Fairtrade T-shirts to 100 per cent British during the year, with the are the biggest selling volume line exception of products used for authenticity reasons.
with over two million T-shirts sold in the last year We have also continued to innovate.
Milk in a Bag and over 40 per cent of customers have bought reduced packaging by 75 per cent compared to a TU item over the past year, an increase of around the two-pint plastic bottle and is now available in 20 per cent.
TU was introduced into a further 126 stores.
We also secured the fi first shipment into 20 stores during the year and is now in 290 stores.
the UK of responsibly sourced palm oil RSPO However, less than a third of these stores carry and have converted our entire frozen fi sh range to an extensive range showing the sales potential RSPO certifi ed.
We strive to further animal husbandry standards Other elements of Sainsburys non-food range are and introduced a range of higher welfare meat, in earlier stages of development.
In April 2008, the fi sh and poultry products during the year.
In June TU brand was transferred to our standard home 2008 we launched responsibly-sourced fresh and and lifestyle product range as TU home launched smoked salmon, and in September 2008 a new in two stores.
The full range comprises over 2,000 range of Freedom Food endorsed outdoor-bred kitchen and home products.
The majority of stores pork was introduced and Freedom Food approval now carry varying elements of the range, which was granted for farms supplying Taste the is performing well.
New stores, particularly difference outdoor reared pork.
In August 2008 those over 50,000 sq ft, now offer customers we launched indoor-reared Freedom Food comprehensive non-food ranges.
In April 2008, accredited chicken and in January 2009 Taste the Sydenham in Kent became our largest store at difference Woodland Chicken.
All birds are reared 87,000 sq ft and in November, the fi first two-fl oor in a natural woodland environment and the range store opened in Hayes in Middlesex where 13,000 is independently audited to RSPCA-approved sq ft of TU clothing is situated above TU home and standards.
Sales of RSPCA Freedom Food chicken lifestyle ranges.
are up 130 per cent year-on-year.
Our non-food business is now being run by Luke In February 2009 we became the fi first major Jensen, previously Sainsburys strategy director, retailer to stop selling eggs laid by battery hens.
who was appointed to the new role of managing Two pence from every Woodland chicken and director for non-food in January 2009.
The nonbox of Woodland eggs sold is paid to Woodland food operation is now fully established in our producers to help promote sustainable free-range Non-Food Support Centre in Coventry where farming.
Over 300,000 has already been donated around 450 colleagues provide the support and to the Woodland Trust via this initiative.
Sainsburys infrastructure required for this area of the business.
was awarded the 2008 Compassion in World There is signifi cant opportunity and potential for Farming Good Egg Award, the second year in the growth of non-food ranges as systems and a row, for our work in this area.
support services such as information technology and logistics are developed for the individual specialist areas.
New stores are providing additional Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 J Sainsbury plc 9 Operating review continued sales area for the non-food products and wider during the first half of the year.
In November 2008, ranges are being introduced as stores are we announced plans to significantly accelerate the extended.
The importance and potential of our growth of our convenience operation.
Sixteen non-food business is demonstrated by half of convenience stores opened during the year and 50 our new space being allocated to non-food.
new stores are planned in 2009 10.
A further 100 are planned in 2010 11 and will continue at a similar The performance of Sainsburys Bank continues level each year on an ongoing basis.
Our 50 per cent share of post-tax profit testing different approaches to the convenience for our joint venture financial services operation market in five stores during the second half of the is 4 million for 2008 09 3 million loss in year.
These have been developed from listening 2007 08.
The continued investment in product to customers and centre on two distinct shopping development and customer acquisition is focused missions which characterise the convenience on insurance products, savings and credit cards.
market: food on the move and a local The steps taken during the MSGA programme to neighbourhood mission.
These are providing stabilise Sainsburys Bank have resulted in a tight insight which will be part of the accelerated focus on cost control, tighter risk management and expansion of the convenience operation.
a concentration on commission-based products and growing savings accounts to deliver multiple income Growing supermarket space streams.
This has continued to enable Sainsburys New space growth opportunities are being Bank to make good progress and maintain a strong developed as part of the plans outlined in May and well capitalised balance sheet.
Half the targeted new space growth is set to come from new stores with the balance from Reaching more customers through extensions.
Total new space will be split equally across food and non-food ranges enabling the additional channels continued development of a great food offer Our online food home delivery service continues to via expanded food halls as well as growing total grow.
Ongoing improvement to the service continues non-food space.
Over the three years from March to deliver efficiencies and sales increased by over 2007 to March 2010, more than 12 per cent gross 25 per cent year-on-year through both customer new space will have opened compared to the retention and attracting new shoppers to the service.
original plan for ten per cent growth, for the The operation is now annualising as a 500 million same planned capital expenditure of 2.5 billion business and delivers over 100,000 orders a week.
and with a higher proportion of freehold ownership The service is available to 88 per cent of UK than originally expected.
Over the year an additional 22 stores started running the service taking the total number During the year, 13 supermarkets opened, two of to 169 stores.
We believe there is significant growth which were replacements and a further 13 were potential in our online operation and plan to refurbished.
Twenty-one were extended during the increase capacity in areas of high demand.
year bringing total extensions over the last three years to 54.
Total gross new space was over four Non-food online per cent comprising two per cent from new stores As previously announced, we are planning to and two per cent from extensions.
We successfully complement our in-store non-food offer with a operate a range of store formats and we are now service providing non-food products online.
This is opening and extending existing sites to create on schedule to launch in the first half of 2009 10 stores over 80,000 sq ft.
In October 2008, we and will provide customers with the choice of a opened our largest new store in eight years in range of Sainsburys own-brand and branded Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire.
At 60,000 sq ft non-food products.
this store provides customers with a full range of food and non-food products.
In November 2008 Convenience stores the Hayes, Middlesex store became our first store Convenience is a key part of our strategy and we over two floors and our largest extension having believe there is potential to expand our presence more than doubled in size from 34,000 sq ft to in this market as our service and product offer is 82,000 sq ft. well received in convenience locations, where we complement and operate successfully alongside In 2009 10 we expect to achieve gross new local individual specialist stores.
Significant space growth of over five per cent, including the improvements in operating performance have acquisition of 24 stores from the Co-operative been achieved through the integration with Group.
These are an excellent addition to the our core supermarket business during 2008 and Companys store portfolio being mainly in the west the disposal of 57 stores and one closure during of England, Wales and Scotland where Sainsburys the year which did not fit our convenience is less well represented.
customers will now have a Sainsburys store within a ten-minute drive.
Nineteen of these stores are Under the leadership of Dido Harding, who joined expected to operate as supermarkets.
Sainsburys operating board in March 2008, a review of the convenience business was undertaken 10 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Operating review Operating review Operating review continued The environment for growing space is changing as food retailer we focus on being the best for food opportunities to acquire land for development and and health which is why we are committed to new stores are becoming more available and at sourcing with integrity.
Because we source from more attractive rates than in recent years.
We have all over the world and sell in the UK we have to increased our hurdle rates for property investments show respect for our environment and play an and have also developed our ability to deliver active role in the communities we serve making larger, more cost-effective store extensions and a positive difference to our community.
All this is lower-cost new stores.
We will seek to take full possible through the commitment of our colleagues advantage of the unique opportunities available at so that Sainsburys is a great place to work.
the current time to acquire land and existing sites while ensuring we maintain a broadly stable debt A more comprehensive account of our approach to position.
Capital plans are flexible and constantly corporate responsibility can be found on pages 12-15. reviewed to target expenditure for the best longterm returns.
Succession planning for role of Chairman Active property management Led by senior independent director John McAdam, We believe that ownership of our property assets the Company is currently conducting a search for enables us to retain operational flexibility while a new chairman and will announce the outcome exploiting potential development opportunities and of this process in due course.
The proportion of freehold or long-leasehold property has increased Competition Commission CC and is now at 65 per cent, including half the space We welcomed the CCs finding in its report of 50 per cent owned joint venture properties.
published in 2008 that the UK groceries market We have a significant portfolio of properties with is delivering a good deal for consumers.
In addition to 297 freehold consistent with the significant improvements our and long leasehold properties, the majority of customers have experienced in product quality, which can be extended, there are 43 properties availability, service and price over recent years.
within joint venture JV arrangements.
We are playing a full part in continuing discussions with the CC and other parties, to ensure remedies Sainsburys has two strategic property JVs.
The are implemented in the most effective and first with Land Securities, formed in November efficient way to maintain choice and value for 2007, brings together undeveloped properties and UK consumers.
In April 2009, the CC published development expertise.
One property was added its formal undertaking for the appointment of an to the JV during the year and it now comprises Ombudsman.
We continue to believe the creation five properties planned for future mixed use of this new role to undertake investigations and development.
In March 2008, we created a JV with arbitrate disputes between suppliers and grocery British Land to unlock the significant opportunity retailers will introduce additional, unnecessary to develop a number of our most important stores bureaucracy and cost, will increase the burden and and deliver an improved customer offer.
The JV disruption to retailers and will not be in the best comprises 38 Sainsburys supermarkets with interests of consumers.
One year on, of these 25, two extensions adding 30,000 sq ft have Office of Fair Trading OFT already been completed and ten further projects In April 2008 the OFT started an investigation are now going through the planning consent involving suppliers and supermarkets including process.
These will deliver around 260,000 sq ft Sainsburys on the basis that it had reasonable of additional space in the next few years.
We will grounds to suspect co-ordination of retail prices.
benefit from the enhanced trading performance Sainsburys has strict guidelines for compliance of the extensions as well as retaining a share of with competition law and is co-operating with the increased property value.
the OFT in these enquiries.
The strategy is broadly cash neutral with mature Outlook assets sold to fund development opportunities.
Sainsburys is performing well and has identified During the year a number of key leasehold sites, significant opportunities for future growth in all in addition to the 38 sites within the British Land its five areas of focus.
Our progress in the past four JV, have been acquired for development at a total years has made us a stronger business and we now investment cost of 392 million.
This investment serve over 18 million customers a week with great was funded by the disposal of mature assets product at fair prices.
Sainsburys universal appeal through sales and leaseback transactions gives customers the flexibility to change what including eight supermarkets for 393 million they buy rather than where they shop, helping resulting in a profit of 57 million.
them offset the current constraints on household budgets.
We expect the current economic Corporate responsibility environment to remain challenging but we are With over 18 million customers each week, well positioned to continue our good progress.
Sainsburys has a real impact on UK consumers.
As a leading Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 J Sainsbury plc 11
