12 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Operational review HUNGARY SLOVAKIA An increasingly We have a 25% interest 2009 was a important country for in three exploration JKX, one that saw good licences in the north progress across three east of the country.
Completed: Completed: The acquisition of a operationally, Installation of 108km 2D seismic production facilities and programme to provide tie-in of export pipeline.
valuable information in as we recorded We also acquired all three licence areas.
extensive data and Planned: successfully carried out a number of key The acquisition of drilling operations.
additional seismic data Planned: to firm-up leads achievements.
An increase in identified by earlier production from the programmes.
We Hajdunanas field, anticipate drilling in together with further 2011. exploration drilling.
Svidnik Medzilaborce Snina SL O V AKIA Hernad Nyirseg HUNGARY Veszto Golitza Provadia BUL G ARIA Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 13 BULGARIA UKRAINE RUSSIA We operate two With four production We hold the licence to exploration permits in licences and three redevelop a 34.7km Bulgaria, which include exploration licences, area in the Republic of an onshore extension of Ukraine is the major Adygea.
the Tertiary age focus for JKX activity.
Completed: western Black Sea Completed: We completed a Basin, which is the The ongoing number of workovers subject of renewed development drilling and tests, while also deep water exploration programme was progressing many other activity.
Russian 2P Completed: recompletions and reserves were The acquisition of a stimulations.
reassessed and revised 250km 3D seismic upwards by 7.5%.
Extensive drilling Planned: Planned: operations and Plans include We plan to drill two stimulations are commencing the wells in 2010. scheduled for 2010. construction of the gas We may also reassess production facility our Ukrainian reserves during 2010.
also complete the export line and tie-in to the local trunk line.
Elizavetovskoye Chervonoyarske East Novo-Nikolaevskoye Complex UKRAINE RUSSIA Koshekhablskoye TH H EE B LA A CK CK SE SE A A GEORGIA
