08 Keller Group plc Operating review By focusing on what we do best, we are confident that we will maintain our track record of out-performing our markets over the medium to long term.
The Groups 2009 results held up well, given that most of our markets were severely depressed throughout the year.
Despite a general shortage of contract awards, resulting in intense competition and tighter pricing, good overall contract performance and our firm cost control mitigated the impact on the Groups operating margin.
A strong feature underpinning these results is the ongoing re-balancing of the Group, which over several years has resulted in improved geographical diversification and increased exposure to higher growth markets.
As a consequence, 275m 26% of our 2009 revenue came from Australia and our developing 275m 26% of our 2009 revenue markets, more than four times the level in 2004. came from Australia and our developing Conditions in our major markets markets, more than four times the level Generally, across the world we witnessed a sharp reduction in 2004. in privately-financed construction, whilst investment in public infrastructure remained relatively strong.
This was reflected in our revenue, with infrastructure and public buildings accounting for 47% of our 2009 revenue, compared to 35% in 2008.
In the US, which remains our largest market and where we are market leader, non-residential construction expenditure was down 1 by 5% on the previous year, despite modest growth in public infrastructure spending and, within the private sector, strong growth in investment in power and manufacturing.
However, expenditure in the office, commercial and leisure sector was down by 26%.
This is expected to reduce further in 2010, as the full impact of the much sharper fall in building starts in this sector feeds through into construction spend as a whole.
The residential sector continued to contract, with housing starts falling by a further 39% in the year, although the second half showed an improvement on the first six months.
Taken as a whole, US construction expenditure reduced in the year by approximately 12%.
Within our principal European markets: demand in Poland remained strong: Austria and Germany were flat: whilst France, the UK and, in particular, Spain continued to contract.
Elsewhere, construction activity in our markets in the Middle East was significantly down on 2008, whereas Australia and our Asian markets remained robust.
1 The US Census Bureau of the Department of Commerce, 1 February 2010.
Keller Group plc 09 Strategy, positioning and market drivers Our strategy is to extend further our global leadership in Throughout the world, we expect the growth in specialist specialist ground engineering through both organic growth ground engineering to exceed the growth in general and targeted acquisitions.
There are three key elements to construction, driven over the medium to long term by such our strategy: trends as: transfer of technologies and methods within our current increasing land shortage, driving a need to use geographic regions: brownfield and marginal land: expansion into new, higher growth geographic regions: and climate change, triggering more river and dam flood protection projects: acquisition and development of new technologies and methods.
the prevalence of very large-scale development projects: the need for investment in energy capacity: and We will continue to focus on those sectors where the the renewal of outdated road and rail infrastructure.
barriers to entry are highest and where we have capabilities which give us a clear competitive advantage: In our developing markets, additional drivers, such as bigger and more sophisticated foundation systems, population growth, urbanisation, rapid industrialisation and often requiring specialist equipment: increased overseas trade, are expected to sustain high foundations for safetyand quality-critical environments: levels of investment across the whole construction and spectrum over the medium to long term and we continue to strengthen our position in these regions.
bespoke solutions with a high design content.
By focusing on what we do best, we are confident that we will maintain our track record of out-performing our markets over the medium to long term.
10 Keller Group plc US The result also benefited from jobs as diverse as further work on the levees at New Orleans, soil mixing for new bridge abutments in Utah, vibro replacement and compaction grouting for a large power plant expansion in Florida and jet grouting for a new transit tunnel in New York City.
US Case, McKinney, Anderson and HJ In local currency, revenue from our US operations as a whole was Amongst our US piling businesses, strong performances were down by 26%, whilst operating profit reduced by 48%, mainly delivered by Case and Anderson, despite activity levels slowing reflecting a loss at Suncoast and pressure on margins across down somewhat towards the end of the year.
McKinney had a the US foundation businesses.
In sterling terms, overall revenue satisfactory year, whilst HJ did well to remain profitable, given the was 12% lower, whilst operating profit was down by 38%.
sharp fall off in demand for privately-funded projects in its Florida home market.
In all of these businesses, the headcount has been Hayward Baker reduced to reflect the lower activity levels.
Overall, Hayward Baker had a satisfactory year, responding well to the challenges presented by the sharp downturn in commercial All four have managed to increase their exposure to the growing work.
With offices in 15 states and a wide range of techniques power and renewable energy sectors, from which 27% of their at its disposal, the business is closely tuned into local market combined revenue in 2009 was derived, approximately double conditions and able to respond accordingly.
This is reflected in the the level in 2008.
In addition, HJ worked with the other US variety of work Hayward Baker undertook during the year: from businesses in continuing the expansion of continuous flight augur a design and construct sheet piling and soil mixing contract for piling outside of Florida.
a new shipyard in Louisiana, to a vibro stone column contract for a new hospital in California.
The result also benefited from jobs as diverse as further work on the levees at New Orleans, soil mixing for new bridge abutments in Utah, vibro replacement and compaction grouting for a large power plant expansion in Florida and jet grouting for a new transit tunnel in New York City.
The ability to offer a particularly wide range of solutions has long been one of the hallmarks of this business and in 2009 Hayward Baker added to its product offering wick drains vertical drains which are used for accelerating the consolidation of compressible soils.
The companys first wick drain project was for an extension to an oil refinery in Washington, where an underlying layer of clay needed to be consolidated before construction could begin.
Hayward Baker installed 348,000 linear feet of wick drains to depths of up to 80 feet.
The job was a success and the precursor to several more contracts using this technique during the year.
Further progress was made in integrating Olden, the business acquired by Hayward Baker in October 2008 which, as expected, is proving to be a good fit.
Oldens value-engineering capability has secured several important jobs, such as a large contract for the Texas Department of Transport to install temporary shoring, shotcrete facia and tiebacks for a major road widening scheme.
Keller Group plc 11 Power generation HJ installs continuous flight augur piles The world will need greatly to support solar panel columns for the increased energy supply Florida Power & Light solar power plant in the next 20 years, especially 45% in Florida, US.
projected growth in energy demand from 2006 to 2030 World Nuclear Association, World Nuclear Association, September 2009 September 2009 12 Keller Group plc Flood defence Hayward Baker undertakes critical drilling The impact of climate change and grouting work on the Wolf Creek Dam and urban development could in Kentucky, US, part of a dam safety US$ more than triple the number $14bn programme being undertaken by the US Army Corps of Engineers.
of people around the world budgeted by the US Government exposed to coastal flooding to shore up Louisianas flood by 2070. defences since Hurricane Katrina OECD, December 2007 guardian.
co. uk, June 2009 Keller Group plc 13 Revenue by type of service Revenue by end market Employees 5 4 2,270 4 2008: 2,824 3 2 1 Infrastructure public 1 1 1 Piling diaphragm walls 43% buildings 49% 3 1 2 Anchors nails minipiles 18% 2 Power manufacturing 2 3 Post-tensioning 16% industrial 24% 2 4 Specialty grouting 12% 3 Residential 16% 1 Rest of Group 61% 5 Ground improvement 11% 4 Office commercial 11% 2 US 39% Operations US Our growth compared with the The result for these businesses benefited from some large growth of construction markets contracts, several of which were undertaken by two subsidiaries Highlights in partnership.
These included the installation of foundations for Excellent cash management 2009 Increased exposure to growing the Populus to Ben Lomond Power Line in Utah undertaken by over 1-year 26% 12% power and energy sectors Anderson : the Virginia City Power Plant Case : the Edwardsport over 3-years 16% 20% Good co-operation on large and Power Plant in Indiana Case and McKinney : the BP Refinery in complex jobs 2008 Indiana Case and HJ : a solar power plant in Florida HJ : and Strong results from Anderson a project to widen an existing 10-lane freeway in Arizona Case.
over 1-year 5% 7% and Case over 3-years 36% 3% This Arizona contract is one of many successful jobs performed Definition and method of calculation Priorities for 2010 Year-on-year sales growth including by Case outside of its depressed Chicago home market.
acquisitions in local currency compared with Further exploit large, multi-product A more  business has resulted from the growth in the total US construction market project capability 1 in brackets.
development of its regional offices such that, for the first time ever, Continue expansion of product As our work occurs at the start of the the Arizona regional office generated more revenue than Chicago.
range construction cycle, our revenue is a leading Focus on cash generation and indicator for the construction market, whereas market comparators are based on the lagging Suncoast cost control indicator construction put in place.
With no significant signs of improvement in the residential market Continue to improve safety and environmental performance as yet, and a further decline in demand for high-rise products, Return on net operating assets volume and prices have remained under pressure.
As a result, further cost cutting measures have been taken, with headcount 2009 14% Results summary and KPIs reduced by a further 25% in the year to below 400.
With these 2008 25% Revenue measures and continuous improvements in efficiency over recent Definition and method of calculation 2009 467.0m Operating profit expressed as a percentage of years, Suncoast is well placed to grow revenues and restore 2 net operating assets including goodwill 2008 532.1m margins as the US housing market recovers over time.
Operating profit Staff turnover Foundation contracting businesses 2009 32.2m 2009 3% 2008 52.1m 2008 8% Suncoast Operating margin 2009 12% 2009 6.9% 2008 18% 2008 9.8% Definition and method of calculation The number of managerial, professional and technical staff leaving the division in the period, expressed as a percentage of employees in this category.
1 Data published by the US Census Bureau of the Department of Commerce on 1 February 2010.
2 Net operating assets excludes net debt, tax balances, deferred consideration and net defined benefit pension liabilities.
