In addition to our attention on project Operating execution there has also been a significant focus throughout 2009 on the reduction of Review operating costs and this has resulted in the streamlining of some aspects of our operation to improve efficiency.
From an operational perspective Lamprell oilfield engineering services, including Chris Hand, Chief Operating Officer had a successful year in 2009, with all the upgrade and refurbishment of operating facilities working on a wide land rigs.
The operational aspects of these business During the year Lamprell has continued to activities are reviewed as follows: focus on maintaining its high standards of project execution with particular attention Engineering, Procurement and on safety, maintaining high quality Construction standards and delivering projects both on Throughout 2009 Lamprell continued the time and on budget to all our customers.
construction of and delivered a range of This focus has ensured that Lamprell has major EPC new build projects.
These not only maintained and indeed projects were executed at both our Jebel strengthened its relationships with its Ali and Hamriyah Free Zone facilities.
existing customers, but also added new customers to our expanding client base.
Seajacks liftboats In addition to our attention on project In 2009 we completed the construction of execution there has also been a two harsh environment special purpose significant focus throughout 2009 on the self-propelled four legged jackup liftboats reduction of operating costs and this has for Seajacks.
These turnkey contracts resulted in the streamlining of some were awarded in January 2007 and aspects of our operation to improve covered all aspects of project execution efficiency.
This process will continue from design to delivery.
The first unit, the throughout 2010.
Seajacks Kraken, was delivered in March 2009 and the second unit, the Seajacks During the year Lamprell has continued to Leviathan, was delivered to Seajacks in focus on the execution of EPC new build June 2009.
Both projects were completed USD 61.8m projects, including the construction of on time and on budget.
Gross profit jackup drilling rigs, liftboats and a tender assist drilling unit, whilst continuing our Scorpion S116E jackup drilling rigs traditional rig refurbishment and Throughout 2009 construction continued fabrication projects for the offshore oil at Lamprells Hamriyah facility on the and gas sector.
During 2009 we Offshore Freedom and Offshore Mischief successfully delivered our first EPC LeTourneau design S116E jackup drilling projects and continued to progress other rigs for Scorpion.
The Offshore Freedom was delivered in The principal markets in which Lamprell April 2009 and is now working for the operates, and the principal services Al-Khafji Joint Operation in the Saudi provided are: Arabia and Kuwait ex neutral zone.
EPC new build construction of jackup drilling rigs, liftboats and tender assist The Offshore Mischief hull was launched drilling units: using Lamprells semi-submersible barge, upgrade and refurbishment of offshore Hamriyah Pride, in November 2009 and jackup rigs: the rig is scheduled for final delivery to new build construction for the offshore Scorpion in April 2010. oil and gas sector: and, Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 18 Business review BassDrill tender assist drilling unit The construction of the BassDrill Alpha Lamprell Engineering tender assist drilling unit for BassDrill continued at our Jebel Ali facility throughout 2009.
In October 2009 we launched the tender assist vessel using Lamprells semi-submersible barge, Hamriyah Pride.
The modular mast equipment package was installed and commissioned in December 2009 and the unit was successfully delivered to BassDrill in January 2010.
Upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs During 2009 Lamprell executed refurbishment and upgrade works on a total of 33 jackup rigs.
The rigs, owned by a wide range of international drilling contractors including National Drilling Company, Ensco Offshore International Company, Nabors Drilling International Lamprell provides a wide range of Limited, Noble International Limited, RDC Arabia Drilling Inc. and Atwood Oceanics engineering services to its clients.
These Pacific LTD, were berthed at our Sharjah, services are produced using 3D drafting and Hamriyah and Thailand facilities.
analytical software and include concept Refurbishment and upgrade projects engineering, basic design, detailed and such as these vary greatly in scope from project to project and depend on the construction engineering and the production existing condition of each rig and the owners upgrade requirements.
In addition the project can have a work schedule lasting engineering group provide project a few days, whereas a major upgrade project with a significant engineering commissioning assistance and liaise with requirement can last for 12 months or more.
Typical upgrade and refurbishment various third party authorities who certify projects include some of the following that Lamprells engineering meets the work scopes: leg extensions and or strengthening: relevant standard.
conversion of slot rigs to cantilever mode: living quarters extension, upgrade and refurbishment: engine replacement and repower works: mud process system upgrade and or refurbishment: helideck replacement, upgrade and or refurbishment: and, Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 19
