Operational Review A PRIMARY AREA OF FOCUS FOR THE MINING MANAGEMENT TEAM CONTINUES TO BE ORE RESERVE DEVELOPMENT.
BY THE END OF SEPTEMBER 2009, UNDERGROUND ORE RESERVE DEVELOPMENT AT MARIKANA HAD INCREASED TO 2.0 MILLION SQUARE METRES OF IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE ORE RESERVES.
Market overview All of this reduction related to our decision to close PGM prices declined significantly during the first three production units which were unprofitable.
Of the months of our 2009 financial year, with Platinum production shortfall, 1.2 million tonnes related to the falling to a low of $756 per ounce in October 2008 closure of opencast operations at Marikana and and Rhodium declining to a low of $1,000 per ounce Pandora whilst 0.4 million tonnes were due to placing of the following month.
The steep decline in these the Baobab shaft at Limpopo on care and maintenance prices was almost entirely as a result of a dramatic during the first half of the 2009 financial year.
deterioration in automotive demand during the period, During the year, we took the opportunity to exacerbated by automotive companies fide-stocking, restructure our senior operational management team, the selling of inventories and investor reaction to the in order to create a Technical Services function.
function is responsible for, amongst other things, the PGM prices started to improve in the second life of mine plan, based on input from all areas of the quarter of the year, stabilizing in the following quarter, business, group wide capital expenditure and on the back of strong jewellery and investment providing an important check and balance with regard demand.
Tentative signs of automotive recovery to the technical health of the business.
Chris became evident during the fourth quarter of the 2009 Sheppard, previously EVP Mining, has taken on the financial year, supported by the potentially short term role of EVP Technical Services, and Mark Munroe, impact of the various fiscal stimulus and scrappage who played a crucial role in the implementation of the schemes introduced by governments around the restructuring programme, has been appointed EVP world.
Consequently, further pricing recovery Mining.
Mark is now responsible for safely delivering occurred in that period, with the Platinum price growth in production and the necessary productivity closing at $1,280 per ounce and Rhodium closing improvements from our Marikana mining operations.
Biographical details on Chris and Mark, as well as on However, the strength of the South African Rand the other members of our Executive Committee, can largely offset these improvements in US dollar-based be found on page 54 of this report.
PGM prices, and continued to put pressure on A primary area of focus for the Mining industry margins and cash flows.
Furthermore, the management team continues to be ore reserve South African cost environment remains challenging, development, building on the recent progress made with continued inflation across the mining sector.
At the end of September 2009, Consequently Lonmin management will carefully underground ore reserve development at Marikana balance the need to invest in growth ahead of the reached 2.0 million square metres of immediately upturn whilst at the same time remaining focused on available ore reserves.
Most of our shafts at Marikana maintaining strong financial discipline.
now have appropriate levels of development, but there remains scope for improvement at certain shafts, Mining particularly K3.
It is likely to take another twelve to Our focus on safety remains undiminished.
Our safety eighteen months before we achieve acceptable levels performance continued to improve in 2009, with of available ore reserves, as higher extraction rates actual Lost Time Injuries reported down 8% from will require even greater levels of development 2008 and our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate replacement.
improving slightly to 6.21 per million man hours A number of productivity programmes were worked.
However, it is with regret that we report the instigated by the Mining management team in 2009 death of three of our employees during 2009.
Further which are expected to start to show benefits in 2010. details on our safety performance during the year as These include: well as information on the programmes currently in Initial steps to revise incentive programmes for place to maintain and improve on our historically our productive employees to increase the element strong safety performance can be found in the of variable pay: Sustainable Development Review of this Report.
Total tonnes mined during the 2009 financial year Labour management improvement programmes, were 10.8 million, a 1.6 million decline from 2008. including a number of projects to tackle absenteeism: 10 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Case Study: Saffy Shaft production target of 80,000 tonnes per month by September 2009 achieved Johan Raaths Nicci Engelbrecht Mine Overseer, Saffy Shaft Technical Assistant, Saffy Shaft A year ago, management took the decision to change the mining method at Saffy from fully mechanised to hybrid mining, which entails conventional stoping with mechanised development.
This conversion process has come with some challenges.
Firstly, the shafts development footprint was specifically designed for mechanised mining.
We are rectifying this by upgrading the infrastructure of the shaft, including the installation of ore passes and drop raises.
The mining layout was also designed for mechanised mining, so we are re-aligning it to better suit conventional mining methods.
Finally, we have faced challenges in the recruitment and training of skilled crews to adapt to the change in mining method.
We have built team-work and trust within these new crews, thereby ensuring that Saffys workforce remains stable and maintains the shafts strong safety culture, and we are proud to have achieved our year end production target of 80,000 tonnes per month.
IN 2010 WE EXPECT SAFFY TO CONTINUE TO RAMP-UP TOWARDS PRODUCTION CAPACITY Johan Raaths www.
com 11 Operational Review continued Case Study: Merensky Concentrator achieved 97% plant availability in 2009 Ali Mogale Engineering Manager, Merensky & UG2 Concentrators We have two key performance improvement objectives at the Concentrators firstly, to increase our understanding of the potential of ore being supplied to us by the mines and, secondly, to consistently optimise recoveries.
The first objective is crucial in supporting the second objective.
This year at the Merensky Concentrator we made good progress to achieving these dual objectives, partly through the facilitation of Mission-Directed Work Teams within each area of operation.
A better understanding of the ore potential is being driven by our metallurgical team at the plant to improve management of ore delivery schedules and ultimately to ensure we continue to create the appropriate blend feed for the Smelter.
However, the achievement of this objective is dependent on plant availability and stability, as well as increased spend on plant maintenance.
In 2009, the engineering team at the plant achieved sustained high plant availability, based on consistent equipment reliability and high maintenance standards.
Also at the plant, our production team introduced a number of initiatives during the year to optimise recoveries, including modifying the flow sheet, rationalising the concentrate cleaning process and altering the reagent mix at the flotation stage.
As a result of these initiatives, the plant achieved consistently high underground recoveries during 2009.
WE REMAIN FOCUSED ON ANALYSING ORE POTENTIAL AND OPTIMISING RECOVERIES AT OUR CONCENTRATORS Ali Mogale 12 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc A NUMBER OF PRODUCTIVITY PROGRAMS WERE INSTIGATED BY THE MINING MANAGEMENT TEAM IN 2009 WHICH ARE EXPECTED TO START TO SHOW BENEFITS IN 2010.
Initiation of consultations with the recognised At the end of the 2009 financial year, there were 31 unions to increase the number of shifts worked: stoping crews at Saffy and, by April 2010, we expect to have 45 crews operating at the shaft.
As a result, Removing technical bottlenecks through our we expect production to continue growing towards Half Level Optimisation programme and the shaft capacity of around 200,000 tonnes per month, implementation of operating systems at each which we aim to achieve in 2014.
By that time, we shaft: and anticipate Saffys current workforce complement of Implementation of several initiatives to assist us around 2,300 will have increased to approximately in better managing inspections by the Department 4,000.
Further details on the transition to hybrid of Mineral Resources, including a review of mining at Saffy shaft can be found in a case study relevant procedures and the roll-out of a union on the shaft on page 11. consultation and communication plan relating to Hossy also had a good year, achieving average Section 54 stoppages.
productivity of around 1,500 centares per month per suite of equipment at the end of the 2009 financial We are continuing to run a number of cost-cutting initiatives within the Mining business and strict cost year, in line with our initial targets set in November 2008.
During the year, production at Hossy continued management is embedded at each of our shafts at Marikana.
One such example is the bill of materials to ramp-up to over 60,000 tonnes per month by September 2009, from around 20,000 tonnes in project, introduced in 2009 at every shaft at Marikana.
The project tracks and monitors the purchase and October 2008.
The improvement in productivity at Hossy shaft usage of key consumables against what is expected for the proposed level of production, ensuring greater was a result of substantial management effort and focus to deliver an improved performance during the control of the procurement of these consumables and a better understanding of purchasing and usage patterns.
We made some important upgrades to the way we implement mechanised mining at the shaft.
Firstly, Marikana Mining we increased our focus on equipment availability, with Total Marikana underground production during the better maintenance and quicker repair times being 2009 financial year was the same as 2008 at 10.2 achieved, supported by improved mining standards million tonnes.
The ramp-up in production from our and conditions.
Secondly, we made improvements in mechanised and hybrid shafts was offset by, amongst the utilisation of the extra-low profile equipment, other things, an increase in prevalence and severity focusing on improving operator and supervisors of Section 54 safety shutdowns at our Marikana skills, as well as upgrading management operating operations.
In 2009, we lost around 0.5 million tonnes systems.
Thirdly, we made some significant changes as a result of these shutdowns, compared to around to the shafts mining layout and, as a result, we are 0.2 million tonnes in 2008. starting to see an increase in stoping panels per fleet In 2009 we mined 8.5 million tonnes from our and we expect that to continue in 2010.
Finally, we conventional underground Marikana operations, a upgraded the shafts infrastructure, implementing a decline of 0.6 million tonnes from 2008.
Around half new communication network backbone, installing new of this decline was due to the increase in Section 54 strike conveyors and constructing a new maintenance shutdowns, as outlined above with 80% of the total workshop at the shaft.
tonnes lost due to Section 54 safety shutdowns in 2009 Costs for the 2009 financial year at our core occurring at K3 and Rowland, our two largest shafts.
In underground conventional operations at Marikana addition, around 0.1 million tonnes were lost at our Mining were R466 per tonne, up 14% from 2008.
If Marikana conventional underground operations following we adjust for the additional tones lost due to Section the planned closure of a small uneconomic decline shaft 54s the year on year increment would be 10%.
Costs and a further five half levels at Marikana during the third at our mechanised and hybrid operations at Marikana quarter of 2009.
Finally tonnes were lost during 2009 as for the 2009 financial year were R630 per tonne, a direct result of disruption relating to the restructuring up 3% from 2008.
It should be noted in this context programme completed in March, when a total of 7,000 that the wage inflation for 2009 was 12.5%.
Capital full time employees and contractors left the business.
expenditure during 2009 at our Marikana Mining Production from our mechanised and hybrid division was R1,293 million, the majority of which shafts increased 49% year-on-year to 1.7 million was allocated to Hossy, Saffy and K4.
Saffy performed extremely well, despite the multiple challenges faced by shaft management in Pandora joint venture Our share of production from the Pandora joint converting from fully mechanised to hybrid mining during the year, with the shaft achieving its year end venture ground during the year was 298,000 tonnes mined, a decline of 25% from 2008, as a result of the monthly hoisting target of 80,000 tonnes in September 2009.
It will take a further 18 months for planned stoppage of opencast production at the joint venture.
The underground operations at Pandora the full transition to hybrid mining, but we are taking the appropriate action to deliver this project safely, produced 142,000 tonnes, a 15% increase from 2008. on time and within budget.
To support us in the production ramp-up in 2010, we plan to increase the number of crews during the first half of the year.
com 13 Operational Review continued Lonmin purchases 100% of the ore from the Pandora We also have a number of inventory management joint venture and this ore contributed 46,421 saleable initiatives in place to ensure we optimise the value ounces of Platinum in concentrate and 85,168 of stock in the system, which is important in a cash saleable ounces of total PGMs in concentrate to our constrained environment.
Pandora joint venture activities made a Smelter loss of $1 million after tax for our account in the On 14 June 2009, we shut down our Number One financial year.
furnace following a matte run out.
From our We are at the final stages of a feasibility study investigations, we identified a design weakness in the on the underground extension of the Pandora Joint furnace, around the matte tappe hole area, which, Venture, subject to approval by the joint venture when allied with other factors, including the level at partners, which is planned to come into production which the electrodes operate in the furnace, caused in 2013. this incident.
The furnace was subsequently run at reduced power for most of the fourth quarter of 2009.
Process Division At the Process Division, management remains Production was supported by the running of our Pyromet furnaces.
focused on plant maintenance, efficiency, and stability in order to maximise recoveries.
In 2009, we made Following a re-design of the matte tappe hole area at the furnace, a re-build commenced on good progress on a number of fronts at each of the operating units within the division.
On inspection, we were pleased with the condition of the interior of the furnace as Costs for the year in the Process Division were R1,508 per PGM ounce, up 4% from 2008, and this is a good indication that the changes we made to management of electrodes had the desired effect.
The rebuild has been completed, with matte being Concentrators tapped on 9 November 2009.
As a result of the The concentrators produced a total of 663,101 rebuild, refined production during the first quarter of saleable ounces of Platinum in concentrate during the the 2010 financial year will be well below that of the 2009 financial year, a 9% year-on-year decline, mainly prior year period.
as a result of closing production at the Marikana and Whilst the Number One furnace has had a Pandora opencast operations, as well as at Limpopo.
number of run outs since it came into commission in Overall concentrator recoveries improved during the 2002, our analysis shows that it has performed in line 2009 financial year to 79.8%, from 79.2% in 2008, with other smelters in the industry.
We mitigated the partly due to the milling of less oxidised opencast financial impact of the June run out and the cost ore from deeper pits compared to the prior year.
impact in the year was not significant, at around $5 Underground recoveries fell to 81.0%, from 81.7% in million, given the short term catch up capacity we 2008, mainly as a result of undertaking extensive have in place.
Our knowledge of the workings of the maintenance on some of our Marikana concentrators Smelter has improved significantly and we have an in the first quarter of the 2009 financial year and due experienced Smelter team.
For further details on how to ore mix.
However, performance against our internal we are improving our management of the Smelter, models, which take account of ore mix issues, see the case study on the following page.
showed a significant improvement during the year as We have initiated a study to look at increasing a result of a strong management team, investment in smelter capacity in the longer term.
Additional maintenance to improve plant availability, and our capacity will also enable us to mitigate further the risk concentrator optimisation project.
As evidence of this and impact of future Smelter disruptions as improvement in performance, overall recoveries at production increases.
Marikana improved to 82.3% for September 2009, Management is also focused on managing the compared to 79.5% in October 2008. base metal feed through the Smelter.
Lonmin Underground milled head grade was 1.7% lower predominantly mines UG2 ore, with around 20% of year-on-year at 4.57 grammes per tonne 5PGE Au the ore we mine being base metal-rich Merensky ore. mainly as a result of an increased proportion of Following the placing of the Limpopo operation, with development ore coming from Hossy and Saffy and a its base metal-rich ore, on care and maintenance, we general increase in development ore throughout the require a moderate increase in the proportion of operations.
On the UG2 horizon, we mined a larger Merensky material in the short term to maintain the proportion of ore from some of the slightly lower grade correct blend composition for feed into the Number areas of the Marikana ore body and there was some One furnace.
To resolve this issue, we plan to re-open unplanned dilution, partially as a result of localised one of our Merensky opencast pits in 2010, from geological conditions.
There is still a lack of flexibility which we expect to produce around 25,000 Platinum in face availability on the Merensky reef horizon, and ounces during the year.
As a result of revised some localised lower grade areas were encountered, contractor terms, these ounces will be profitable.
particularly during the first quarter of the year.
Overall In the meantime we are purchasing some low grade milled head grade decreased marginally year-on-year Merensky type concentrate from a third party, a from 4.52 to 4.50 grammes per tonne 5PGE Au.
portion of which is expected to remain in stock at the We are working on a number of ways to extract end of 2010.
We expect to achieve the optimal value from the treatment of our tailings.
This involves Merensky content in our feed once K4 shaft, which is the extraction of chrome for onward sale, leaving relatively high in Merensky ore, commences production.
the retreated tailings in a form such that PGMs can be extracted.
This will also enhance recoveries.
14 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc PROCESS DIVISION MANAGEMENT REMAINS FOCUSED ON PLANT MAINTENANCE, EFFICIENCY, AND STABILITY IN ORDER TO MAXIMISE RECOVERIES.
Case Study: Smelter Wet Section regular communication between the Concentrator and the Smelter teams is vital Kiran Chaitram Wet Section Manager The role of the Wet Section at the Smelter is to maintain an optimal blend of feed which goes to the Smelters furnaces, run by the Hot Section.
Specifically, the key challenge for the Wet Section team is to maintain the right level of base metal content in the feed, in order to sustain appropriate heat levels in the furnaces and to deliver the requisite volume of smelter matte to the refineries.
In 2009, this challenge has been exacerbated by a reduced proportion of base metal-rich Merensky ore delivered from the mines to the Concentrators.
To support us in maintaining the appropriate blend feed, we therefore had to ensure a careful balance between concentrate deliveries from the Concentrators and feed from our slag plant.
We also bought in a limited amount of third party concentrate as an insurance policy.
At the same time, we have faced and successfully tackled the challenge of managing and reducing inventory levels at the Smelter.
We were particularly successful in processing the inventory built up following the matte run-out incident at the Number One furnace in June, including 3,000 tonnes of furnace and converter bricks, which are extremely difficult to process.
Our inventory management has remained robust during the year.
AT THE WET SECTION OF THE SMELTER, KEY FOCUS AREAS ARE BLEND FEED OPTIMISATION AND INVENTORY MANAGEMENT Kiran Chaitram Refineries the closure of opencast operations at Marikana and Our refineries performed consistently throughout the Pandora and the placing of Limpopo operations on year.
At the Base Metal Refinery BMR, we were care and maintenance, 2009 total refined production successful in completing a major project to release would have been flat compared to 2008.
Final metal locked up metal-in-process at one of the storage sales for 2009, including the sale from the BMR of tanks at the facility.
This will help lower average stock 25,062 Platinum ounces of metal-in-process levels in the refinery.
Total refined production for 2009 inventory in the fourth quarter of the year, were in line was 657,317 ounces of Platinum and 1,244,709 of with our revised sales guidance at 682,955 ounces total PGMs, down 6% and 7% respectively from the of Platinum and 1,268,918 of total PGMs.
However, taking into account www.
