Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS The ESOS was approved at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and offers executive Directors and other senior executives the opportunity to receive options granted at the market price of the Companys shares at the time of the grant.
The scheme allows awards of up to 150% of basic salary, although in exceptional circumstances the Committee is able to make awards of up to 200% of basic salary.
There are two outstanding awards to the executive Directors.
Mark Robertshaw has a vested option from 2004 that he has not exercised.
Kevin Dangerfield has an unvested option from 2001 that is subject to annual re-test for up to 10 years from the date of the grant see Directors share options table on page 84.
There is currently no intention to make awards under the ESOS in 2011.
Savings-related Share Option Scheme SAYE As UK employees, the executive Directors may also participate in the Savings-related Share Option Scheme on the same basis as other eligible employees and subject to UK legislation.
Scheme members save a fixed amount per month over three years and options have been granted with an exercise price at 80% of the market price at the date of grant.
Those Directors who received options under this scheme are shown in the table on page 86.
No performance conditions apply to these options as they are a tax-efficient mechanism for all employees to acquire shares in the Company at their own cost.
Other benefits Executive Directors are eligible to receive certain benefits including either a company car or a car allowance, health insurance and, where appropriate, relocation and other expenses.
Shareholding guidelines In order to encourage alignment with shareholders, individual shareholding guidelines are operated for executive Directors and senior executives.
Under such guidelines, executive Directors are encouraged to build and maintain over time a shareholding in the Company equivalent to at least 100% of basic salary.
This policy is supported by the BDSMP under which participants are encouraged to invest their bonus in Company shares.
Chairman and non-executive Directors Tim Stevenson was appointed as Chairman on 1 December 2006.
Annual fees paid to the Chairman are reviewed on a biennial basis.
A review was held in December 2008 and an increase for the Chairman was recommended.
However, in view of the economic conditions at the time, and at the request of the Chairman, this increase was deferred for 12 months.
Therefore, with effect from 1 January 2010 his annual fee was increased from 125,000 to 140,000.
Non-executive Director fees are also reviewed biennially.
Since 2006, non-executive Directors have received a basic annual fee of 40,000.
Additional payments of 4,500 pa are made to the Senior Independent Director, 7,500 to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and 5,000 to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Following a biennial review in 2010, the annual fee for non-executive Directors has been increased from 40,000 to 42,000 pa.
The additional payments of 4,500 made to the Senior Independent Director, 7,500 made to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and 5,000 to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee have each been increased to 8,000 pa.
Therefore, with effect from 1 January 2011 Martin Flowers, Simon Heales and Andrew Givens annual fees were increased to 50,000.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors are also entitled to reimbursement of expenses incurred in attending Board, strategy and other meetings.
None of the non-executive Directors has a service contract with the Company although they do have letters of appointment which contain no obligations relating to any notice period.
There are no obligations on the Company to make any payments in lieu of notice to any non-executive Director.
The non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the incentive, share or share option plans.
Each of the non-executive Directors will be subject to re-election by shareholders every year from 2011 onward in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 81
