Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Governance Chairmans letter Dear Shareholder Introduction I want to set out in this letter how governance underpins our activities in Severn Trent and describe how we apply the principles of good corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in 2008 Combined Code.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Combined Code sets out standards of good practice that listed companies are expected to follow in areas such as how we structure the board appropriately and develop its members, how we pay and reward our executive team, our accountability and audit, and our relationship with our shareholders.
Sir John Egan Chairman From 1 July 2009 to the year ended 31 March 2010, Severn Trent was fully compliant in its application of the Combined Code.
From 1 April 2009 to 30 June 2009, we did not comply Governance in Severn Trent with Code Provision A.
3.2 which requires that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
The way we are structured Our organisation is structured to allow Martin Houstons unplanned resignation as a non-executive director in January 2009, due for effective and efficient decision to his other work commitments, meant that we needed to appoint another independent making with clear accountabilities.
non-executive director to your board but it had to be the right director, able to demonstrate complementary skills and experience, to assist in our decision making.
We appointed The way we choose to behave Gordon Fryett with effect from 1 July 2009.
Our Code of Conduct sets out our approach to responsible business Our compliance with the Combined Code demonstrates our commitment to the highest behaviours.
standards of governance and corporate behaviour.
The Combined Code will be replaced next year with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The events in our corporate markets The Code of Conduct is supported by over the past two years necessitated a review of the Combined Code and your board 14 group policies and our behaviour encouraged and supported the changes that the new Code will bring to bear.
Further details of the Code of to the consultation on the review of the Combined Code is available for you to review on the Conduct can be found on our website website of the Financial Reporting Council, FRC www.
com Board membership The way we assure our performance From 1 July 2009 the board has consisted of me, your non-executive Chairman, five Management assurance is provided executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
Together, as a unified by a combination of effective board, I believe we bring an appropriate balance of innovation, experience, independence management processes and risk and challenge to ensure effective decision making.
Photographs of the members of the board, together with their biographies and a description Independent assurance is provided of the skills that they bring to bear, can be found on pages 32 and 33. primarily by Internal Audit, by our external auditors and other Role of the Chairman external bodies.
I joined the board in October 2004 and was appointed Chairman on 1 January 2005.
During my time as your Chairman, we have successfully established a strong and committed executive team who are driving continuous improvement throughout Severn The way Trents activities.
we are structured With effect from the end of this years AGM, on 20 July, I shall retire as your Chairman.
The board engaged Zygos, an independent executive search team, last year to lead the search for my successor and Richard Davey, your senior independent non-executive The way director chaired the Nominations Committee in the search and recommendation of The way we choose we work a successor.
to behave I am delighted that Andrew Duff has agreed to be your Chairman and, having been appointed to the board on 10 May 2010, will stand for reappointment at the AGM.
The role of the Chairman is to lead a unified board, facilitating its members at its meetings, The way we assure our and to be responsible for ensuring that the principles and processes of the board are performance maintained in line with the Board Governance document.
Agendas for our meetings are agreed in consultation with the Chief Executive CE and Company Secretary, although any director may request that an item be added to the agenda.
I have authority to act and speak for the board between its meetings, including engaging with the CE.
I report to the board and committee Chairmen as appropriate on Governance 36 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance Chairmans letter continued decisions and actions taken between meetings of the board.
I also meet with the nonGroup Authorisation Arrangements executive directors without the executive directors present, to consider the performance of The Group Authorisation Arrangements the executive directors and to provide feedback.
GAA are the framework through which the Severn Trent Plc board authorises Senior independent non-executive director the right people, at the right level, to take Richard Davey is the senior independent non-executive director.
He chairs the important decisions as we manage legal, Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
financial and administrative issues The board has agreed that Richard Davey will act as Chairman of the board in the event that throughout the group.
The GAA are I am unable to do so for any reason.
designed to facilitate good control, During the year, Richard chaired the Nominations Committee, leading the search for efficient decision making and my successor.
Due to my role on the steering group and advising the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and The flow of authority is from the Severn Administrators ICSA on the review of the Higgs guidance on board effectiveness, Richard Trent Plc board to the CE.
In respect of also led our boards response to this consultation.
Our response can be found on the FRC certain issues, the delegated authority is website www.
uk subject to an obligation to work with Non-executive directors specialist business services areas such Your non-executive directors are appointed to the board to contribute their external expertise as Tax, Treasury, Finance and Company and experience in areas of importance to the group such as corporate finance, general Secretariat that provide additional finance, corporate strategy, environmental matters, general management and supply chain expertise and a group wide perspective.
They also provide independent challenge and rigour in the boards deliberations and are encouraged to make independent assessments of the companys Governance of subsidiaries competencies.
The non-executive directors, led by Richard as the senior independent The board of the listed company, non-executive director, meet without me at least once a year, where there is an opportunity Severn Trent Plc, is the same as that of for them to appraise my performance.
its regulated subsidiary, Severn Trent Your board has reviewed the status of the non-executive directors and considers them all to Water Limited.
This structure was be independent in character and judgment and within the definition of this term in the implemented in 2007 when it was Combined Code.
decided to integrate the management of the listed company with the management Chief Executive of the regulated entity to gain greater The board has delegated all responsibility beyond its matters reserved to the CE to achieve focus, transparency and effectiveness the companys strategy.
The CE, Tony Wray, is empowered to take all decisions and actions around the regulated business.
that further the companys strategy and which in his judgment are reasonable, having regard to the CE limits set out in the companys Group Authorisation Arrangements GAA.
The two companies operate as distinct legal entities.
The boards have regard to Executive directors the Severn Trent Plc Board Governance The executive directors support Tony in driving strategy forward in Severn Trent.
They are document and the Severn Trent Water committed to implementing strategy in a responsible way that takes account of our Limited Matters Reserved to the Board.
commitment to long term responsible stewardship of the business, the environment, our They are assisted through the customers and the communities in which we live and work.
management of separate agendas, Role of the Company Secretary meetings and minutes by the Company All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Fiona Secretariat and advised in their Smith, and the Company Secretariat team.
The Company Secretary is responsible for meetings by the Company Secretary ensuring that the board operates in accordance with the governance framework it has where appropriate.
adopted and that there are good information flows to the board and its committees and Subsidiary company boards are required between senior management and the non-executive directors.
to be managed scrupulously with respect In her role as the groups General Counsel, Fiona is a part of the Severn Trent executive to all legal, fiscal and administrative management team with responsibility for the Business Resilience and Security, Company matters.
In particular, the relationships Secretariat, Legal, Risk, Compliance and Insurance teams.
between Severn Trent Water Limited, the regulated entity, and our non-regulated The appointment and resignation of the Company Secretary is a matter for consideration by businesses such as Severn Trent the board as a whole.
Services are monitored and controlled to Induction ensure that we comply with our Ofwat On joining the board, directors are evaluated and then provided with a comprehensive and obligations on arms length transactions.
individualised induction pack that includes notes on the group structure, the regulatory framework of the operating businesses within the group, financial reports and business plans and information on our governance framework.
Meetings are arranged with members of the executive management team and external advisers who provide support to the relevant board committees the directors may serve on.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 Visits to operational and office sites across the group are also arranged for directors joining Shareholders the board.
The board recognises the importance of representing and promoting the Continuing professional development interests of its shareholders and that Regular seminars, arranged to coincide with board meetings, are held to update and refresh it is accountable to shareholders for the boards knowledge and understanding on a variety of topics.
During this year, we had the performance and activities of sessions to understand and examine the construction and delivery of our business plan for the company.
Moving forward, we will be creating individual programmes for learning and development.
The programmes will be reviewed by your Chairman with each director as part of the annual Retail shareholder engagement performance and effectiveness reviews undertaken by the board.
strategy The board has an active shareholder Performance and effectiveness reviews engagement strategy, the main elements In 2008 09, the board participated in a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of which are set out below.
To ensure independence and objectivity the review was externally facilitated by Praesta Partners LLP.
We noted that although the board was effective The Annual Report and Accounts is the across key aspects of its role and supporting processes, the directors felt that they needed principal means of communicating with to move the emphasis of the boards attention from detailed operational issues to long term shareholders.
The group adopted strategic issues.
e-communications after they were approved by shareholders as an In 2009 10, working closely with Tony Wray, your CE, and Fiona Smith, the Company alternative means of receiving company Secretary, we structured the content of the board and committee agendas to support that information at the 2007 annual general move in emphasis.
As at 31March 2010, 42,449 In April 2010, the board commenced a review of its effectiveness and the effectiveness of its shareholders receive company key committees.
That review is being led by me, your Chairman, assisted by Fiona Smith, communications via electronic methods and facilitated by Lintstock, an independent firm of corporate governance advisers.
The whilst 27,385 shareholders continue to review is in the form of an online questionnaire to be followed by a series of confidential receive communications by post.
interviews between each director, the Company Secretary and me.
I shall present the The companys website results of the review to the board at its meeting in July and the results of that review will form www.
com contains an part of my successors induction pack.
archive of annual reports together with Board processes other information relevant to investors.
We have processes in place regarding: This includes comprehensive share price information, financial results and our tasks and activities board membership and administration : financial calendars.
the matters specifically reserved for our decision making, the authority delegated to the The company offers a Dividend CE, the accountability of the CE for that authority, and guidance on managing the Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Details of relationship between us and the CE: and the DRIP are available on the company the boundaries on CE action CE limits.
website and the website of Equiniti, our registrar.
An approved Board Governance document outlines those processes and is available on our website www.
com Further shareholder information can be found on pages 123 to 124.
The board has reserved the following for its own consideration: the appointment of the CE, directors, the Company Secretary and the Director of Internal Audit: Financial calendar 16 June 2010 Ex-dividend date for the strategy and budgets of the company: 2009 10 final dividend the GAA which set out the groups delegated approval limits: 18 June 2010 Record date for decisions regarding the company and its subsidiaries required to be made by the 2009 10 final dividend companys GAA, constitutional documents, statute or external regulation: and 20 July 2010 AGM, International Convention Centre, the approval or adoption of documents including the publication of reports and Birmingham, B1 2EA statements to shareholders, required to be made by the board by the companys GAA, 30 July 2010 Payment date for constitutional documents, statute or external regulation.
proposed 2009 10 final dividend 23 November 2010 Announcement date for 2010 11 interim results 14 January 2011 Payment date for proposed 2010 11 interim dividend Governance 38 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance Chairmans letter continued Board meetings Reporting obligations We have regular scheduled meetings throughout the year.
As a publicly listed company, the company has a range of reporting Papers, including minutes of board committees held since the previous board meeting and obligations to meet that are set out by law performance reports, are circulated in advance of each meeting.
The company is There is an agreed procedure in place which allows directors to take independent committed to the promotion of investor professional advice in the course of their duties and all directors have access to the advice confidence by taking steps within its and services of the Company Secretary.
Where a director has a concern over any power to ensure that trade in its unresolved matter he she is entitled to require the Company Secretary to minute that securities takes place in an efficient and concern.
Should the director later resign over the issue, I, as Chairman, will bring it to the informed market.
The company recognises the importance Board attendance in 2009 10 of effective communication as a key Sir John Egan 8 8 Martin Lamb 8 8 part of building shareholder value Tony Ballance 8 8 Michael McKeon 8 8 and that, to prosper and achieve growth, Dr Bernard Bulkin 7 8 Baroness Noakes 8 8 it must among other things earn the Richard Davey 8 8 Andy Smith 8 8 trust of security holders, employees, Gordon Fryett 5 6 Tony Wray 8 8 customers, suppliers and communities, Martin Kane 8 8 by being open in its communications and consistently delivering on its Gordon Fryett was unable to attend one scheduled board meeting due to a family commitments.
commitment arranged prior to his appointment to the board.
The company announces its results on a Bernard Bulkin was unable to attend one scheduled board meeting due to overseas half yearly basis and complies with the business commitments.
requirement to make interim In both cases, the directors reviewed the relevant agenda and papers and provided management statements.
comments to me in advance of the meeting.
During the year, we finalised and submitted Severn Trent Waters business plan for AMP5.
Institutional shareholders and analysts In working through this process with the executive management team, we considered the Presentations are made to shareholders impact of our plans on all of our stakeholders and used our risk management process to and analysts following the release of the help us understand and assess that impact both for the five year period of our plan and our interim and year end results.
The Chief 25 year strategic direction statement.
Executive and Finance Director meet shareholders during the year.
The In addition to the formal board meetings, your board attended one full day strategy session Chairman and, if appropriate, the senior this year, where the board and executive management team together considered Severn independent non-executive director are Trent Waters Draft and Final Determination and Severn Trent Services growth plan.
During available to meet shareholders if the financial year, nine ad hoc meetings of the board were convened to consider such required.
The board receives written matters as Severn Trent Waters Draft Determination, Severn Trent Plcs preliminary and feedback following meetings with interim results and interim management statements.
institutional shareholders and monitors Board committees shareholder activity on a quarterly basis We have established committees of the board to deal with specific issues or approvals, as at its meetings.
The four permanent committees of the board assist in the execution of its responsibilities and the board delegated some of its responsibilities to those board committees.
The committees assist the board by focusing on their specific activities, fulfilling their roles and responsibilities, reporting to the board on decisions and actions taken, and making any necessary recommendations.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees comply with the provisions of the Combined Code and are available for inspection, together with the terms of reference of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, on the companys website www.
com or may be obtained on written request from the Company Secretary at the address given on the back cover.
Each of the committees has reviewed its effectiveness and terms of reference during the year and any necessary actions have been identified and reported to the board.
Reports from the Chairmen of these committees are set out on pages 41 to 57 of this report.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39 Terms and conditions of appointment We have made the terms and conditions of appointment of the directors available for inspection by any person at the companys registered office during normal business hours.
They will also be available at the AGM.
The letters of appointment of the directors can also be seen at our website www.
com Remuneration The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 45 to 57.
Insurance and indemnities Severn Trent purchases directors and officers liability and indemnity insurance to cover its directors and officers against the costs of defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity, and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
Interests No director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract of significance with the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Conflicts of interests update Last year, the Governance report described in full the process that the board had put in place to authorise situational conflicts in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
For any actual or potential conflicts, the following procedure has been adopted by the board to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the company: the director will notify the Chairman and Company Secretary of the actual or potential conflict: the Nominations Committee will consider the notification and determine whether it needs to be proposed to a board meeting for authorisation: and the conflict will be considered by the board at a scheduled board meeting.
Full details of the conflict will be sent to directors in advance of the meeting.
If there is a major conflict or it is decided that authorisation should not wait until the next scheduled meeting, the board would be asked to authorise the conflict by way of written resolution.
In addition to reviewing any conflicts notified and proposing them for authorisation by the board, the Nominations Committee monitors changes to previously notified conflicts and any conditions imposed.
Half yearly reports are made to the board of all directors conflicts and directors are reminded from time to time of their obligations.
An annual review of conflicts is carried out and this is incorporated into the year end process of verifying directors interests.
Annual general meeting The AGM of the company will be held at the International Convention Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11am on Tuesday 20 July 2010.
The AGM is shareholders opportunity to feedback to the company on performance, management and the way we work in a very direct fashion through the way they vote either in favour of the resolution, against the resolution or by withholding their vote so that it does not count either for or against.
It is also shareholders opportunity to meet informally with directors and senior management before and after the meeting and ask formal questions during the meeting.
The board encourages shareholders to attend the companys AGM and exercise their right to vote.
The notice of meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue.
Presentations are made on the groups activities and performance prior to the formal business of the meeting.
Shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions of the board and present their views.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, together with all other directors, will attend the AGM.
Governance 40 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance Chairmans letter continued The company uses electronic voting at the AGM, allowing shareholders present at the meeting to register one vote per share held.
Results of the poll on each resolution, including details of the votes for and against registered prior to and at the meeting, proxy votes and the number of abstentions will be displayed at the meeting.
The poll results and a list of questions and answers from the AGM will be made available on our website after the meeting.
At the 2009 AGM, over 75 shareholders registered for Severn Trents Shareholder Networking Programme.
The aim of the programme is to offer retail shareholders the opportunity to learn more about the company, through a combination of site visits and talking to staff.
The 2009 event was hosted by Martin Kane, Director of Customer Relations and a member of the board, and Fiona Smith, the Company Secretary.
Twenty-one participants were taken to Minworth, to our Sewage Treatment Works, for a tour and presentation on renewable energy.
This was followed by a visit to Raynesway for a tour of our depot centre and customer contact centre.
Positive feedback was given on the organisation and content with strong support for the company continuing the programme, both from shareholders and employees who enjoyed the positive interest shown in their work and their part in explaining what work they did.
Your board encourages those shareholders attending the 2010 AGM to register for this years visit.
Reappointment At this years AGM, it is proposed that the directors listed below stand for reappointment: Martin Kane Baroness Noakes Martin Lamb Andy Smith In accordance with the companys articles of association, all directors are required to stand for reappointment at least every three years.
This year, a total of four directors are retiring by rotation and standing for reappointment.
Directors chosen for reappointment will vary and these directors have the longest service since their last reappointment.
In addition, Andrew Duff has been appointed to the board since the 2009 AGM.
In accordance with the companys articles of association he will also stand for reappointment at this years AGM.
Conclusions During my tenure as Chairman, I have presided over five years which have seen our business move from a position of offering poor service standards in 2005 to completing the delivery of our AMP4 programme successfully, after three years of continuous improvement in our operational, regulatory and customer service performance.
Your board has worked effectively in ensuring that we have continued to deliver this marked improvement during 2009 10, together with a strong increase in our underlying profitability.
The board has also been successful in starting to deliver a clear long term strategy for Severn Trent, so that we are well placed to take advantage of the opportunities that significant business, policy and regulatory changes may bring during the AMP5 period.
In closing my last full year as your Chairman, I would like to thank board members, staff, our shareholders and all our other stakeholders for the support given to me during my tenure with Severn Trent.
On behalf of you all, I wish my designated successor, Andy Duff, every success in the new role which he is due to take up on 20 July 2010.
