Directors Report: Corporate governance Chairmans introduction Achieving good governance The Board is responsible to all Tullow stakeholders for providing strong leadership in Group strategy and ensuring that the risks and rewards of the business are properly balanced and managed.
2010 Board evaluation We undertook an external evaluation of the Boards effectiveness in 2010, as the last externally facilitated review was in 2007.
Overall, the results of the review demonstrate that the Board was effective during the year.
Recognising the important role the Board plays in setting the strategic direction of the Group, the Board performance report identified the need to continue to refine how the Board is engaged in developing strategy.
This includes ensuring that adequate time is allocated to discussions on strategy and, as appropriate, that alternative strategies to deliver corporate objectives are fully considered.
As last year, we have provided information on the detailed annual objectives for the Board and the Boards performance A good governance structure against those objectives.
See the Governance highlights on must be underpinned by a strong page 17 for performance against the 2010 objectives and the organisational culture that values table on page 73 for the 2011 Board objectives.
ethics and integrity and the highest 2010 Board time allocation We have set out the approximate time we allocated at Board standards of corporate behaviour.
meetings during the year to various discussion topics.
Next to Pat Plunkett, Chairman strategy, discussions on the situation and progress in Uganda took up the second highest time.
Very considerable effort was devoted at Board level and in-country by Executive Directors and senior management trying to satisfactorily conclude this transaction.
Achieving First Oil in Ghana and successful operational delivery across the business was also given high importance to ensure we met our targets and stakeholder expectations.
EHS commanded more of our time, mainly as a result of the implications of the Macondo incident in April and what that potentially meant for Tullow.
Corporate Governance is another important area for the Board, in relation not just to the new UK Corporate Governance Code but also to the UK Bribery Act and the Groups Code of Business Conduct.
In recognition of the importance attached to these areas, a Group Compliance Manager was recruited early in 2011, reporting to the General Counsel.
Topics discussed at 2010 Board meetings To read the p14 Chairmans statement Strategy 25% Uganda 20% For progress in Operations including Ghana 20% p64Corporate responsibility Financial management 10% EHS 10% For the review of the Boards effectiveness see Corporate Governance 7.5% p79Board performance evaluation HR 5% Other 2.5% For information on p82Board committees 72 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p70-p99 AW3.
indd 72 72 29 03 2011 29 03 2011 11:15 11:15 5 2011 Board objectives The following are the key objectives the Board has agreed for this year.
A mid-year review of progress in each area will be undertaken by Graham Martin, General Counsel and Company Secretary and the nominated Executive Director.
Corporate strategy Group Compliance Ensure sufficient Board time is given to strategic debate, The newly appointed Group Compliance Manager has listening to external views and the determination of new responsibility for Tullows anti bribery and corruption and options to generate long-term value.
The UK Bribery Act, which is due to be introduced this year, will place Formally review corporate strategy at least annually.
onerous requirements on UK companies to demonstrate Corporate risk the effectiveness of their anti-bribery measures.
Tullow is introducing a new Code of Business Conduct, supporting Principal risks and uncertainties in relation to the Groups policies and guidelines and detailed reporting requirements financial and operational performance in 2011 are set out for staff.
A comprehensive and mandatory training programme in the risk management report on page 42.
In addition the Board has an objective to ensure that major corporate risks is under development which all management, employees and continue to be identified and that adequate systems, processes contractor staff will undertake.
An online training programme and procedures are in place to monitor and mitigate them.
is also planned for later in 2011.
Tullow is also establishing a Compliance Committee to oversee the Groups compliance Specific corporate risks currently identified are: activities and report regularly to the Board on progress.
External stakeholder relationships: We will outline these initiatives more fully in our Corporate 2.
Health and safety, with particular emphasis on malaria Responsibility Report, to be published in June.
awareness and prevention: Stakeholder engagement 3.
UK Bribery Act and Tullows Code of Business Conduct: Tullow has strong stakeholder engagement programmes in 4.
Organisational capacity: and place for shareholders and employees as well as increasing levels of engagement with local communities and suppliers, 5.
An area we are focusing on this year is our external stakeholder engagement to help us Board Committees identify and analyse the major issues that impact on our ability Implement succession plan for Chairman and to run our business and achieve our plans and strategic non-executive Directors.
One of our main goals is to operate in a way that creates shared prosperity so that we understand what this Review and revise remuneration structure to align with current phase of growth.
means to our key external stakeholders.
Our aim, over time, is to develop a best-in-class approach so that all our Re-visit composition of Board Committees.
stakeholders see real benefits from our success.
Board visibility and communications Succession planning As I outlined in my Chairmans Statement, I plan, after more Further improve Board visibility both as a whole and as than 12 very enjoyable years as a non-executive Director of individual Directors and examine the effectiveness of Tullow, to step down as Chairman by next years AGM.
I have internal communications in assessing the views of announced this early to enable Tullow to identify a successor employees, both long-serving and new joiners.
and to ensure a smooth transition for the new Chairman.
Training of Directors This is part of an overall process to develop and implement a succession plan for my role and the ongoing refreshment The Chairman is to agree formal training and of the non-executive Directors.
development plans with each Director and review progress in completing these plans.
Governance and culture Achieving good governance and being a responsible company Board administration is inextricably linked with organisational culture and how we A more thorough review of electronic web-based run and manage our business.
Culture defines our values, Board administration systems will be made in 2011 how decisions are made and what we deem as acceptable risk.
Equally, it is about what standards we apply in how we deal with people, whatever stakeholder group they might be.
What we strive to do is to adopt and implement what is right for our For more information on business, while being open and transparent in all that we do.
how we did in 2010 see This helps us to create trust, demonstrate accountability Governance highlights and build our reputation, which in turn will create new opportunities for Tullow and for all our stakeholders.
indd 73 73 29 03 2011 29 03 2011 14:01 14:01 Directors Report: Corporate governance Chairmans introduction
