2010 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Chairmans statement Your Company continues to deliver strong cash generation, is well positioned to benefit from economic recovery and looks to the future with confidence.
Sir John Bond Chairman Dividends per share Review of the year particularly those where we do not exercise management control.
The Pence Total dividends per share of 8.31 pence, up 7%: three year Board reviews these investments regularly and will remain focused 8.31 dividend per share growth target of at least 7% per annum.
upon the best way of realising maximum shareholder value.
7.77 7.51 Continued innovation in our products and services.
Vodafone Foundation Vodafone invested a total of 42 million in foundation We have continued to fund the work of the Vodafone Foundation.
Through the Vodafone Foundation and our network of national affiliate foundations we support communities and societies in the Environment and performance countries in which we operate.
In this financial year we invested a total 2008 2009 2010 2009 saw the sharpest contraction in the worlds economy for more of 42 million in foundation programmes and social causes.
Unquestionably, this has been the most difficult economic environment in which your Company has ever operated.
Your Board Against this background, I am very pleased to report that the Group The Board is heartened by your Companys strong results especially in delivered an adjusted operating profit of 11.5 billion down 2.5%, the face of such a sharp economic downturn.
It believes that the Group and generated 7.2 billion of free cash flow up 26.5%.
The Board is well positioned to benefit from economic recovery and looks to the is recommending a final dividend of 5.65 pence, making a total future with confidence.
for the year of 8.31 pence per share up 7%.
The Board is also targeting to maintain growth in dividends per share at no less than 7% per annum Simon Murray, who has been a non-executive Director since July 2007, for the next three years.
The share price has increased by 6% since 1 has decided to step down from the Board after this years AGM.
His April 2009, broadly in line with other major European telecommunications knowledge of telecommunications, entrepreneurial spirit, and experience companies, but behind the increase in the FTSE 100. of the Asia Pacific region have been great assets to the Board, and I am grateful for the contribution he has made.
While the Group is not immune from the economic environment in which we operate, with our retail customers seeking to control Annual General Meeting their expenditure as much as possible and our business customers The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for the Companys seeking to control cost, we have responded swiftly with cost reduction shareholders to communicate with the directors and I sincerely hope that and efficiency programmes.
On top of our original 1 billion cost you will take this opportunity to do so.
The Notice of Meeting, together programme, delivered a year ahead of plan, we have now committed with an explanation of the business to be conducted at the meeting is to a further 1 billion cost programme by the 2013 financial year.
Your directors consider that Resolutions 1 to 24 mobile voice prices continuing to decline in Europe by over 10% a year, on pages 5 and 6 are in the best interests of the shareholders and they tight cost control will remain a high priority in the future.
recommend that shareholders vote FOR the Resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Innovation Your Company has also continued to innovate in the services we I do understand that most shareholders will not be able to attend the provide.
This year has seen the launch of Vodafone 360, a service AGM in person but nevertheless your vote is still important.
I would designed to help bridge the intersection between mobile strongly encourage you, regardless of the number of shares you own, communications and the internet.
The Vodafone Money Transfer to vote and details of how to do this are set out on page 12.
The results system branded M-PESA in Kenya and Tanzania is available in three of voting on all the Resolutions will be announced via the Regulatory countries with 13 million customers transferring US$3.6 billion during News Service and published on the Companys website as soon as the 2010 financial year.
We expect to roll-out the service to further possible after the meeting.
We recently launched two of the worlds most inexpensive handsets for example the Vodafone 150 retails in most Your Board appreciates your continuing support.
With respect to the dividend markets at unsubsidised prices below US $15 and we are working on growth target, as the Groups free cash flow is low cost handsets which will give access to the internet.
predominantly generated by companies operating within Geographic diversity the euro currency zone, we have assumed that the euro One of the benefits of our broad spread of operations in both Sir John Bond to sterling rate remains developed and emerging markets is the diversification of risk that this Chairman within 10% of the guidance allows.
The Board keeps a close watch on this portfolio of investments, exchange rate of 1:1.15.
