2 Chairmans statement HIGHlIGHtS 2009 10 Strong financial performance Profit before tax 858m Underlying profit increased 21% Underlying basic earnings per share 20.5p See page 16 for more on Operating results Dividend growth once again Total dividend for the year 8.2p Increase of 41% from 2009 Dividend cover 2.5 times Board changes New CEO Dalton Philips, March 2010 Two new Non-Executive Directors See p age 18 for the Board of Directors biographies Sir Ian Gibson, Chairman Morrisons had another good year.
Once again our focus on fresh food and great value appealed to shoppers everywhere, and we have successfully grown sales and profits to record levels.
We completed delivery of the Optimisation Plan first launched four years ago, and we are well on the way to cementing our position as the food specialist for everyone.
The opening of 43 stores in the year accelerated our journey from National to Nationwide.
% % 858m 23 increase 41increase Profit before tax increased 203m Underlying earnings per share increased Total dividend for the year has increased 41%, compared to last year 655m.
to 20.5p from 16.7p in 2009. making dividend cover 2.5 times.
12pence 42m 1.8m The Board has recommended a final dividend The profit share pool for our colleagues raised for our Charity of the Year of 7.12p per share, bringing the total dividend is 42m, an increase of 24% on the Cancer Research UK.
for the year to 8.20p per share.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual review 2010 3 In a difficult period for the UK economy As part of the Boards progressive succession Outlook strategy, Susan Murray retired as a Non-Executive We expect the economic environment to remain and for the consumer, Morrisons has again demonstrated its strength.
I am pleased to Director on 31 December 2009.
We are extremely challenging, disposable incomes to be under appreciative of Susans efforts and valued pressure and value to be a high priority for report another year of significant progress, during which we successfully concluded the contribution throughout her four years on the consumers.
The Board believes that Morrisons Board and grateful to her for the support she unique offer of high quality fresh food at great Optimisation Plan launched in 2006, delivered market beating sales growth, record profits gave to the Group through its business recovery value prices will continue to attract customers and development.
from our competitors and drive market share and a strong dividend.
We made great strides towards our goal of being the food specialist growth in the year ahead.
For the longer term, We are pleased to welcome two new we will utilise our balance sheet strength to for everyone and welcomed more customers through our doors than ever before on our Non-Executive Directors, Penny Hughes invest for growth, with new space, new and Johanna Waterous.
They both bring manufacturing capability and new systems journey to take the business from National to Nationwide.
many years of experience and their a priority in the year ahead.
biographies can be found on page 18.
Results Sir Ian Gibson Industry recognition for colleagues Chairman Profit before tax was 858m compared with 655m last year.
This included an exceptional We are delighted that our commitment to providing our customers with the best value, credit of 91m arising from steps taken to strengthen our pension schemes.
Underlying quality and service has again been recognised in numerous industry awards.
profit before tax was 767m, up 21% on last year.
Underlying basic earnings per share EPS increased by 23% to 20.5p, whilst statutory These awards are a testament to the hard work basic EPS increased by 31%.
and passion of all our 134,000 colleagues who day-to-day strive to make Morrisons the food Cash generation was strong, with cash from specialist for everyone.
During the year we operations of 1.0bn, up 40m on the previous launched the Morrisons Academy, the next step year.
Capital expenditure increased, as in the training and development of our people, anticipated, to 906m 2008 09: 678m, and already we have 20,000 colleagues working following the development of a new regional towards nationally recognised qualifications.
distribution centre and 45 store openings in I am delighted that our growth will provide a the year, two of which were replacements.
profit share pool of 42m, a 24% increase on the These investments in future growth resulted previous year, in recognition of their commitment in an increase in net debt to 924m 2008 09: to living our values.
Gearing was 19%, a level well below want to express our continuing thanks for the average for the sector, and at the year end the commitment, dedication and professionalism Group had undrawn committed bank facilities shown by our colleagues every day.
Charitable donations Board changes Throughout the business, our colleagues and We are pleased to welcome Dalton Philips customers have once again enthusiastically as our new Chief Executive, following Marc supported a variety of charitable activities, Bollands resignation in November 2009. community initiatives and national events.
Dalton joins from Loblaw, where he was Chief These have included raising 220,000 for Operating Officer, having spent much of his Children in Need and 600,000 for the Haiti career in grocery retail worldwide.
We thank Disaster Emergency Committee earthquake Marc for his contribution to the development appeal.
Our Charity of the Year for 2009 10 of the business over the past three years.
was Cancer Research UK and to date we have raised in excess of 1.8m.
Introducing our new Chief Executive Dalton Philips I h ave worked in retail organisations worldwide and have often looked at Morrisons, particularly how it combined its fresh food offer and great value.
I am therefore delighted to be joining what I Morrisons Academy, launched in 2009, would regard as a retailers retailer at a time will provide training for professional and when they have delivered outstanding results.
I am looking forward to working with the team to build on those strong foundations for the future.
