message from the chairman We have the capability to become theglobal leader in infrastructure What shines through is the dedication,  of our people.
Steve Marshall Chairman 4 Balfour Beatty The infrastructure business | At a glance | Message from Chairman | Balfour Beatty had another successful year in 2010.
Our people As we become a genuinely global infrastructure business, We have created a resilient business, which performed it is imperative that we are organised in line with our well in spite of the weak economic environment in some strategic priorities.
During 2010, we took steps to organise ourselves through Our strong order book increased by 1.1bn in the year a divisional structure focused on worldwide professional to15.2bn and we maintained a robust balance sheet services, UK construction, US construction, international with net cash of 518m at the year-end, excluding PPP rail, support services and infrastructure investments.
Aswe continue to grow, our success will depend on bothour ability to be world-class in all these areas and Over the past few years, Balfour Beatty has become anincreasingly diverse company, both in terms of the oureffectiveness in collaborating, as appropriate, across the Group.
geographies we operate in and the end-markets we address.
The Group is not over-reliant on any one market From my visits to our operations in North America, Asia, segment and has the flexibility and capabilities to pursue Continental Europe and the UK during the year, it is clear the most attractive growth opportunities.
that our businesses are actively exploring how to work more effectively together and harness the power of our Looking forward, we are excited about the significant opportunities in the power sector, particularly in the unique capabilities.
nuclear, renewables and offshore markets: in the rail Balfour Beatty is an exciting place to work.
Some of industry, both in transit and high-speed: and the growing ourbusinesses have had a tough year, but what shines market for business services outsourcing in the UK and through is the dedication, expertise and self-confidence for professional services worldwide.
of our people, whatever environment they are working in.
Dividend Our reputation The Board is proposing a final dividend of 7.65p per We have a continuous obligation, and desire, to engage ordinary share, making a total dividend of 12.7p for the with and retain the trust of the Groups stakeholders.
By year, an increase of 6% on 2009. doing so, we ensure that we have the licence to develop our business for the long term and thereby create value.
Our progressive dividend policy reflects our confidence in the Groups ability to deliver growth over the medium term.
Our Group-wide safety vision, Zero Harm, has had a real impact in terms of raising awareness of the standards The Board weaspire to and improving our safety record.
Despite We have actively continued to review the make-up of this, very sadly there were five fatalities in the business theBoard over the past few years in light of the increased in2010.
We will be re-doubling our efforts during 2011 scale and breadth of our business.
toensure that our safety performance doesnt plateau.
Iain Ferguson was appointed as a non-executive Director Our ethics and values programme, including our on 1 January 2010.
His extensive international operational CodeofConduct, aims to support people to make experience and his strategic insight, latterly in his capacity theright decisions.
There are many ways in which we as chief executive of Tate & Lyle PLC, will make a areembedding these values throughout the business.
significant contribution in the coming years.
Theonline training course to support the Code of Last year, I indicated that the Board intended to appoint Conductfor instance, was produced in eight languages anon-executive Director with significant US experience and completed by nearly 28,000 employees in 2010. and, in June 2010, we were pleased to announce the I am conscious that our share price has not reflected appointment of Robert Amen.
Rob has a proven track whatwe believe to be the underlying strength and value record in leading and developing large multinational ofthe business in recent years.
As ever, performance businesses and his background and experience are andlong-term strategy are the keys to a high market already proving highly relevant to the Groups continuing rating over time: but we are also putting increased programme of international development.
effortinto ensuring that we communicate with our In December 2010, we announced that Gordon Sage was stakeholders effectively.
He leaves with our sincere thanks for the significant contribution he has made over the past Our priorities in 2011 Balfour Beatty is a high-quality business and we intend seven years and our best wishes for the future.
More information on the work of the Board can be found Our newly-established divisional structure will enable in the Governance section on pages 72 to 99. usto focus on driving growth strategies and to realise efficiencies where we can.
We will be accelerating ourcollaborative efforts for the benefit of our customers and seeking to capitalise on the opportunities in new geographies and market sectors.
We have the capability to become the global leader ininfrastructure.
I am confident we will make further progress during the year.
Annual report and accounts 2010 5 The InfrasTrucTure busIness our busIness Hong Kong 6 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Our business How we performed 8 Strategic review from theChief Executive 12 Market review from the ChiefOperating Officer 24 Operating review Professional Services 28 Construction Services 32 Support Services 40 Infrastructure Investments 44 Financial review from theFinance Director 48 Directors valuation ofPPPconcessions 52 Principal risks and riskmanagement 55 Sustainability 62 Annual report and accounts 2010 7
