R Re ep po or rt t f fr ro om m t th he e C Ch ha aiir rm ma an n o of f t th he e a au ud diit t c co om mm miit tt te ee e The composition and summary terms of The committee is satisfied that the reference of the audit committee are set external auditors remain independent out on page 36. and recommended to the Board that a The principal activities of the audit resolution be put to shareholders for the committee through the year were as reappointment of the auditors, and their follows: remuneration and terms of engagement, at the Annual General Meeting of the Financial statements Company.
The audit committee reviewed the 2010 From time to time during the year annual report, interim results, preliminary the non-executives met with the external results and reports from the external and internal auditors without the executive auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, on the outcome Directors being present so as to provide a of their reviews and audits in 2010. forum to raise any matters of concern in confidence.
External auditors Internal controls and risk The committee met with the external management auditors during the year to review the scope of their audit and findings thereon The committee reviewed and evaluated for the interim and year-end financial the system of internal controls and statements.
risk management operated within the The committee received a Company.
comprehensive presentation from the Further details can be found on pages auditors demonstrating to its satisfaction 26 and 27 and 38 and 39. how their independence and objectivity Internal audit is maintained when providing non-audit services.
Ernst & Young were appointed as internal The committee has agreed the types auditors effective 1 July 2009 reporting of permitted and non-permitted service directly to the committee.
The committee and those which require explicit prior has received regular reports on its findings approval.
All contracts for non-audit and programme of reviews at each of services in excess of 25,000 must be its meetings during the course of the notified to the Chairman of the audit year.
Further details can be found in the committee and approved by him.
Internal control section of the Corporate During the year the value of non-audit governance report on pages 38 and 39. services provided by KPMG amounted Audit committee effectiveness to 0.4million FY2009: 0.5 million.
The members of the committee conducted Therange of permitted non-audit services a review of its effectiveness and concluded included the provision of tax compliance that it was working effectively.
services, acting as reporting accountant in appropriate circumstances provided there Nick Land is no element of valuation work involved, Chairman of the Audit committee and reports on internal controls as required under SAS70 pursuant to investment 13 September 2010 management industry standards.
The provision of tax advisory services, due diligence transaction services and litigation services may be permitted with the committees prior approval.
The provision of internal audit services, valuation work and any other activity that may give rise to any possibility of self-review are not permitted under any circumstance.
During the year there were no circumstances where KPMG were engaged to provide services which might have led to a conflict of interests.
Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 42
