04 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Group Chairmans statement Marcus Agius 2010 saw a continuation of the global economic recovery which began in 2009 and while the level of global economic activity remains weak reflected in high unemployment rates the recovery is intact, and the fears of a double-dip recession in developed economies that emerged in the middle of last year have largely abated.
Indeed, global GDP growth averaged nearly 5% in 2010, led by the emerging economies although growth in most of the developed world was generally below trend.
Global growth is expected to slow to approximately 4.25% in 2011, with the recovery in the UK being tempered by policy tightening.
Downside risks remain: we saw, for example, the re-emergence of sovereign risk concerns in certain European countries in the last quarter of 2010 and at the start of this year and more recently the unrest in a number of Middle Eastern and North African countries is affecting the price of oil and confidence generally.
We expect these problems to be contained, but while the outlook for markets is sanguine for now, it is vulnerable to any hints that monetary policy support might be withdrawn.
Whilst it is too early to say that the financial crisis is over, I believe it is important to reflect on the progress that has been made over the last few years in improving the resilience of the banking sector.
This is because there is, in some quarters, the sense that nothing has changed as a result of the crisis: in fact a huge amount has already been achieved.
To begin with, the banking system as a whole is now much better capitalised than before the crisis for example, Barclays Core Tier 1 Capital at the end of 2010 was 10.8%, nearly double the level at the end of 2008.
Liquidity has also been strengthened significantly Barclays held a Liquidity Pool of over 150bn at the end of 2010, more than three times the level at the end of 2008.
Considerable change has also been made in other areas across the sector: leverage is lower: stress testing has been institutionalised: the Financial Stability Board principles on Remuneration have Whilst it is too early to say that the been widely implemented and, finally, good progress is being made in the vital area of recovery and resolution planning.
We still await final rules in other financial crisis is over, I believe it is important areas, however, including the minimum levels of capital to be held by systemically important financial institutions and we also await the report from important to reflect on the progress the Independent Commission on Banking in the UK.
that has been made over the last few The importance of the regulatory reform agenda cannot be overstated.
A great deal has already been achieved and we support strong regulation in order to years in improving the resilience of the support strong banks for the benefit of all.
Accordingly, we have made a banking sector significant contribution to the debate and much of it necessarily requires the attention of our most senior people.
While we recognise the need for this to happen and welcome the prospect of a better outcome we nevertheless also look forward to the time when the new normal in regulatory terms is finally established so that we can focus on our core business of banking, namely supporting our clients and so assisting the creation of economic growth and jobs.
It is now important that the remaining issues and in particular uncertainty are resolved as quickly as possible.
I stated in my report last year that the new regulatory architecture should meet three objectives and it is important to reiterate them:- A safer and more secure financial system: A banking industry that is well equipped to support the needs of the global economy: and The ability of the suppliers of financial capital to earn a positive return on their capital.
The Basel Committee is sensibly phasing in over a period of years the new regulatory requirements in respect of both capital and liquidity.
This will help ensure that the banking system can continue to support the needs of the global economy and in particular to finance the recovery in the developed economies.
History shows that new regulations invariably lead to unintended consequences, so it will be crucial continuously to monitor their effects to ensure that the desired outcomes are achieved.
It will also be vital to ensure that the new rules are applied Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 05 consistently on a worldwide basis in order to allow international banks such as The scale of each of these components of contribution is profoundly affected by the ability of the UK industry to compete with the best international peers.
Barclays to operate on a global level playing field.
It would be very dangerous if countries such as the UK continued in a position of regulatory super-equivalence, In order to maximise the contribution of UK banks to society, we must be allowed to compete on a level playing field within a secure regulatory framework.
a position that makes it harder to support private sector led economic growth.
We recognise the need to pay responsibly, including much greater levels of deferment, greater use of equity and the ability to claw back payments in specific Banks must show by their actions that they understand the public concerns over the mistakes of the past, assist and collaborate in the reform process and circumstances.
As Chairman, I am acutely aware of the public disquiet over remuneration in the industry.
Barclays is committed to acting responsibly in recognise their obligation to contribute to economic recovery.
A successful banking system brings many benefits to society, including: this area.
We are fully compliant with all regulatory requirements and our remuneration systems are designed to reward success, not failure.
If we are to Lending remain competitive in a global market place, however, it is simply not an option for us unilaterally to reduce compensation levels.
We can only contribute to The supply of credit is at the heart of economic activity and it is the role of banks in performing this function to facilitate appropriate risk taking in the economy society if we are able to recruit and retain good people.
Against the above background, we are very grateful to John Varley in leading the industry by households and businesses.
In Barclays alone, we lend about 500bn to customers and clients worldwide.
In 2010, our gross new UK lending totalled discussions with the UK Government which resulted in a collective statement by the major UK banks which underlined the banks recognition of their 43bn, including 7.5bn arising from the acquisition of Standard Life Bank.
responsibility to support economic recovery and to show responsibility on pay.
Accordingly, Barclays 2010 bonus pool was down 7%, despite increased profits The main UK banks recently made substantial commitments relating to lending to UK businesses, including making available the appropriate capital and and income, in line with our commitment to the UK Government for restraint.
resources to support gross new lending of 190bn in 2011, should sufficient demand materialise.
In addition, the main UK banks have also agreed to CEO Succession A key development during the year was the announcement that Bob Diamond contribute to the creation of an equity fund which the banks expect to grow over the coming years to 1.5bn to support growth in companies with an annual would succeed John Varley as Chief Executive.
While I set out in the Governance and accountability section the background to the decision to appoint Bob and in turnover of between 10m-100m.
particular, the process that was followed, I would like to pay tribute here to the exceptional job performed by John during his tenure as CEO.
Barclays has been Employment Barclays employs nearly 147,500 people of whom 60,000 are in the UK.
transformed since he became CEO in September 2004, enabling Barclays to take its place in the first rank of global universal banks.
There can have been no The banking sector as a whole employs nearly 500,000 people across the UK and the jobs of many more are related to the success of the wider financial greater test of leadership than to have been CEO during the financial crisis and John brought the bank through this period with courage and creativity.
fortunate that he will continue to be available to us as an advisor on regulatory matters until September.
Payment of Tax Successful banks pay tax on their profits and in the last normal year before the We are also fortunate that we have such a capable and qualified replacement in credit crunch 2006, the total direct and indirect taxation paid by the banking sector in the UK was nearly 40bn.
As the sector recovers, it will again become Bob Diamond.
He has a proven track record as a business leader and the Board and I are looking forward to working with him to take Barclays forward in the a major contributor to Governments across the world and particularly in the UK.
years ahead as he builds on his many achievements to date.
Payment of Dividends Successful banks pay dividends to their owners typically pension funds and Board Changes We appointed two new Directors during the year.
Dambisa Moyo was appointed mutual funds and dividend payments from UK Banks totalled over 20% of total FTSE dividends in 2006.
This figure has been significantly reduced because of in May and her background in financial services and as a global economist will the crisis and in Barclays we have had to maintain a conservative dividend policy bring valuable insights to the Board.
Alison Carnwath was appointed in August.
But it is in the interests of our owners and She is Chair of Land Securities and has a long history in financial services as a individual pensioners to see a successful banking system again providing a banker and a director of a number of global financial services businesses.
Leigh significant source of income to institutional and private savings vehicles.
Our Clifford retired from the Board on 30 September.
He made an extremely valuable dividend policy has been progressive over the past two years and we expect contribution to the Board and we benefitted greatly from his experience and his it to remain so.
wisdom, particularly during the financial crisis.
We wish him well for the future.
Community Support In conclusion, I would like on behalf of the Board to thank two particular groups Investing in the communities in which we operate is something that has always of stakeholders.
First, our many shareholders for their support in 2010.
We been important to Barclays and our employees around the world.
weathered the storm as well as we did because of a combination of public support for which we are sincerely grateful proactive management and the Despite the impact of the crisis, Barclays resolved not to reduce its level of underlying strength of our business.
Our resolve now is to build on this strength community support and, in 2010, we invested over 55m in carefully targeted to sustain the delivery of value for our shareholders into the future.
Finally, our programmes around the world.
thanks go out to all Barclays 147,500 employees who have continued to work very hard and to show dedication to the service of our customers and clients.
Our truly global community investment programme now supports projects in This lies at the heart of any success we may achieve.
37 countries, reaching more than one and a half million people and providing support to over 8,000 organisations.
To make this happen, over 62,000 colleagues gave their time, energy and expertise to volunteering, fundraising and regular giving initiatives throughout the year a record figure, of which we are justifiably proud.
You will see from the Marcus Agius Chief Executives review that Citizenship, and in particular, demonstrating our Group Chairman credentials as a global citizen, is one of our priorities in 2011.
