Business review In the days after the accident in the Gulf of Mexico the company faced a complex and fast-changing crisis.
With oil escaping into the ocean, Chairmans uncertainty grew around our ability to seal the well and restore the areas affected.
This was an intense period, with the situation worsening almost daily.
Our meeting with President Obama on 16 June 2010 provided reassurance to the US government that BP would do the right thing in the letter Gulf, and this marked a turning point.
Through diligence and invention, our teams stopped the flow of oil in July and completed relief-well operations in September.
During these difficult days your board focused on three critical objectives.
First, we ensured the response team had the resources it required Dear fellow shareholder to stop the leak, contain and clean up the damage, and provide financial support to those affected.
This was an unprecedented response to an industrial accident, with some 48,000 people involved at the height of the 2010 was a profoundly painful and testing year.
We have set up a $20-billion fund to show our willingness and April, a tragic accident on the Deepwater Horizon capacity to pay all legitimate claims for compensation.
For the long term, rig claimed the lives of 11 men and injured others.
we have committed $500 million to a 10-year independent research programme that will examine the environmental impact of the oil spilled Above all else, I want to remember those men, and dispersants used.
BP will continue to help restore the environment and and say that our thoughts remain with their economy of the Gulf, however long that takes.
Second, we resolved to understand what happened on and below families and friends.
BPs priority is to ensure that the Deepwater Horizon, to apply the lessons learned and to make our the people who work for us, and with us, return findings available publicly.
BPs comprehensive internal investigation home safely.
The accident should never have concluded that a sequence of failures involving a number of different parties led to the explosion and fire.
We are shocked and saddened We are implementing the reports recommendations.
established a powerful safety and operational risk function, and we have enhanced risk management through the restructuring of our upstream The spill that resulted caused widespread business.
We are also conducting a wide-ranging review of when and pollution.
Our response has been unprecedented how we outsource operations.
in scale, and we are determined to live up to our Third, we moved to secure the long-term future of BP and our capacity to meet our financial responsibilities in the Gulf of Mexico.
We will also do Decisive action was required here because events in the US led to a everything necessary to ensure BP is a company crisis of confidence in BP within the financial markets.
In response, we made the difficult decision to cancel three dividend payments.
We do not that can be trusted by shareholders and underestimate the effect of this on small and large shareholders alike.
However, there is no doubt in my mind that this action steadied and strengthened our position at a critical point.
I am pleased that we have been able to resume dividend payments promptly.
The dividend for the fourth quarter of 2010, to be paid in March 2011, is 7 cents per share US$0.42 per ADS.
The scrip dividend programme approved last year is in operation once again, and this presents an opportunity to take the dividend in shares or ADSs rather than cash.
We intend to raise the level of the dividend as the companys circumstances and performance improve.
6 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review During the year we further reinforced our financial position.
Having taken a Looking ahead, we believe that a growing population and rising levels of total pre-tax charge of $40.9 billion in relation to the accident and spill, we prosperity will create strong demand for energy.
BPs ability to produce announced our intention to sell up to $30 billion of assets.
We have already oil and gas from harsh environments means we have a vital contribution secured almost $22 billion.
We intend to reduce the net debt ratio to within to make here.
We will also continue to respond to climate change, and the range of 10-20%, compared with our previously targeted range of to the prospect of fossil fuels becoming a smaller part of the energy 20-30%.
For these reasons, BP must continue to be a leader in high-quality We have made significant changes to the board and I want to hydrocarbons today, while developing the intelligent options we will all acknowledge Tony Hayward and Andy Inglis, who have left the company.
Lower-carbon resources remain central to this Tony stood down as group chief executive on 1 October 2010.
was saddened to lose someone whose long-term contribution to BP was BP is able to help meet the worlds growing need for energy, so widely admired.
Andy Inglis stood down on 31 October 2010.
Andy was but we can only do this if we have the trust of society.
To achieve this, we a strong leader of Exploration and Production and a significant contributor must ensure that safety and responsibility are at the heart of everything we to the board.
We must show that we can be trusted to understand and manage our BP is fortunate to have an exceptional successor to the role of risks.
And we must demonstrate that we respect the environment and group chief executive.
Bob Dudley has spent his working life in the oil the needs of local communities and society as a whole.
industry and has proved himself a robust, successful leader in the toughest The many strengths of BP are united in our remarkable people, who circumstances.
I am delighted to be working alongside a man of such showed in 2010 that they can rise to the sternest challenge.
I thank them substance and experience.
Douglas Flint will be standing down at the annual general meeting While we face substantial challenges, shareholders must be in no in April 2011, having taken up a new role as chairman of HSBC Holdings doubt BP has the determination and strength needed to restore its plc.
Douglas has chaired our audit committee for the past year.
DeAnne reputation and deliver long-term shareholder value.
Through its Julius will be standing down at the same time, having joined the board in refocused strategy, the company is working to become more agile and 2001.
DeAnne has chaired the remuneration committee since 2005 and is more competitive, with strong emphasis on realizing value rather than succeeded in that role by Antony Burgmans.
Both DeAnne and Douglas building volume and scale.
We will not be afraid to develop new and have been immensely valuable board members.
We thank them and wish innovative approaches that redefine the model of an international oil them both well.
company, as our recently announced partnerships with Rosneft and Boards must evolve if they are to engage effectively with new Reliance demonstrate.
We have acted to strengthen the board of BP to I want to end by thanking shareholders for their support.
You have ensure we have the right mix of skills, knowledge and experience as we been steadfast through one of the most testing periods in BPs long work to achieve sustainable success in a fast-changing world.
We have learned many lessons about ourselves over the past we appointed Paul Anderson and Ian Davis as non-executive directors.
We 12 months, and these will never be forgotten.
I believe we will emerge a have since made three further non-executive appointments.
Admiral Frank stronger, wiser company with a very important role to play, for many L Skip Bowman is former head of the US Nuclear Navy and was a years to come.
member of the Baker Panel that reviewed safety at BPs US refineries.
We will benefit from his exceptional experience on safety matters and his knowledge of BP.
Brendan Nelson brings vast financial and auditing experience from KPMG, where latterly he was vice chairman.
He is eminently well qualified to take over the chair of the audit committee Carl-Henric Svanberg following the annual general meeting.
Phuthuma Nhleko will bring deep Chairman experience of emerging markets, gained while he was group president and 2 March 2011 chief executive officer of multinational telephony company MTN Group.
Clearly, after a very troubled and demanding 12 months, BP is a changed company.
As a board we have much to do, and we are working More on board performance with the executive team to ensure successful implementation of a bp.
com governance refocused strategy built on the pillars of safety, trust and value creation.
Foremost is the need to ensure the right checks and balances are in place across the company.
The full board will continue to maintain close oversight of matters related to safety.
And we will have even greater engagement on the strategic implications of risk.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 7
