50 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 governance governance matterS.
chairmanS letter whose only interest with Legal & General is her work with the Board.
The evaluation process included the facilitator interviewing each of the directors and obtaining their views on how the Board and its committees work.
Feedback on Board performance was then presented to a meeting of the Board which discussed what it believed were the relevant issues and agreed the recommendations arising and the actions to be taken in 2011 as a result.
With regards to information During 2010, corporate governance has continued to on personal performance, I meet with each director evolve apace.
The Board of Legal & General has again individually and provide feedback on a one to one this year dedicated time to considering emerging basis and agree any particular business education corporate governance practice in line with our belief requirements for the year ahead.
Feedback on my that good corporate governance underpins the long term performance in chairing the Board is provided by the success of the Company.
Senior Independent Director following discussions between him and the other Board members.
Overall, In November, the Board carried out a review of the I am satisfi ed that the Board operates well.
This included the annual review of a number of corporate This year we have continued our work in promoting governance policies such as the Matters Reserved for greater and more effective engagement with our the Board and Terms of Reference for each of the Boards shareholders.
On behalf of the Board, the Group Chief committees.
As well as assisting the Board in being able Executive, Group Chief Financial Offi cer and I, supported to confi rm compliance with the principles and provisions by the Investor Relations department, regularly met with of the Combined Code for 2010, the Board determined as institutional investors and analysts throughout the year.
a result of the review to develop a Corporate Governance The Board also received regular reports from the handbook bringing all Company corporate governance Investor Relations department on its activities, and in policies into one reference document.
I believe this particular the feedback being received from investors re ects the commitment of the Board to good corporate and analysts.
The Board is committed to ensuring that governance and to ensuring that good corporate the direction of the Company is aligned with our governance practice underpins the day to day activities shareholders interests.
Ongoing engagement, of the Board.
The Board closely followed the debate on supported by clear communication, is key and will the annual re-election of directors and believes that remain a focus for the Board in 2011. annual re-election promotes our accountability to you, our shareholders.
All Board members will therefore The AGM is an important opportunity for us as a Board offer themselves for re-election at this years AGM.
to engage with the Companys private investors.
All Board members will attend the AGM and be available The success of the Board as an effective steward of the to meet and speak with shareholders.
We would like our Company depends on the right balance of skills and investors to fi nd attending our AGM an interesting and experience being in place.
During 2010, two of our rewarding experience: to hear about the performance of non-executive directors, Frances Heaton and Dr Ronaldo the Company over the last year and have the opportunity Schmitz, retired from the Board and Nick Prettejohn to meet members of the Board.
I encourage as many joined the Board in November as a non-executive shareholders as possible to attend on 25 May 2011 director bringing recent executive experience to the and I look forward to sharing with you in person the Board, in particular experience in the life insurance successes of the Company during 2010. sector.
Sir David Walker will retire from the Board this year and we thank him for his outstanding contribution to the Board.
Each year the Board participates in a formal evaluation of its performance.
This year our evaluation was undertaken by an external facilitator, Tracy Long of John SteWart Boardroom Review.
Tracy is an experienced consultant chairman L&G AR10 06 p48-54 230311 AT.
