GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Corporate governance the bedrock for a successful Group We have made good progress during 2010 in improving the governance of Old Mutual to reect the changing business and regulatory environment.
Patrick OSullivan Chairman Achievements during 2010 Priorities for 2011 Q Roll-out of our new Group Operating Model Q Further Board training on Solvency II Q Separation of the functions of the Group Audit Q Focus on customer matters and Risk Committee into two Board-level Q More Board engagement with the businesses committees and their key employees and relationships Q Addressing other recommendations in the Q Continued emphasis on delivery of our strategic Walker Review objectives Q Board succession and renewal We have made good progress in a number of areas Director when Rudi retires at the 2011 AGM.
Since relating to the Groups governance during 2010.
The the year end, we have been delighted to welcome roll-out of our Group Operating Model, which is Eva Castillo, the first woman to join the Board, as a designed to provide greater assurance about the director and as a member of various Board effectiveness of the Companys strategic control Committees.
Nigel Andrews will leave the Board over the Groups businesses, moved successfully when he, too, retires as planned at the forthcoming from project mode into business as usual.
Further details of the new directors are contained in the Board of Directors section earlier At Board level, we established a separate in this Annual Report.
Board Risk Committee alongside the Group Audit Committee in line with recommendations As we implement our medium-term strategy, we contained in the Walker Review.
This new have a newly invigorated view of our core committee has made a sound start and has businesses and market strengths and an increased enabled more time and focus to be dedicated commitment to strengthening our links with to risk-specic issues, thereby contributing to Government, regulators and other stakeholders, the Boards own discussions of risk appetite and especially in South Africa.
related issues in the run-up to the implementation The Board has been actively engaged in monitoring of Solvency II.
We have also during 2010 widened the membership of the Boards standing and guiding progress against the various targets that the Company has set itself for delivery by the committees so that all of the non-executive directors now each serve on at least two end of 2012.
We remain committed to seeing these through to a successful conclusion and the such committees.
effectiveness of our governance arrangements We have been pleased to appoint three new is a key foundation for achieving them.
non-executive directors to our Board.
Roger Marshall joined us in August, succeeding Richard Patrick OSullivan Chairman Pym as Chairman of the Group Audit Committee.
Alan Gillespie was appointed as an independent 8 March 2011 non-executive director in November and will replace Rudi Bogni as our Senior Independent Patrick OSulivan Chairman 132 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
