Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Report by Brendan Nelson, Chairman The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available at www.
com and these are considered annually by the Audit Committee Membership and approved by the Board.
I assumed the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee on 28 April 2010, following the retirement of Archie Hunter.
The current members of the The Audit Committee is satisfied that it has complied with the relevant Committee are Colin Buchan, Philip Scott and myself.
Joe MacHale stood provisions of the Code and the new Code.
down from the Audit Committee with effect from 30 April 2010 and is now a member of the Board Risk Committee and Asset Protection Scheme Audit Committee Chairman APS Senior Oversight Committee.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I play a leading role in the setting of the annual agenda planner for the Committee and with the agenda for All members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive each Committee meeting.
Prior to every Committee meeting, I hold directors.
Colin Buchan and Philip Scott served throughout 2010, and I meetings with each of the Head of Group Internal Audit, the external became a member of the Committee with effect from 1 April 2010. auditors, the Group Finance Director and the Group Chief Accountant.
Attendance of each member at meetings of the Audit Committee in 2010 These meetings are instrumental in ensuring that I am briefed on all is shown on page 238. relevant issues and that these are brought to the attention of the Audit Committee.
The members of the Audit Committee are also members of the Board Risk Committee.
This common membership ensures effective Meetings and visits governance across all Finance and Risk issues, and that agendas are A total of seven meetings of the Audit Committee were held in 2010, aligned and overlap is avoided.
The Audit and Board Risk Committees including meetings held immediately prior to the submission of the interim also have strong links with the Remuneration Committee, with particular and annual financial statements to the Boards and the quarterly Interim regard to ensuring that relevant Finance and Risk matters are factored Management Statements.
Audit Committee meetings are attended by into the determination of appropriate levels of compensation.
relevant executive directors, the internal and external auditors and Finance and Risk management executives.
Other executives, subject The Board is satisfied that all Audit Committee members have recent and matter experts and external advisers are also invited to attend the Audit relevant financial experience, and that each member of the Audit Committee, as required, to present and advise on reports commissioned Committee is an Audit Committee Financial Expert and is independent, by the Committee.
At least twice per annum the Audit Committee meets each as defined in the SEC rules under the Exchange Act and related privately with the external auditors.
I am a Chartered Accountant, a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and a former Vice Chairman of The Audit Committees annual programme of visits to the Group's KPMG in the UK: Philip Scott is a fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and a business divisions and control functions continued in 2010, and these are former Group Finance Director of Aviva plc: and Colin Buchan is a Fellow now also attended by the Board Risk Committee.
The object of the of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Scotland and was a member of programme is to allow the Audit Committee and the Board Risk the group management board at UBS AG.
The members of the Audit Committee to gain a better understanding of the Group and an invitation Committee are selected with a view to the expertise and experience of to attend is extended to all non-executive directors.
The programme of the Audit Committee as a whole, and the Audit Committee reports to the future visits is considered annually.
The Audit Committee and the Board Board as a single entity.
Risk Committee undertook six visits in 2010.
These were to the Global Banking & Markets business: the Non-Core Division, Global Responsibilities Restructuring Group and the Asset Protection Scheme: Major Change The Audit Committees primary responsibilities are to: Projects ongoing in the Group: the US Asset-backed Securities business: Risk Management and the Global Banking & Markets, Global Transaction x assist the Group, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and National Services and Private Banking businesses in Asia.
Westminster Bank Plc Boards in discharging their responsibilities and in making all relevant disclosures in relation to the financial affairs of the Group: x review accounting and financial reporting and regulatory compliance: x review the Group's systems of internal control: and x monitor the Group's processes for internal audit and external audit.
240 RBS Group 2010 Governance Work in 2010 In its consideration of each of these issues, the aims of the Audit During 2010, the work of the Audit Committee focused on a number of Committee have been to: key areas, including: x understand and challenge the valuation and other accounting x accounting, financial reporting and regulatory compliance: judgments made by management: x impairments and fair values: x review the conclusions of the external auditors and, where applicable, other experts and to understand how they came to their x standards of internal control, including the work of the internal and conclusions: and external auditors: x satisfy itself that the disclosures in the financial statements about x provisioning and credit exposures: these estimates and valuations are transparent and appropriate.
x general insurance reserves: and The Audit Committee was regularly advised of whistleblowing events which occurred within the Group: of complaints raised with members of x the work and role of Divisional Risk and Audit Committees in so far the Groups executive team: of significant internal investigations as they relate to the work of the Committee.
undertaken within the Group: and of internal regulatory reviews and investigations.
The Audit Committee received regular updates on accounting issues and developments from both the Group Chief Accountant and from the Group Internal Audits role is to continuously assess how operating risks external auditors, who presented for approval to the Committee their are being managed and controlled throughout the Group and report audit plan, their audit fee proposal and engagement letter, as well as regularly to the Group Executive and Audit Committee on the results of confirmation of their independence and a comprehensive report of all these assessments: and to influence the continuous development of the non-audit fees.
risk management and control process through sharing best practice.
In addition the external auditors provided the Audit Committee with The Audit Committee oversees the work of Group Internal Audit, and reports summarising their main observations and conclusions arising receives a quarterly report from the Head of Group Internal Audit.
This from their year end audit, their half year review and their work in report rates the quality of the control environment of all the Groups connection with the first and third quarters, inter alia, inclusive of their divisions and of managements level of awareness on these matters.
comments on the issues set out below: and their recommendations for Group Internal Audit report to the Committee on areas where enhancements to the Groups reporting and controls.
improvements are required to the control environment.
The Audit Committee actively monitors these reports and ensures relevant matters The Audit Committee focused on a number of salient judgments and raised are dealt with in a timely and appropriate manner.
These reports reporting issues in the preparation of the 2010 accounts, including: offer the Audit Committee oversight of Group Internal Audits work, and allow the Audit Committee to monitor the level of internal control within x valuation methodologies and assumptions for financial instruments the Group.
carried at fair value including the Group's credit market exposures and the disclosures provided: The Audit Committee oversees the Groups compliance with the rules of the APS, and reviews regular progress reports from RBS Risk x actuarial assumptions for the Group Pension Fund: Management.
x impairment losses in the Group's portfolio of loans and advances Relevant management also presented on a number of specific reporting, and available-for-sale securities: compliance and internal control matters.
x impairment of goodwill and other purchased intangible assets: As far as it can determine, the Audit Committee received all the information and material it required to allow it to meet its obligations in x the Groups tax position, including the treatment of deferred tax respect of the 2010 financial statements.
assets: and x compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
RBS Group 2010 241 Corporate governance continued External auditors external auditors.
In order to make a recommendation to the Board, the Deloitte LLP has been the companys auditors since March 2000.
Audit Committee consider and discuss the performance of the external auditor in the previous year, taking account of the outcomes of the annual The Audit Committee undertakes an annual evaluation to assess the evaluation carried out.
The Board submits the Audit Committee's independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the recommendations to shareholders for their approval at the Annual effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant General Meeting.
The Board has endorsed the Audit Committee's professional and regulatory requirements.
The annual evaluation is recommendation that shareholders be requested to approve the carried out following completion of the annual accounts and audit.
reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditors at the Annual General Meeting in April 2011.
In assessing the effectiveness of the Groups external auditors the Audit Committee has regard to: The Audit Committee approves the terms of engagement of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee also fixes the remuneration of the external x the experience and expertise of the senior members of the auditors as authorised by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
engagement team: Audit and non-audit services x the proposed scope of the audit work planned and executed: The Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply audit and non-audit services, which takes into x the quality of the dialogue between the external auditors, the account relevant legislation regarding the provision of such services by Committee and senior management: an external audit firm.
x the clarity, quality and robustness of written reports presented to the In particular, the Group may not engage the external auditors to provide Committee setting out the external auditors findings arising from the any of the non-audit services described below: audit: x bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or x the quality of the observations provided to the company by the financial statements: external auditor on the Groups systems of internal control: and x financial information systems design and implementation: x the views of management on the performance of the external auditors.
x appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution-inkind reports: The outcomes of the evaluation were considered by the Audit Committee and Board.
x actuarial services: In addition to the annual evaluation performed by the Audit Committee, x internal audit outsourcing services: the external auditors conduct their own annual review of audit quality.
x management functions or human resources: Twelve service criteria for the audit have been defined by the external auditors to measure their performance against the quality commitments x broker or dealer, investment adviser, or investment banking services: set out in their annual audit plan, under the headings of quality of audit approach and conduct, independence and objectivity, quality of the x legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit: or team and value added.
A questionnaire is completed by each Divisional CFO and each Divisional Risk and Audit Committee chairman x other services determined to be impermissible by the US Public after the completion of the annual audit and by relevant members of Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Group management and the Audit Committee.
A follow up interview is held with each of them by senior partners independent of their immediate The Audit Committee reviews the policy annually and prospectively service teams.
The results of this exercise will be presented to the Audit approves the provision of audit services and certain non-audit services by Committee, with actions defined and agreed to address any areas where the external auditors.
performance has fallen below expected standards.
Annual audit services include all services detailed in the annual The external auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partner engagement letter including the annual audit and interim reviews responsible for the audit every five years and, in 2010, a new audit including US reporting requirements and periodic profit verifications.
partner was appointed to lead the audit for the year ending 31 December 2010.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the company's Annual audit services also include statutory or non-statutory audits choice of external auditor.
required by any Group companies that are not incorporated in the UK.
Terms of engagement for these audits are agreed separately with The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the management, and are consistent with those set out in the audit Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the engagement letter insofar as local regulations permit.
242 RBS Group 2010 Governance Prospectively approved non-audit services include the following classes The evaluation concluded that the Audit Committee operated effectively of service: throughout 2010.
The Committee was seen as effective in meeting its objectives, with members willing to spend the time necessary to do a x capital raising, including consents, comfort letters and relevant good job.
It was agreed that the new Chairman was a strong addition to reviews of registration statements: the Committee, in particular given his strong financial background.
The evaluation concluded that, whilst the Committee was of the appropriate x provision of accounting opinions relating to the financial statements size to discharge its responsibilities and the members had the of the Group: appropriate skills and experience, Committee composition should be kept under review to ensure that the correct balance of skills and experience is x provision of reports that, according to law or regulation, must be maintained.
The training and specific sessions on individual businesses rendered by the external auditors: and divisions were highly rated.
x tax compliance services: The Committee has considered and discussed the report on the outcomes of the evaluation and is satisfied with the way in which the x permissible services relating to companies that will remain outside evaluation has been conducted, the conclusions and the the Group: recommendations for action.
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board and the actions are being progressed.
x restructuring services relating to the Group's customers: and An external review of the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit takes x reports providing assurance to third parties over certain of the place every three to five years, in line with best practice, with internal Group's internal controls prepared under US Statement of Auditing reviews continuing in the intervening years.
In 2010, an external review Standards 70 or similar auditing standards in other jurisdictions.
was conducted by Ernst & Young.
In May 2010, the Audit Committee was presented with the final report by Ernst & Young.
The report found that For all other permitted non-audit services, Audit Committee approval Group Internal Audit was compliant with all relevant professional must be sought, on a case by case basis, before the provision of the standards.
In August 2010, the Audit Committee approved changes to the existing non-audit services policy.
The new streamlined In January 2011 the Audit Committee undertook an internal evaluation of process allows for the Chairman of the Audit Committee or, in his Group Internal Audit.
The Committee sought views from members and absence, a designated delegate to approve any non-audit services attendees of the Committee, the external auditor, Divisional Chief Executive Officers and Finance Directors, Divisional Risk and Audit request with a value under 100,000.
Any request with a value above this amount must be approved by the full Audit Committee.
To ensure good Committee and subsidiary audit committee Chairmen.
The evaluation governance all requests, regardless of financial limits, have to be concluded that Group Internal Audit had operated effectively throughout approved by the Group Chief Accountant and Group Sourcing and 2010.
At each Audit Committee meeting, any non-audit Divisional Risk and Audit Committees services requests which have been approved since the previous meeting Since 2005, Divisional Audit Committees have been responsible for are considered for ratification.
reviewing each division's business.
Following the creation of the Board Risk Committee in January 2010, the Groups Divisional Audit In addition, the Audit Committee reviews and monitors the independence Committees became Divisional Risk and Audit Committees and their and objectivity of the external auditors when it approves non-audit work to terms of reference were revised to ensure full alignment with the Audit be carried out by them, taking into consideration relevant legislation, Committee and Board Risk Committee.
With input from the Audit ethical guidance and the level of non-audit services relative to audit Committee, Board Risk Committee, Group Finance and Group Risk, a services.
The approval process is rigorously applied to prevent the new framework was approved by the Audit Committee and Board Risk auditors from functioning in the role of management, auditing their own Committee in December 2010 and implemented in January 2011. work, or serving in an advocacy role.
Information on the audit and nonaudit services carried out by the external auditors is detailed in Note 5 to the Groups accounts.
Performance evaluation An external review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee takes place every three to five years, with internal reviews by the Board continuing in the intervening years.
An internal review of the effectiveness Brendan Nelson of the Audit Committee during 2010 was conducted.
The evaluation used Chairman of the Audit Committee detailed questionnaires and individual meetings were held with each 23 February 2011 member.
Amongst the areas reviewed were the role of the Committee, composition, meetings and processes, performance and reporting, policy and procedures, divisional committees, induction and continuing professional development and communication.
