Corporate governance continued Board Risk Committee Report by Philip Scott, Chairman Meetings and visits A total of nine meetings of the Board Risk Committee were held during Membership 2010.
Meetings are held as soon as practicable prior to Audit Committee I have been Chairman of the Board Risk Committee since its formation in meetings to ensure that the work of the two Committees is coordinated January 2010, and I am a member of the Committee along with Colin and consistent.
A meeting is held immediately prior to submission of the Buchan, Sandy Crombie, Brendan Nelson and Joe MacHale.
We all interim and annual financial statements to the Board and the quarterly served throughout 2010 with the exception of Brendan Nelson who Interim Management Statements.
This core programme is supplemented became a member of the Committee with effect from 1 April 2010.
All by additional meetings as required.
Board Risk Committee meetings are members of the Board Risk Committee are independent non-executive attended by relevant executive directors, risk management, finance directors.
Attendance of each member at meetings of the Board Risk executives and the internal auditors.
External advice may be sought by Committee in 2010 is shown on page 238. the Board Risk Committee where considered appropriate.
Archie Hunter was a member of the Board Risk Committee until 28 April The Board Risk Committee took part in an annual programme of visits to 2010 when he stood down as a non-executive director at the end of his the Group's business divisions and control functions in 2010, along with existing term.
The object of the programme is to allow the Board Risk Committee and the Audit Committee to gain a better understanding Colin Buchan, Brendan Nelson and I are also members of the Audit of the Group and an invitation to attend is extended to all non-executive Committee.
This common membership ensures effective governance directors.
The programme of future visits is considered annually.
The across all Finance and Risk issues, and that agendas are aligned and Board Risk Committee and the Audit Committee undertook six visits in overlap is avoided.
The Board Risk Committee and Audit Committee 2010.
These were to the Global Banking & Markets business: the Nonalso have strong links with the Remuneration Committee, with particular Core Division, Global Restructuring Group and the Asset Protection regard to ensuring that relevant Finance and Risk matters are factored in Scheme: Major Change Projects ongoing in the Group: the US Assetto the determination of appropriate levels of compensation.
backed Securities business: Risk Management and the Global Banking & Markets, Global Transaction Services and Private Banking businesses in The Board Risk Committee is responsible for: Asia.
Work in 2010 x providing oversight and advice to the Group, The Royal Bank of During 2010, the work of the Board Risk Committee focused on a wide Scotland plc and National Westminster Bank Plc Boards the range of matters, including the following key areas: Boards in relation to current and potential future risk exposures of the Group and risk strategy, including determination of risk appetite x risk strategy and policy: and tolerance: x risk profile: x reviewing the performance of the Group relative to risk appetite: x risk appetite, framework and limits: x assisting on such other matters as may be referred to it by the Boards: x risk management operating model: and x oversight of the effectiveness of key Group policies, referred to as x remuneration.
the Group Policy Framework: x promoting a risk awareness culture within the Group: and x reporting to the Group Board, identifying any matters within its remit in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The terms of reference of the Board Risk Committee are available at www.
com and these are considered annually by the Board Risk Committee and approved by the Board.
Qualitative and quantitative information regarding the risks arising from the Group's financial instruments required under International Financial Reporting Standard 7 are incorporated within the financial statements and Business review.
244 RBS Group 2010 Governance At each meeting of the Board Risk Committee, the Group Chief Risk The Committee considered the adequacy and effectiveness of the Officer provided the Committee with a presentation on the key risk technology infrastructure supporting the finance and risk management issues faced by the Group.
An update was also given on the key framework.
issues discussed at the Groups Executive Risk Forum.
In 2010 the Board Risk Committee considered a range of matters including: The Committee reviewed the risk input to divisional bonus pools and provided advice to the Remuneration Committee on risk weightings to x the Groups economic capital model: be applied to performance objectives which are incorporated within the incentive structure for the Group's senior executives.
The Committee x the structured credit portfolio: also reviewed clawback proposals made by Group Human Resources and made recommendations to the Remuneration Committee in this x the output of stress testing and scenario planning: respect.
x the operational plan for the Groups risk management function As required under the Walker Review, the Committee will meet as including organisation, resource and budget: required to review the due diligence of any proposed strategic transaction involving a merger, acquisition or disposal prior to the x treating customers fairly and customer complaints: and Group Board approval of the transaction.
Performance evaluation x remuneration strategy and policy, including recommendations to An internal review of the effectiveness of the Board Risk Committee the Remuneration Committee.
The evaluation used detailed questionnaires and individual meetings were held with each member.
The Board Risk Committee played a key oversight role in the review, Amongst the areas reviewed were the Role of the Committee, design and implementation of risk management and measurement Composition, Meetings and Processes, Performance and Reporting, strategies and risk management policy across the Group.
Policy and Procedures, Divisional Committees, Induction and Continuing Professional Development and Communication.
The Board Risk Committee considered the Group's risk profile relative to current and future Group strategy.
The Committee reported to the The evaluation concluded that the Board Risk Committee operated Board following each meeting on its consideration of the risk profile of effectively throughout 2010.
The Committee was seen as effective in the Group and any longer term macro or perceived strategic threats to meeting its objectives, although it was acknowledged that this was a the Group and made recommendations as appropriate.
relatively new Committee having only been formed in January 2010.
The evaluation concluded that the commitment of its members was The Group Policy Framework provides a basis for ongoing selfoutstanding, with members willing to spend the time necessary to assessment of appropriate risk appetite.
The Board Risk Committee discharge the Committee's responsibilities.
As a new Committee, the received regular reports on the development of the Group Policy structure, content and length of Committee meetings was considered Framework during 2010. to be appropriate.
It was acknowledged that the Committee makes the best use of skills, experience and competencies of its members and a The Group risk appetite framework was developed significantly during high level of technical expertise was required of members.
2010 and continues to be enhanced.
Risk appetite was regularly reviewed by the Board Risk Committee, which makes The Committee considered and discussed the report on the outcomes recommendations to the Board on risk appetite and tolerance as part of the evaluation and is satisfied with the way in which the evaluation of this ongoing process.
This includes the Risk Management Operating was conducted, the conclusions and the recommendations for action.
Model, including the frameworks for credit, operational, regulatory, The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board and market, insurance and business continuity risk.
the actions are being progressed.
The Committee also considered the Group's exposure to country, Divisional Risk and Audit Committees single name and sector concentration risk and ensured rigorous stress Since 2005, Divisional Audit Committees have been responsible for and scenario testing of the Group's business was undertaken.
The reviewing each division's business.
Following the creation of the Board output of this testing was reviewed by the Board Risk Committee Risk Committee in January 2010, the Groups Divisional Audit throughout 2010 with a view to ensuring appropriate actions were Committees became Divisional Risk and Audit Committees and their taken where necessary.
It made recommendations to the Group Board terms of reference were revised to ensure full alignment with the Audit regarding related authorities, limits and mandates.
Committee and Board Risk Committee.
With input from the Audit Committee, Board Risk Committee, Group Finance and Group Risk, a In February 2010, the Committee was presented with and approved new framework was approved by the Audit Committee and Board Risk the RBS Risk Management operational plan, considering the adequacy Committee in December 2010 and implemented in January 2011. and effectiveness of resource and the scope and nature of the work undertaken by the function.
Philip Scott Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 23 February 2011 RBS Group 2010 245
