Dunelm Group plc 21 Annual report and accounts 2010 Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, I am writing to set out for you our approach to executive reward at Dunelm.
I hope you find this adds to your understanding of our culture and our way of doing business.
In preparation for our flotation on the main market in 2006, with the benefit of a clean sheet of paper, we designed the simplest, most transparent remuneration structure for Executive Directors that we could whilst following best practice, the Combined Code as it then was and the Association of British Insurers guidelines.
Our aims were to pay fairly for the role and responsibilities of each director and to incentivise strongly for value creation, with an emphasis on the long-term.
In keeping with Dunelms family background our overriding principle was to design a structure where directors become strongly aligned with business goals by virtue of share ownership.
We believe strong alignment of ownership by Executive Directors is the single most important factor in an effective remuneration structure.
From flotation we adopted the traditional three-pronged remuneration structure comprising basic salary including benefits, an annual cash bonus and a three-year share-based Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Basic salary was initially set just below median levels for comparator companies at that time.
However, a consequence of our growth, store roll-out programme and new business initiatives over the last few years has been to increase the operational scale of the executives roles and make them more complex.
It is important to recognise this appropriately and for 2010 11 we have increased David Steads salary ahead of inflation and ahead of the Company-wide increase, to reflect both his performance and his increased responsibilities.
Will Adderley has indicated that, as a large shareholder, he does not need or wish to take an increase in salary above the general Company level.
We initially set the maximum annual cash bonus opportunity at 60% of basic salary.
From 2010 11 we have increased this to 100%, which we see as a more typical level in peer companies.
We set the maximum LTIP award at 120% of basic salary.
This level will be maintained for the October 2010 conditional LTIP award, although we now recognise that 120% is lower than some competitor companies and we will review this against market practice prior to next years award.
We feel that the balance between short-term bonus and longer-term reward is important in order to maintain the focus on the long-term as well as helping to build up a directors alignment.
To encourage alignment, we require Executive Directors to build a shareholding equivalent to at least 2x their basic salary.
This is a high multiple relative to the market norm.
For both the annual bonus and LTIP we chose to use fully diluted earnings per share EPS as the only financial performance measure.
We did this after careful consideration on the basis that EPS is audited, easy to understand and simple to measure.
It is also a main driver of share price and is a reasonable proxy for value, provided capital investment is monitored.
We recognise that, with EPS as the only measure, it is essential that the Board controls both capital investment and leverage to ensure the business is driven to increase shareholder value, and these are part of our regular Board processes.
Our approach has always been to do things properly whilst doing what is appropriate for Dunelms particular circumstances.
Therefore we set a very high EPS hurdle requiring EPS compound annual growth to reach the increase in the retail price index RPI plus 20% for maximum LTIP vesting.
This was at the very top end of the benchmark spectrum for LTIPs but felt right for a growing company.
However, in 2008 and 2009 we reduced this to RPI 12% given the worsening economic outlook.
We remain committed to reviewing the hurdles carefully every year.
The remuneration of below-Board executive committee members is handled by the Chief Executive with guidance from the Remuneration Committee.
This tier of management is incentivised by a discretionary annual bonus scheme with matching nil cost share options, deferred for three years.
We are also considering a shareholding requirement for the executive committee and other senior managers.
In early 2010, following the first LTIP vesting, we conducted a full Remuneration Review with the whole Board where we looked at how our original policies have suited us and how the Directors involved have been rewarded.
We concluded that we should leave the basic structure unchanged for as long as possible whilst looking carefully at the base salaries and performance conditions each year.
As with all such decisions in Dunelm, the Remuneration Committees stance is to try and take decisions which are fair for the individuals and best for the business long-term.
I hope therefore, that shareholders will feel that our approach to executive pay is aligned with their interests.
Dunelm Group plc 22 Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continued Following the year-end, we have set the remuneration terms for Nick Wharton when he becomes a full-time Executive Director from 1 December 2010 as Chief Executive Designate, and from February 2011 as Chief Executive.
Nicks remuneration will follow Dunelms established policy.
He will receive a basic salary of 400,000 per annum plus benefits including car allowance, medical and life insurance and a pension contribution equivalent to 10% of salary.
He will participate in the annual bonus and the LTIP scheme, both of which will be adjusted pro-rata to length of employment in respect of FY2011.
On joining, Nick will receive a one-off cash payment of 150,000 in lieu of his annual bonus foregone.
Subject to shareholder approval, he will also receive a one-off grant of nil cost share options to a value of 1,000,000 at date of joining in compensation for long-term incentive payment foregone.
This will vest, subject only to continuing employment, after five years.
The Remuneration Committee believes this is an important incentive to ensure alignment of his interests with those of shareholders in the context of long-term commitment to the business.
To reinforce this alignment, Nick will be required to build a shareholding of at least two times basic salary over time.
Yours faithfully, Marion Sears Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 16 September 2010
