Dunelm Group plc 16 Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Letter from the Chairman Dear Shareholder, In an effort to improve communication and increase understanding of Dunelm, I thought it would be helpful to introduce the Corporate Governance section in our annual report.
In addition, as remuneration is such an important subject, I have asked Marion Sears to write to you separately outlining our approach to executive pay and you will find this on page 21.
It is my experience that whilst shareholders rightly expect the Board to take collective responsibility for all published information, they also appreciate a sharp sense of accountability where individual directors take the lead on a particular issue.
We are very clear at Dunelm that the Board should have an involved and active role in supporting the Executive Directors and the senior management team.
We aim, as a minimum, to incorporate best practice and to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code in all respects but we have also formed some guidelines of our own that we feel improve the role of the Board and are in keeping with our positive and energetic culture.
We have worked hard to compose a Board with diversity of thought.
This includes appointing non-executive directors NEDs with diverse backgrounds including executive positions in other companies.
Our NEDs have experience and diverse perspectives of issues of direct interest to Dunelm, including a range of business models, challenges involved in consumer markets, City and investor experience and retail knowledge.
With the help of the finance and Company secretarial departments we manage and administer corporate governance ourselves internally and the NEDs are actively involved in this.
There is a strong collegiate and respectful relationship between the Executive and NEDs.
All the NEDs aim to visit a store once a month, often with a member of the senior management team.
This is helpful in fostering our understanding of business issues as well as communicating internally from head office to store teams and vice versa.
In addition, Board meetings are often held in store or at other Company locations and include presentations from managers within the business.
Shareholder feedback is regularly monitored, with NEDs joining management in a selection of shareholder meetings following our results announcements.
We will continue to attend a sample of meetings, however, if any shareholder wishes to meet with any of the NEDs without management present to discuss Dunelm then this can be arranged through our advisers.
We have announced a key development for Dunelm with the appointment of Will Adderley as Executive Deputy Chairman and of Nick Wharton as Chief Executive.
These changes have been made following a thorough review by the Board of the needs of the business to support its future development.
This review included benchmarking of external candidates for the Chief Executive role through an executive search company.
Yours faithfully, Geoff Cooper Chairman 16 September 2010
