53 executive Directors with non-UK service agreements typically receive External appointments retirement benefits consistent with local practice.
In particular, in The Board recognises the benefit which GKN can obtain if executive accordance with standard practice in the US, GKN makes a total annual Directors of GKN serve as non-executive directors of other companies.
contribution equivalent to 11% of William Seegers basic salary and any Subject to review in each case, the Boards general policy is that each STVrS payment made in the relevant year to his qualified and non-qualified executive Director may accept one non-executive directorship with defined contribution pension arrangement.
The amount contributed by another company but not the chairmanship of a FTSe 1MM company GKN is deducted from the supplementary allowance that would from which the Director may retain the fees.
otherwise have been payable to him a maximum of 4M% of salary.
Nigel Stein is a non-executive director of Wolseley plc.
He retains the fee Service agreements payable in respect of this appointment currently 61,8MM per annum.
The Boards current policy is that, unless local employment practice requires otherwise, the notice period in executive Directors service Chairman and non-executive Directors agreements is one year.
With the exception of William Seeger, the Remuneration policy executive Directors service agreements have no fixed term.
William The remuneration policy for the Chairman and the other non-executive Seeger has a US service agreement, also terminable on one years Directors is for recompense by way of fees in line with those paid by notice, which terminates, in any event, on 31 December 2M16 unless other UK listed companies of comparable size.
Such fees may include extended by prior agreement with Mr Seeger.
additional payments to the Senior Independent Director and in respect of the chairmanship of Board Committees to reflect the significant extra There is no contractual provision for predetermined compensation responsibilities attached to these positions.
payable upon early termination of an executive Directors service agreement, other than in the event of early termination following a The fees of the non-executive Directors other than the Chairman, change of control of GKN plc.
In the event of such an early termination together with any additional fees payable to the Senior Independent other than on a change of control the remuneration Committee would Director and the Chairmen of Board Committees, are determined by the apply the principles of the severance policy adopted by the Board.
Board upon the recommendation of the Chairman and Chief executive Under this policy, which may be varied in individual cases, an and are set at a level that the Board believes will attract individuals with immediate lump sum severance payment will be made to the Director the necessary experience and ability to make a substantial contribution equivalent to one years basic salary plus one years pension to the Groups affairs.
The fees received by the Chairman are determined contributions.
Consideration would be given to the inclusion in the by the remuneration Committee.
No Director participates in deliberations severance payment of additional elements relating to short term concerning his own fee.
Current annual fee levels, which remain unchanged variable remuneration and major benefits in kind.
However, such since 2MM8, are as follows: additional elements will not normally be included where the severance Base fee 000 is as a result of underperformance.
Consideration would also be given to making the severance payment in 12 equal instalments which will Chairman 3MM only be paid to the extent that the Director has not been able to mitigate Non-executive Directors 5M his loss by the date of the relevant payment.
Additional fees 000 In the event of the service agreement coming to an end by mutual Senior Independent Director 5 consent, the remuneration Committee will approve such termination audit Committee Chairman 11 arrangements as are appropriate in the particular circumstances.
remuneration Committee Chairman 1M If, in breach of its terms, termination of a Directors service agreement occurs on less than due notice within 12 months following a change in Neither the Chairman nor the other non-executive Directors participate control of GKN plc, a predetermined amount is payable to the Director in the Groups short term variable remuneration or long term incentive equivalent to one years basic salary, pension contributions, benefits in arrangements or in its pension scheme, nor do they receive benefits in kind.
kind and loss of entitlements under performance-related short term Terms of appointment remuneration arrangements.
No right to such a payment arises simply The terms of service of the Chairman and other non-executive Directors by virtue of a change in control.
are contained in letters of appointment.
an enhancement to the pension rights of an executive Director upon roy Brown became Chairman in May 2MM4 for an initial period of three early retirement will only be considered in exceptional cases and a full years, this term being subsequently extended to 2M1M, terminable at any costing would be provided to the remuneration Committee at the time time upon 12 months notice by either party.
In 2MM9, by resolution of the of its deliberations.
In any event, such enhancement would not be Board, his term was further extended until the date of the Companys considered unless objectives set for the Director had been met or it was aGM in 2M12.
The current policy for other non-executive Directors is to otherwise merited in the opinion of the remuneration Committee.
serve on the Board for nine years with interim renewals after three and six It is also the Boards policy that, at the time of consideration of a proposed years, subject to mutual agreement and annual performance reviews.
appointment of an executive Director, the remuneration Committee appointments may be terminated upon 3 months notice by either party will take into account the likely cost of severance in determining the and there are no provisions for compensation in the event of termination.
appropriateness of the proposed terms of appointment.
In accordance roy Browns letter of appointment provides for the payment of fees up to with the relevant provisions of the Companies act 2MM6, no payment the date of the 2M12 aGM in the event that his service is terminated by the will be made to a Director for loss of office or employment with the Company other than in accordance with his letter of appointment.
Company in excess of the Directors contractual obligations without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M
