Board reports CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION As Chairman I have taken a leading role in shaping the governance agenda and wanted to take this opportunity to address shareholders on what I believe are the important governance developments at IMI over the last year.
First, following the publication in June 2010 of the UK Corporate Governance Code by the Financial Reporting Council, the Board reflected on how it operates and prepared for the new Code coming into effect in 2011.
As a result the Board put together a new core document, the IMI Corporate Governance Framework, to restate and update the various statements of roles and responsibilities at Board level which were previously in place.
The framework was agreed by the Board in December 2010 and is on the Companys website.
For me the most significant features are the increased emphases on strategy and risk, which are already reflected in the focus of the Board during meetings.
Secondly, I am encouraged that the Company is continuing to develop senior talent in-house and one of the great strengths of the successful management team at IMI is their length of service, experience of the businesses and long-term perspective in planning and operational decisions.
Recent promotions include the appointment of a fourth executive director, Ian Whiting, adding to the depth and breadth of management representation on the Board and this, in conjunction with other changes in operational management responsibilities, allows the Chief Executive, Martin Lamb, to increase his focus on the delivery of the Companys strategic objectives.
The other changes include the addition of Sean Toomes, President of Indoor Climate, to the Executive Committee.
On the non-executive side of the Board, we have a strong team of four independent directors with varied backgrounds and experience.
They have all been IMI directors for several years and all are familiar with the businesses and enjoy opportunities for contact with the wider management group at formal Board meetings, management conferences and visits to IMI facilities.
In 2010 the non-executives and I have each visited a number of facilities around the Group individually and four of us attended the official opening of a major new IMI factory in the Czech Republic.
In January 2011 the non-executive team again joined the top senior managers at IMIs annual senior management conference, which was held in Shanghai and combined with visits to IMI operations in China.
Norman B M Askew Chairman 2 March 2011 42 BOARD REPORTS
