Strategy Performance Governance Financials In this section 54 Chairmans Introduction Governance 56 Board of Directors 58 Corporate Governance Report 73 Other Information 78 Directors Remuneration Report Chairmans Introduction The challenging economic and business environment Our business and the risks we face are constantly changing.
reinforces the need for effective leadership and high standards Weregularly review our policies and risk management of corporate governance.
We are confident that the strong procedures to ensure they are up-to-date and continue to leadership provided by our newly appointed Chief Executive appropriately protect our stakeholders.
During the year we and her fellow Directors will ensure we remain in a position to brought together into a single Commercial Integrity Department deliver our growth strategy.
This strong leadership is supported those activities with responsibility for reviewing and managing by our long-established and embedded governance practices, the enhancement by the business of our anti-illicit trade robust internal controls, remuneration policy, and our high strategies, the legal protection of our brands and the driving ethical standards.
ofgood corporate and individual conduct across the Group.
Our Corporate Structure Explained It is impossible to eliminate every risk.
However, through our We have two main businesses: tobacco and logistics.
Our Risk Co-ordination Committee we analyse risks by reference tobacco business comprises the manufacture, marketing and to the likelihood of them occurring and their potential impact.
sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products.
Our logistics This top down process complements our long established business comprises the distribution of tobacco products for riskmanagement controls which are embedded across the major tobacco manufacturers, including Imperial Tobacco, as business.
Further information relating to the management well as a wide range of non-tobacco products and services.
ofrisk during the year is set out on pages 25 to 27.
What Does Good Governance Mean To Us?
We also encourage employees to raise concerns they To us good governance means ensuring the right processes mayhave, including anything they believe to be wrong or are inplace to support our strategic direction.
Our public interest disclosure whistleblowing strategy we must maintain appropriate controls to minimise policy allows employees to do this safe in the knowledge unacceptable risk to our stakeholders whilst also maintaining thatthey will not suffer any detriment as a consequence.
an environment which enables our management to effectively Key Achievements in 2010 implement that strategy.
Good governance also means In May 2010 Mr G Davis retired as Chief Executive and, after ensuring we treat our stakeholders in a fair and just manner.
arigorous succession process, Mrs A J Cooper was identified How We Achieve Good Governance In Practice as having the skills and expertise to drive the future growth Our Executive Directors have a wealth of experience in the ofthe business and was appointed his successor.
tobacco industry, complemented and supplemented by We largely completed the integration of Altadis, including thewide range of business and financial experience of our embedding our processes and internal controls.
In addition we have continued to enhance our risk Our Directors experience, oversight, strong leadership and management and anti-illicit trade processes by further constructive challenge of key decisions ensures we take developing the approach of the Risk Co-ordination Committee ourbusiness in the right strategic direction and provides an and establishing our Commercial IntegrityDepartment.
environment in which our corporate strategy can be delivered.
On 27 September 2010 we signed a co-operation agreement We believe good governance is not just a matter for the with the European Commission and the Member States of the Boardbut must be embraced throughout the organisation European Union.
Under the co-operation agreement we will and we have reinforced this during the year by the roll-out work together with the European Commission and the law ofour updated Code of Conduct.
enforcement authorities of the Member States of the European Union to jointly tackle the smuggling and counterfeiting of Both our tobacco and logistics businesses are managed tobacco products.
within our Corporate Governance framework and are subject to our policies and control procedures.
However, we run our In addition we have rolled-out our new Code of Conduct to logistics business on an operationally neutral basis in order over 600 managers in more than 40 workshops.
The Code toensure that all its customers are treated equally.
ofConduct has been published on our intranet and has been translated into our key business languages.
The roll-out will Managing Risk beextended to the wider employee base during 2011.
The Group faces a number of risks, similar to those faced bymany multinational companies, which may impact Key Priorities for 2011 ourfinancial position or prevent us from achieving our In light of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in corporate strategy.
Successful management of these June 2010 we are reviewing and, if appropriate, will enhance risksisfundamental to our sustainable profitability and our governance and internal control processes.
support our sustainable sales growth strategy, our priorities for 54 High standards of corporate governance and responsible management underpin our sales growth strategy.
Iain Napier Chairman 2011 include the further enhancement of our anti-illicit trade activities to assist in combating both the smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products and, following the signing of the co-operation agreement, further building on our partnership with the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union.
We also intend to complete the roll-out of training regarding our updated Code of Conduct which sets out the standards of responsible behaviour that all our employees are expected to follow and forms a key part of our preparations for ensuring compliance with the UK Bribery Act.
We are also embedding an e-learning system to further support this training.
On 1 October 2010 the Chief Executives Committee was replaced by the Operating Executive and the Development Executive to enhance support for our sustainable sales growth strategy.
During 2011 this revised management structure will be embedded into the business.
Our governance processes support and underpin our sustainable sales growth strategy and we will continue to drivethese during the year.
We will also continue to support reasonable regulation oftobacco products but will challenge regulation that undermines the principles of adult choice and the freedom ofcompetition.
Looking ahead I believe that achieving these key priorities willput us in a strong position to build on our track record of creating long-term sustainable value for our shareholders and provide a strong platform for growth throughout the business.
Iain Napier Chairman Achievements in 2010 Priorities for 2011 Review compliance with the new UK Corporate Appointment of new Chief Executive Governance Code Altadis integration in final stages moving towards business as normal Further enhance anti-illicit trade activities, including building on our partnership with the EU and Member States Ongoing enhancement of our risk management processes Complete roll-out of updated Code of Conduct Enhancement of our anti-illicit tradeactivities including signing co-operation agreement with the EU and Ensure compliance with provisions of the UK Bribery Act MemberStates Embed our new management structure 55
