BUSINESS REVIEW Risks and uncertainties Types of risk Meggitts risk management framework includes a formal process for identifying, assessing and responding to risk in relation to the groups We monitor risk across four strategy and business objectives.
broad categories markets, operations, finance and corporate.
The risks outlined Risk management operates at all levels throughout Meggitt, across below, which are not presented business lines, geographies and functions.
The Board is responsible in any order of priority, are for risk management including maintaining the groups risk governance those the group believes are structure and an appropriate internal control framework see page 36. the principal ones it faces.
However, additional risks, of which the group is unaware, or risks the group does not consider material, could have an adverse impact.
Governance structure Markets Board Competition Product demand Operations Acquisitions Contracts Ethics and Trade Management Audit Committee Compliance Board Equipment fault Committee Supply chain Transformation programme Finance Credit Exchange rates Financing Property Interest rates Tax Internal Export law Health, risks compliance audits compliance safety and Retirement bene ts funding reviews reviews audits environmental audits Corporate Environmental Corporate assurance Legal and regulatory programme People Divisions Individual business units 26 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
indd 26 26 09 03 2010 09 03 2010 14:16 14:16 Risk identi cation and mitigating actions implemented Internal control risks Ethics and trade compliance risks Other risks Risk description Potential impact Mitigation action Markets - Competition We compete in a highly competitive global market that Protecting our positions by maintaining a has experienced signi cant consolidation in recent years.
Losing contracts to competitors, some of whom have greater Maintaining diverse products and operations financial, technological and marketing resources, or being to reduce the effect of action by any single forced to accept lower margins, would have an adverse competitor.
Developing proprietary intellectual Losing key intellectual property or failing to enforce its property and products in markets that rights could hinder our development and provide competitor demand high levels of technology, quality advantage.
and service and strong, long-term Meggitts competitive position would suffer were it unable relationships with customers.
to invest in R&D and provide cash and equipment incentives Maintaining a robust intellectual property to original equipment manufacturers.
especially in aerospace, decrease cash ow in the shortMaintaining the highest manufacturing and term, which is recovered only through revenue streams that quality standards and attending to individual arise over many years.
Ensuring good operational cash ow and available finance.
- Product demand Any reduction in military spending or reordering of Spreading our activities across the civil priorities, particularly by Meggitts largest customer, the US aerospace, military and energy markets.
Government, could affect our revenues adversely.
Generating revenues from original equipment manufacturers and aftermarket A signi cant or prolonged downturn due to recession, services.
commodity prices, terrorist attack or aerospace regulations Operating across different geographical would decrease demand for the groups products from civil regions.
Maintaining, where practical, a exible Since the start of the recession, several airlines and business cost base.
jet operators have parked a number of aircraft and deferred Reducing costs to partially mitigate any new deliveries.
This will adversely affect our revenues.
Operations Meggitt continues to pursue acquisitions as part of its Undertaking due diligence.
Such acquisitions may not realise Implementing comprehensive business expected bene ts.
Obtaining representations, warranties and indemnities from vendors where possible.
Multi-year, xed price contracts with original equipment Ensuring estimates of cost are based on - Contracts manufacturing customers expose us to variations in reliable historic data and, where possible, production costs.
by entry into multi-year, xed price contracts with major suppliers.
The group is subject to contracting risks with the US Maintaining guidelines for doing business Government which can impose a range of sanctions in with the US Government as part of the response to violations.
groups Ethics and Business Conduct Programme.
Meggitts products generally operate in extreme Designing manufacturing processes that - Equipment fault environments where a serious incident arising from ensure stringent quality and reliability failure could result in liabilities for personal injury or standards.
death and damage to our reputation.
The group may also Protecting the group from future product be subject to material product warranty obligations to liability claims subject to coverage limits third parties for equipment it manufactures and services.
We rely on our own manufacturing operations and Maintaining signi cant investment in - Supply chain independent suppliers for key raw materials and modernising facilities and improving components, some of which may be available from production processes to develop leading a limited number of suppliers.
Any disruption to the manufacturing operations.
supply chain could have an impact on our ability to meet Maintaining a supplier risk assessment customer requirements and adversely affect the groups programme.
Subjecting robust business continuity plans to regular testing to manage the risk of a loss of a major facility or supplier.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 27 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
indd 27 27 09 03 2010 09 03 2010 14:16 14:16 BUSINESS REVIEW RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Risk description Potential impact Mitigation action Operations continued - Transformation The group is in the process of a major reorganisation Monitoring and responding to feedback from programme to ensure it emerges from the recession leaner, more customers, which has been positive to date.
competitive and better placed to respond to customers Implementing proven programme requirements.
This is being achieved by adjusting management processes used in previous headcount in line with volumes, removing a layer of transformational initiatives, such as the management, implementing common IT solutions to integration of the Dunlop Aerospace and enable shared services, streamlining other back of ce K&F businesses.
and administrative activity and reviewing discretionary Resourcing the programme effectively expenditure.
with a full-time team of senior Meggitt managers working across functions Risks associated with such reorganisations include and facilities, supported by third-party changes being adversely received by customers, new specialists where appropriate.
internal processes including common IT solutions not Phasing in systems changes and introducing being implemented effectively and anticipated costs shared services in a controlled manner.
Realising run-rate savings equal to or exceeding targets.
Finance - Credit Credit risk exists in relation to customers, Maintaining rigorous credit control banks and insurers.
Monitoring relationships with banks and other counterparty risks through our treasury function.
Selecting insurers with good credit ratings.
- Exchange rates We operate in, and sell products to, a range of countries Addressing longer-term risk of exposure with different currencies, resulting in exchange rate to exchange rate uctuations by sourcing exposure.
goods and services in currencies which match the revenue exposure where Transaction risk arises where revenues are denominated cost-effective.
in currencies different from those of the costs of Hedging short-term transaction risk.
Managing translation risk where possible Translation risk arises on the translation of net assets by the partial currency matching of and income statements of overseas subsidiaries.
borrowings with the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
- Financing Meggitts long-term nancing is provided by shareholders Negotiating debt facility extensions.
in the form of equity and by banks and other institutions in The group believes it has credit facilities the form of debt.
suf cient for our ongoing operations until at least March 2012.
Debt facilities are provided for nite periods of time and Basing covenant calculations on frozen need to be renewed periodically, unless repaid from UK GAAP to reduce volatility arising from generated cash.
Such renewal could be affected by any certain fair value measurements and future structural issues in the credit markets.
Debt facilities contain covenants which, if breached, could Including covenant clauses that enable result in the facilities being withdrawn.
net debt and EBITDA to be retranslated to sterling at similar exchange rates to reduce exchange movement volatility.
Monitoring actual and forecast results against covenant ratios regularly.
- Interest rates Fluctuations in rates affect the interest the group pays on Using the underlying character of debt its external borrowings.
instruments and interest rate derivatives such as interest rate swaps.
28 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
indd 28 28 09 03 2010 09 03 2010 14:16 14:16 Risk description Potential impact Mitigation action Finance continued - Retirement bene ts The funding position of the groups post-retirement bene t Closing the fide ned bene t schemes in funding schemes may be affected adversely by poor investment the UK and US to new members, with the performance, changes in interest and in ation rates, exception of one scheme inherited with the greater than anticipated improvements in life expectancy K&F acquisition.
and changes in the regulatory environment.
The income Agreeing fide cit recovery plans with the statement and the level of cash contributions that must trustees based on actuarial advice and be made to the schemes may be positively or negatively scheme valuation results.
affected by the amounts we are required to record for our Changing future service bene ts to retirement bene t obligations.
See note 34 to the Financial contain cost.
Statements and page 15 of the Performance Review.
Corporate - Environmental Meggitts operations and facilities are subject to laws Designing processes that minimise the and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants effect of the groups operations on the and hazardous substances into air and water, the environment.
handling, storage and disposal of such materials, and Commissioning independent third-party other environmental matters.
Failing to comply with audits of our sites.
our obligations potentially exposes the group to serious Carrying out extensive environmental due consequences, including fines, other sanctions and diligence on potential acquisitions and operational limitations.
purchasing environmental insurance for all new sites.
We are involved in the investigation and remediation of Providing for the expected costs arising from current and former sites for which we have been identi ed these sites based on available information as a potentially responsible party under US law.
and establishing a receivable to the extent these costs are recoverable under the groups environmental insurance policies.
- Legal and regulatory We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of Maintaining a legal and compliance business and provide for such costs.
However, there is a risk function to oversee the management of that successful claims or costs could exceed the provisions these risks.
For example, a number of asbestos-related claims Providing for claims which cannot be have been made against subsidiary companies.
To date, recovered from insurers.
the amount connected with such claims in any year has not been material and many claims are covered fully or partly by Introducing a health and safety programme existing insurance and indemnities.
across all of our businesses.
The group is subject to the laws and regulations of the Investing signi cant resources in countries in which it operates, including health and implementing best practice trade safety, environmental, trade compliance and government compliance and ethics programmes which contracting regulations.
In the US, there is a system of are reviewed quarterly by the Boards voluntary disclosure to the relevant authorities to deal with Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee.
any breach of export laws.
Any reported or unreported breach may be investigated and, depending upon its seriousness, result in criminal, civil or administrative penalties, including suspension or debarment.
The US authorities are investigating alleged violations of US export control laws by four US Meggitt subsidiaries and a UK business.
These investigations are likely to lead to financial penalties for which provision has been made and the imposition of corrective measures.
Suspension or debarment and denial of export privileges are also possible.
The aerospace industry is highly regulated so the group would be adversely affected if a material certi cation, authorisation or approval were revoked or suspended.
- People Meggitts success depends upon certain senior and Maintaining development and succession specialist employees.
Failure to retain them or recruit programmes, competitive remuneration replacements would have an adverse effect.
packages and good communications at all levels.
The group would be affected by work stoppages or slowdowns at its facilities and those of key customers or suppliers.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 29 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
