cash surpluses are invested in short-term deposits, with any stage in the process, the group receives no remuneration.
any working capital requirements being provided from As a consequence, the groups visibility of gross profits is group cash resources, group facilities, or by local overdraft generally quite short and reduces further during periods of facilities.
The group has a multi-currency notional cash pool economic downturn as is currently being experienced.
between the Euro zone subsidiaries and the UK-based Competition group Treasury subsidiary.
The structure facilitates interest and balance compensation of cash and bank overdrafts.
The degree of competition varies in each of the groups It is the intention to extend the scope of the participation to main regions.
In the UK, Australia and north America, the other group companies.
recruitment market is well developed, highly competitive and fragmented.
The characteristics of a developed market The main functional currencies of the group are Sterling, are greater competition for clients and candidates, as well Euro and Australian Dollar.
The group does not have material as pricing pressure.
In EMEA, latin America and Asia, transactional currency exposures, nor is there a material the recruitment market is generally less developed, with a large exposure to foreign denominated monetary assets and proportion of all recruitment being carried out by companies liabilities.
The group is exposed to foreign currency translation internal resources, rather than through recruitment specialists.
differences in accounting for its overseas operations.
Our policy This is changing due to changes in legislation, increasing job is not to hedge this exposure.
mobility and the difficulty internal resources face in sourcing In certain cases, where the group gives or receives short suitably qualified candidates and managing compliance.
term loans to and from other group companies with different If the group does not continue to compete in its markets reporting currencies, it may use foreign exchange swap effectively, by hiring new staff, opening and expanding derivative financial instruments to manage the currency and offices and continuing the discipline roll-outs, there is a risk interest rate exposure that arises on these loans.
It is the that competitors may beat us to key strategic opportunities, groups policy not to seek to designate these derivatives which may result in lost business and a reduction in market as hedges.
This risk is mitigated by meetings of the Board, PrinCiPal risks and unCertainties Executive Board and regional and country Management Boards where group strategy is continually reviewed and The management of the business and the execution of decisions made over the allocation of the groups resources, the groups strategy are subject to a number of risks.
The following section comprises a summary of the main risks Michael Page International plc believes could potentially technology impact the groups operating and financial performance.
The group is reliant on a number of technology systems to People provide services to clients and candidates.
These systems are dependent on a number of important suppliers that provide The resignation of key individuals and the inability to recruit the technology infrastructure and disaster recovery solutions.
talented people with the right skill-sets could adversely The performance of these suppliers are continually monitored affect the groups results.
This is further compounded by to ensure business critical services are available and maintained the groups organic growth strategy and its policy of not as far as practically possible.
Due to the rapid advancement externally hiring senior operational positions.
Mitigation of of technology, there is a risk that systems could become this risk is achieved by succession planning, training of staff, outdated with the potential to affect efficiency and have an competitive pay structures and share plans linked to the impact on revenue and client service.
This risk is mitigated by groups results and career progression.
regular reviews of the groups technology strategy to ensure macro economic environment that it supports the overall group strategy.
recruitment activity is largely driven by economic cycles legal and the levels of business confidence.
The Board look to The group operates in a large number of jurisdictions that reduce the groups cyclical risk by expanding geographically, have varying legal and compliance regulations.
The group by increasing the number of disciplines, by building part takes its responsibilities seriously and ensures that its policies, qualified and clerical businesses and by continuing to build systems and procedures are continually updated to reflect the temporary business.
best practice and to comply with the legal requirements in A substantial portion of the groups gross profit arises from all the markets in which it operates.
In order to reduce the fees that are contingent upon the successful placement of a legal and compliance risks, fee earners and support staff candidate in a position.
If a client cancels the assignment at 20 MIchAEl PAgE InTErnATIOnAl
