Spain Italy France 200% growth in licence revenues 36% growth in total revenues, nearly 32% growth in total revenues vs FY2008 350% increase in last four years vs FY2008 Group risk factors The Group has a successful track record to-date in integrating The Group, in common with all businesses could be affected by risks acquisitions into the Groups business model and has strengthened not completely within its control which could have a material effect its management team to assist in this process.
It has also secured on its shortand longer-term financial performance.
These risks a three-year revolving $215 million loan facility agreement to fund could cause actual results to differ materially from forecasts or announced acquisitions and associated integration costs.
Bank loan facility The following are the key risks that are relevant to the Group as a The $215 million loan facility agreement, to the extent drawn down provider of enterprise application management solutions.
Please by the Group may limit the operational and financial exibility of the also refer to the section on internal controls within the corporate Group and may increase the exposure of the Group to interest rate governance report on page 40. uctuations.
The loan facility agreement contains covenants which may negatively impact the ability of the Group to operate and grow Employees its business.
To the extent drawn down, the loan facility agreement The retention and recruitment of highly skilled and motivated will create an amount of indebtedness for the Group together with employees is critical to the success and future growth of the Group debt service obligations which may impair the operational and in all countries in which it currently operates and in which it is likely financial exibility of the Group.
to expand into in the future.
The directors believe that the strength of the business means that The Group has policies in place to help achieve these objectives any funds drawn down to fund acquisitions will be repaid together and ensure that it is able to attract and retain employees with the with any accrued interest within the three-year term of the loan required skills.
facility agreement minimising the effect of any restrictive covenants contained therein.
Timing of concluding contracts In common with other software companies, the recognition of Research and development revenue is dependent upon obtaining signed contracts from The Group has expanded its various R&D facilities through organic customers and delivery of product.
With a high proportion of costs growth and through acquisitions.
The success of the R&D function being xed, mainly people related, failure to conclude sales contracts in enhancing existing products and developing new products, which could result in a material decrease in margin.
Failure to conclude at are relevant to customer requirements is critical to the ongoing any time would have the same impact.
If new products or enhancements do not meet customer requirements, or competitors introduce products which However, the Group has a growing diverse mix of customers with a better meet the requirements of customers, this may have a material high proportion of predictable and recurring revenue which reduces impact on revenues and pro ts.
The successful integration of the R&D functions of acquired Acquisitions companies together with the effective management of existing Acquisitions could provide pro table revenue growth.
Concluding facilities is key to mitigating these risks.
further acquisitions is dependent on a number of factors such as the global economic position, the availability of finance and suitable target companies.
There are also risks associated with successfully integrating future acquisitions: for example the loss of key personnel, system integration issues and other problems not identi ed prior to acquisition.
Micro Focus Annual Report and 17 International plc Accounts 2009
