37 Business Review Risk Factors Management of Risk The Hotel Industry Supply and Demand Cycle The Groups risk management activity is directed by the Executive The hotel industry operates in an inherently cyclical market place.
A Management Committee, led by the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Risk weakening of demand, or an increase in market room-supply, may lead to identification workshops are facilitated by the Head of Risk and Internal downward pressure on room rates which in turn would lead to a negative Audit to identify the risks faced by the business.
Risk registers are effect on operating performance.
The Group has management systems compiled, and periodically updated, which map the nature of the risks in place designed to create flexibility in the operating cost base so as to relative to their likelihood of occurrence, severity and associated trends.
optimise operating profits in volatile trading conditions.
Individual management committee members are assigned responsibility The Ability to Borrow and Satisfy Debt Covenants for devising risk treatment plans to eliminate, minimise or transfer risks.
The Group utilises a variety of financial instruments to fund its operational The Group Chief Executive Officer and Executive Management Committee cash requirements and to maintain balance sheet efficiency.
The availability undertake regular reviews of the risk register and progress with risk of funds is determined by conditions prevalent in the capital markets and management plans.
its assessment of the Group.
If the Group does not meet the financial performance expected by the market or fails to meet specific covenants in facility agreements, it may have existing facilities withdrawn, may not be Overall responsibility for the risk management process adopted by the able to secure future funding or it may not secure future funding on terms it Group lies with the Board.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee finds favourable.
The Group maintains relationships with a number of banks reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management processes and and other financial institutions designed to create a wide pool of potential other internal controls.
The Head of Risk and Internal Audit provides the funders.
Notwithstanding the strength of the Groups relationships with Audit Committee with a quarterly update of risk management activity.
its banking partners, the availability of future funding may be influenced by factors beyond the Groups control such as unforeseen economic events Risk Factors having an impact on credit market liquidity.
In this section we describe some of the risks that could have a material effect on the Groups business activities.
Not all potential risks are listed.
Some risks are excluded because the Board considers them not material Litigation to the Group as a whole.
Additionally, there may be risks that are not The Group may be at risk of litigation from various parties with which it reasonably foreseeable at the date of this report for the Group to assess interacts, either through direct contractual arrangements, the provision of fully their potential impact on the business.
The order in which risks are services or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, such as health presented below is not indicative of the relative impact on the Group.
The Group has processes in place to manage the potential effect of these risks may be material to the Groups business by risks associated with its various contractual relationships and appropriate having an impact on revenues, profits, net assets and financial resources.
compliance programmes necessary to provide assurance in respect of Such risks also have the potential to impact on the Groups reputation.
is often difficult to assess with accuracy the likely impact of an event on the Groups reputation, as any damage may often be disproportionate to Intellectual Property Rights and Brands the events actual financial impact.
Future development will, in part, be dependent on the recognition of the Groups brands and perception of the values inherent in those brands.
Substantial investment continues to be made in protecting the Groups Political and Economic Developments brands from misuse and infringement, by way of trade mark registration Major events affecting either economic or political stability on a global and and domain name protection.
Consistent delivery of product quality regional level represent an exposure to the Group.
Economic events could is vitally important to influencing consumer preference and creating include recessionary pressures which would have an impact on the Groups and maintaining value perception.
Historically the Group has mainly revenues, operating costs and profitability.
Political risk could include operated properties which it owns.
The trend towards managing thirdchanges in the regulatory environment in which the Groups business party properties, primarily in the Middle East region, increases the risk that activities operate, including restrictions on the repatriation of funds or product quality may not be delivered in accordance with brand standards.
control over the ownership of assets.
Many of these risks are beyond This may increase the Groups exposure to litigation, increase risks to the control of the Group and the time-frames for developing appropriate the reputation of the Groups brands, reduce revenues and become an risk management approaches can often be very short.
Management is inhibiting factor on ongoing development.
Management seeks to ensure continually vigilant to political and economic developments and seeks to maintenance of standards by developing strong working relationships with identify emerging risks at the earliest opportunity and implement steps to hotel owners and undertaking regular monitoring of service delivery.
minimise exposure to the greatest extent possible.
Events That Adversely Impact Domestic or International Travel Management Agreements Sustained levels of occupancy and room rates can be adversely affected An element of the Groups strategy is to selectively increase the number of by events that reduce domestic or international travel.
Such events may management contracts to operate hotels owned by third-parties, primarily include acts of terrorism, war or perceived increased risk of armed conflict, focussing on the Middle East region.
In this regard, the Group faces epidemics, natural disasters, increased cost of travel and industrial action.
competition from established global and regional brands.
Successful These events may be localised to a particular country, region or could execution of this strategy will depend on the Groups ability to identify have a wider international perspective.
Reduced demand will impact on suitable management opportunities, secure contracts on suitable revenues and operational profitability.
The Group has in place contingency contractual terms and ensure that contractual commitments are met and and recovery plans to enable it to respond to major incidents or crises.
The Group has a management team in the Middle East region with the necessary skills and resources to pursue this element of the Groups strategy.
38 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 39 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business Review Risk Factors Key Personnel Insurance Execution of the Groups strategy depends on its ability to attract, develop The Group maintains insurance cover appropriate to its risk profile after and retain employees with the appropriate skills, experience and aptitude.
taking into account the level of retained risk the Board considers to be Development and maintenance of a Group culture, recognition systems, appropriate, relative to the cost of cover available in the market place.
Not compensation and benefits arrangements, training and development all play all risks are insured, either because the cover is not available in the market leading roles in minimising this risk.
The Group has appropriate systems or that cover is not available on commercially viable terms.
The Group is for recruitment, reward and compensation, performance management and exposed to the risk of cover not being continually available.
be influenced by factors outside the Groups control, which could reduce the markets underwriting capacity, breadth of policy coverage or simply Information Technology Systems and Infrastructure make the cost of cover too expensive.
Insurance covers are arranged with a The Group invests in systems that are tried and tested so that as much variety of insurers to ensure that arrangements are not overly concentrated operational resilience as possible, cost considerations permitting, can be on a limited number of carriers.
Choice of insurance carriers is dependent obtained.
Investment is made in robust infrastructure technology to provide on satisfaction of a number of relevant factors including a review of the a reliable operating platform.
In order to maintain its competitiveness insurers security ratings.
The Group could be exposed to uninsured thirdwithin the market place the Group needs to ensure its IT support systems party claims, loss of revenue or reduction of fixed asset values which may, deliver the necessary trading platforms and provide management with in turn, have an adverse effect on Group profitability, cash flows and ability accurate and timely information.
Planned investment in new systems is to satisfy banking covenants.
undertaken following periodic needs analysis which consider matters such as system obsolescence, business efficiency and system security.
Tax and Treasury Risk Crisis management and disaster recovery plans are in place for business The Groups businesses operate in numerous tax jurisdictions.
in tax laws in any of those jurisdictions may have adverse consequences to the Groups profits.
Similarly the Groups interpretation and application of various tax laws may be challenged, with the possible result that the Property Ownership Group is required to pay unforeseen tax liabilities.
The Group trades The Groups strategy is to be both owner and manager of hotel properties.
in numerous international currencies but reports its financial results in Growth of the Groups portfolio of owned assets is dependent on the sterling.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may either be accretive availability of suitable development sites, acquisitions and access to or dilutive to the Groups reported trading results and the Groups net funding.
A limit on such opportunities may have a negative impact on asset value.
Interest rate derivatives are used to manage interest rate risk, future operational profitability.
Property ownership requires ongoing to the extent that the perceived cost is considered to outweigh the benefit investment in the form of preventative maintenance, refurbishment, from the flexibility of variable rate borrowings.
The Group actively monitors existing and new capital expenditure and product development.
There is the need and timing of such derivatives.
Unhedged interest rate exposures also the possible loss of capital due to uninsured events and reductions pose a risk to the Group when interest rates rise, resulting in increased in asset values as a result of demographic changes in the markets in costs of funding and an impact on overall financial performance.
The which the properties are located.
The Group is formalising its asset Group extends lines of credit to its customers and has liquid short-term management capability in order to develop property specific asset investments with various counterparties.
Credit control processes exist to management plans.
set appropriate credit limits for customers, assess their credit worthiness and monitor payments against agreed terms.
Investments in short-term instruments are with such counterparties approved by the Board taking into account the counterpartys credit rating and a maximum limit as to the amount that may be deposited.
