37 Business Review Risk Factors Management of Risk The Hotel Industry Supply and Demand Cycle The Groups risk management activity is directed by the Executive The hotel industry operates in an inherently cyclical market place.
A Management Committee, led by the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Risk weakening of demand, or an increase in market room-supply, may lead to identification workshops are facilitated by the Head of Risk and Internal downward pressure on room rates which in turn would lead to a negative Audit to identify the risks faced by the business.
Risk registers are effect on operating performance.
The Group has management systems compiled, and periodically updated, which map the nature of the risks in place designed to create flexibility in the operating cost base so as to relative to their likelihood of occurrence, severity and associated trends.
optimise operating profits in volatile trading conditions.
Individual management committee members are assigned responsibility The Ability to Borrow and Satisfy Debt Covenants for devising risk treatment plans to eliminate, minimise or transfer risks.
The Group utilises a variety of financial instruments to fund its operational The Group Chief Executive Officer and Executive Management Committee cash requirements and to maintain balance sheet efficiency.
The availability undertake regular reviews of the risk register and progress with risk of funds is determined by conditions prevalent in the capital markets and management plans.
its assessment of the Group.
If the Group does not meet the financial performance expected by the market or fails to meet specific covenants in facility agreements, it may have existing facilities withdrawn, may not be Overall responsibility for the risk management process adopted by the able to secure future funding or it may not secure future funding on terms it Group lies with the Board.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee finds favourable.
The Group maintains relationships with a number of banks reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management processes and and other financial institutions designed to create a wide pool of potential other internal controls.
The Head of Risk and Internal Audit provides the funders.
Notwithstanding the strength of the Groups relationships with Audit Committee with a quarterly update of risk management activity.
its banking partners, the availability of future funding may be influenced by factors beyond the Groups control such as unforeseen economic events Risk Factors having an impact on credit market liquidity.
In this section we describe some of the risks that could have a material effect on the Groups business activities.
Not all potential risks are listed.
Some risks are excluded because the Board considers them not material Litigation to the Group as a whole.
Additionally, there may be risks that are not The Group may be at risk of litigation from various parties with which it reasonably foreseeable at the date of this report for the Group to assess interacts, either through direct contractual arrangements, the provision of fully their potential impact on the business.
The order in which risks are services or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, such as health presented below is not indicative of the relative impact on the Group.
The Group has processes in place to manage the potential effect of these risks may be material to the Groups business by risks associated with its various contractual relationships and appropriate having an impact on revenues, profits, net assets and financial resources.
compliance programmes necessary to provide assurance in respect of Such risks also have the potential to impact on the Groups reputation.
is often difficult to assess with accuracy the likely impact of an event on the Groups reputation, as any damage may often be disproportionate to Intellectual Property Rights and Brands the events actual financial impact.
Future development will, in part, be dependent on the recognition of the Groups brands and perception of the values inherent in those brands.
Substantial investment continues to be made in protecting the Groups Political and Economic Developments brands from misuse and infringement, by way of trade mark registration Major events affecting either economic or political stability on a global and and domain name protection.
Consistent delivery of product quality regional level represent an exposure to the Group.
Economic events could is vitally important to influencing consumer preference and creating include recessionary pressures which would have an impact on the Groups and maintaining value perception.
Historically the Group has mainly revenues, operating costs and profitability.
Political risk could include operated properties which it owns.
The trend towards managing thirdchanges in the regulatory environment in which the Groups business party properties, primarily in the Middle East region, increases the risk that activities operate, including restrictions on the repatriation of funds or product quality may not be delivered in accordance with brand standards.
control over the ownership of assets.
Many of these risks are beyond This may increase the Groups exposure to litigation, increase risks to the control of the Group and the time-frames for developing appropriate the reputation of the Groups brands, reduce revenues and become an risk management approaches can often be very short.
Management is inhibiting factor on ongoing development.
Management seeks to ensure continually vigilant to political and economic developments and seeks to maintenance of standards by developing strong working relationships with identify emerging risks at the earliest opportunity and implement steps to hotel owners and undertaking regular monitoring of service delivery.
minimise exposure to the greatest extent possible.
Events That Adversely Impact Domestic or International Travel Management Agreements Sustained levels of occupancy and room rates can be adversely affected An element of the Groups strategy is to selectively increase the number of by events that reduce domestic or international travel.
Such events may management contracts to operate hotels owned by third-parties, primarily include acts of terrorism, war or perceived increased risk of armed conflict, focussing on the Middle East region.
In this regard, the Group faces epidemics, natural disasters, increased cost of travel and industrial action.
competition from established global and regional brands.
Successful These events may be localised to a particular country, region or could execution of this strategy will depend on the Groups ability to identify have a wider international perspective.
Reduced demand will impact on suitable management opportunities, secure contracts on suitable revenues and operational profitability.
The Group has in place contingency contractual terms and ensure that contractual commitments are met and and recovery plans to enable it to respond to major incidents or crises.
The Group has a management team in the Middle East region with the necessary skills and resources to pursue this element of the Groups strategy.
