Risks and uncertainties Its primary responsibilities are to: Actively managing potential risks review the operation of the risk management process: Risk Management Process consider the Companys major and other Overall Board responsibility supported by Risk and Assurance Functions significant risks and the adequacy of the mitigation actions: review and comment on the updates on Regular risk workshops by business function risks prepared by Group Assurance prior to submission to the Executive and Audit Committees: and review and comment on the Group Assurance audit plan prior to submission Risks identified, assessed and prioritised for approval to the Audit Committee.
Risks mapped to controls Residual risks prioritised Confirmed with Executive currently in place for mitigation and Board The Board also receives regular updates on significant legislative changes or developments in corporate governance best practice.
The Companys social, environmental and ethical disclosures are reviewed for accuracy through a combination of detailed verification by Existing controls Controls identified members of management responsible enforced and tested Suggested action plans agreed to for the individual areas of corporate bridge gaps Remedial action plans implemented social responsibility and high level Options for controls identified and costed Executive held accountable review by the members of the Board and Executive Committee.
Plans approved by Executive and Board Market-driven risks Consumer expenditure In order to operate successfully, risk is considered This section highlights some of the risks Changes in the general economic climate, in everything we do.
Over the last year we have which affect the Company.
It is not intended such as those caused by the global credit strengthened the Board and its committees to to be an exhaustive and extensive analysis crunch and the resultant recession, can improve the manner in which we understand, of all risks which may affect the Company, have a detrimental effect on consumer evaluate and mitigate these risks.
but those which have been identified and expenditure and therefore Company could have a material impact on Mitchells revenues.
More localised economic & Butlers long-term performance and factors can also have an impact, such as achievement of its strategy.
These risks reduced tourist visits to London following have been grouped under the following terrorist activity.
headings: market: operational: regulatory and financial.
Mitchells & Butlers adopts Mitchells & Butlers has around 2,000 pubs a pro-active approach in this area with across the UK with a wide spectrum of each member of the Executive Committee customer offers targeted at different managing the specific risks associated consumer groups and leisure occasions.
with their areas of responsibility together This range provides flexibility to respond with a dedicated Assurance team who to changes in consumer expenditure report through the General Counsel to either by altering the products sold the Executive Committee and the Board.
and prices charged, or by substituting The process adopted to ensure that a more appropriate style of pub at a we understand, evaluate and mitigate particular location.
the potential risks facing the business is shown above.
Consumer taste Changes in consumer taste or a new or The Board has overall responsibility improved competitor offering may reduce for managing the Companys risk.
the appeal of Mitchells & Butlers pubs to its A sub-committee of the Executive customers, especially if the Company fails to the Risk Committee assists the Board anticipate, identify and respond adequately and the Executive Committee in the and promptly to these changes.
review of risk management processes and in the consideration of major risks.
24 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary For example, on a long-term perspective, Supplier dynamics 1 social and demographic changes have Food and drink purchases account for the driven the growth in pub food while at the majority of Mitchells & Butlers supply costs.
same time leading to a steady decline in the Mitchells & Butlers is exposed to the risk on-trade beer market.
This decline has been of higher food prices dependent on world further impacted by the introduction of the economic conditions, global availability, smoking ban in England on 1 July 2007 and foreign exchange fluctuations and demand the loss-leading pricing policies of the large for products.
In FY 2008 and FY 2009 supermarket groups, with the off-trade there has been an incremental food cost of in total now accounting for almost 50% 9m and 8m respectively.
There are some of all UK beer sales up from 18% 20 years signs that the level of future price increases ago.
Competition in the eating-out market will be at a lower rate however it is likely has increased as pubs have responded to that they will still be subject to volatility.
the decline in drinks sales by introducing food or improving their existing menus.
Despite this, as a result of the value In light of this threat, Mitchells & Butlers and volume strategy that the Company has responded by improving the quality, pursues and the strength of its consumer value and range of its menu items and offers and pub estate, Mitchells & Butlers drinks offers in order to gain market share.
has continued to grow food volumes mitigating the increases in food cost of On a regular basis, there are marketing goods.
Purchasing effectiveness is a key 2 strategy meetings which analyse a variety area of focus as the large number of food 1.
Stafferton Lodge of data to ensure that Mitchells & Butlers ingredients and fragmented nature of food Toby Carvery, Maidenhead pubs are maintaining their relevance to suppliers on the world commodity markets their customers.
This analysis is part of a have given Mitchells & Butlers a greater 2.
The Dukes Head structured programme to develop new styles opportunity to source food from alternative Premium Country Dining Group, Crawley of pubs and continuously improve existing suppliers.
In addition to this, the Company brands.
This process is co-ordinated with a continually reviews its cost of goods for property review to ensure the appropriate each menu item in order to maximise value capital investment is taking place to support to the customer as well as profits, and this the marketing strategy.
The evolution of menu management process also assists in Harvester, which has returned to sales mitigating food cost increases.
growth following menu and pricing changes, and the development of Miller & Carter, In drinks Mitchells & Butlers has a steakhouse offer, which has grown to successfully renegotiated supplier 16 pubs over the last two years are relevant contracts partially offsetting the effect recent examples of this process in action.
Additionally, as the Companys legacy tied drinks arrangements Operational risks have ended, Mitchells & Butlers has Pricing Risks broadened the choice available to The pricing of products is a critical customers on favourable terms.
Mitchells management tool in maximising cash & Butlers is no longer contractually bound gross margin and therefore growing to source minimum purchase volumes the net operating profits of the business.
from certain suppliers although there There is a risk that if the Company fails are some distribution obligations in place.
to price the products that it sells at the right level, volume declines will occur Mitchells & Butlers is a large commercial if the price is too high or insufficient user of gas and electricity and is subject to margin will be achieved if the price is too fluctuations in utility costs for example, low, thereby impacting on the profitability gas and electricity costs rose sharply during of the Company.
As a result, retail pricing 2008 due to global price increases.
To decisions are constantly monitored by reduce exposure to short-term fluctuations a central pricing team which reviews and in energy prices, Mitchells & Butlers has a assesses the impact of pricing changes rolling programme of forward purchases.
on profitability to ensure that any changes An energy awareness team reviews energy are effective.
consumption and works with the business to find ways to promote further efficiencies.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 25 Risks and uncertainties continued The Company also regularly reviews the Some examples of the regulatory changes 1 financial position of its major suppliers to which have affected Mitchells & Butlers assess the risk of suppliers ceasing to be include: able to trade.
National Minimum Wage and Holiday Pay Service standards The National Minimum Wage was introduced Service standards are a critical component 10 years ago and has increased by a of Mitchells & Butlers pubs success with compound annual growth rate of 5.5% per levels of service and retailing standards a annum over its first eight years, materially key element in the consumers choice of above inflation.
Mitchells & Butlers operates ongoing Pay Commission indicated that any further staff training focusing on service quality and increase should remain in line with general supports this through a variety of methods wage inflation: consequently in October including guest satisfaction surveys.
Health and safety In October 2007 new rules increased the Mitchells & Butlers is the largest on-trade statutory holiday entitlement of staff from caterer and there is therefore the potential 20 to 24 days, which increased the Companys that there might be a major health and employment costs.
safety failure leading to illness, injury or loss of life or significant damage to the Mitchells & Butlers has in the past 2 Companys reputation.
In light of this, the successfully mitigated these statutory 1.
Neptune Company has in place rigorous health and increases in employment costs through Harvester, Boscombe safety training programmes and regular productivity improvements.
The Masons Arms independent audits which are carried out measures have allowed the Company Crown Carveries, Bristol to ensure that procedures are followed.
to maintain the ratio of employment costs at 24.3% of sales in FY 2009.
People Critical to Mitchells & Butlers success is Licensing its ability to attract, retain, develop and New licensing laws became effective in motivate the best people with the right England and Wales in November 2005 capabilities throughout the organisation.
with similar changes being introduced in Remuneration packages are benchmarked Scotland in September 2009.
Licensing to ensure that they remain competitive and matters were transferred to local authorities a talent review process has been established and greater flexibility of opening hours to provide structured succession planning.
was introduced to allow pub operators to apply to the local authority for permission The Company makes significant investment to change opening hours, subject to in training to ensure that its people have the objections from local residents, the police right skills to perform their jobs successfully.
These groups Furthermore an employee attitude survey is have the right to ask the local authority for conducted annually to establish employee the premises licence to be reviewed if they satisfaction and engagement and to believe that the Governments licensing compare it against other companies as objectives are being compromised.
The well as previous annual surveys.
local authority now has the power to attach further conditions to the licence, reduce IT systems trading hours, call for a change in the pub Mitchells & Butlers is reliant on its IT management or ultimately suspend or systems to trade efficiently and to ensure revoke the licence.
that appropriate controls are in place.
There is a potential for a failure of key IT systems The Policing and Crime bill is currently in for a sustained period which may restrict committee stage in the Lords.
The bill takes sales or reduce operational effectiveness.
a two-tiered approach to further regulation Therefore the Company has in place a of alcohol retailers with a small number number of tested contingency plans and of mandatory conditions for all alcohol disaster recovery processes which mitigate retailers, alongside new discretionary the impact of such failures.
Regulatory risks Mitchells & Butlers does not operate any Mitchells & Butlers operates in a heavily 24 hour licences and invests heavily in the regulated sector, where changes in training of its pub managers and staff to regulation can have a significant impact.
ensure continued compliance with licensing 26 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary laws and that its pubs are operated in securitisation, with their longevity and Mitchells & Butlers also maintains a close a responsible manner.
amounts matched to the underlying bonds.
dialogue with the pension schemes It also has 150m of short-term interest Trustees and three of the Trustees are Taxation rates swaps held outside the securitisation appointed by the Company.
As a result Mitchells & Butlers profitability is affected by against floating rate debt with a maturity of the funding deficits in the schemes, a number of different taxes.
These include date of December 2010.
There are no in addition to the regular service duty on alcoholic beverages, property rates, swaps remaining on the Groups balance contributions, the Company has made VAT, corporation tax and other business sheet relating to the proposed property additional contributions of over 200m taxes.
There is a risk that tax legislation joint venture.
since demerger in 2003 in order to changes may result in increased levels of tax proactively reduce the deficit.
and therefore reduced revenue, profitability Cash flows or cash flow.
Mitchells & Butlers has financing in place The pension deficit on the balance sheet with sufficient headroom to support the had increased to 130m at the year end Mitchells & Butlers ensures it takes operational strategy and maintain an primarily due to a reduction in corporate appropriate action to minimise the risks efficient balance sheet.
There is a risk bond yields.
The next pension scheme from legislation changes through a number however that due to a change in the triennial valuation for funding purposes of means including: economic climate or other significant is due in March 2010.
Discussions have active participation with industry financial impact either that the business commenced with the Pension Trustees in organisations, such as the British Beer might not be able to fulfil the terms respect of the various assumptions to be & Pub Association and the British of its financial obligations, or that the used in the valuation, some of which could Hospitality Association, ensuring that business would not be able to refinance its vary significantly from the accounting effective lobbying is carried out: and unsecured medium-term facility, drawings basis, and we therefore anticipate that continual improvements in operating on which were 383m at the year end, prior the valuation deficit may be higher than procedures to ensure any cost increases to its maturity in November 2011.
A revised funding plan will be arising from such changes can be agreed with the Trustees once the valuation mitigated through productivity increases In either of these circumstances the process is complete.
Company could reduce its cash costs, primarily by reducing operating costs or Property valuation and security The amount and timing of the Groups cash reducing its maintenance and expansionary There is a risk that a significant reduction tax payments and receipts are dependent capital expenditure.
Alternatively the in the Companys profitability or a upon the interpretation of tax legislation.
business could look to other forms of material change to the basis of valuation Alternative interpretations could affect tax finance such as sale and leaseback, of our property portfolio, upon which returns which are submitted but not yet rights issues, or other specific mortgage the Groups borrowing is secured, may approved, material tax losses utilised in transactions to meet cash requirements.
adversely impact the Groups borrowing prior years or available for offset against Clearly there is no guarantee that these covenants or distributable reserves.
This future profits and claims for overpayments other forms of finance will be available to is mitigated by the headroom that we of tax in prior periods.
the business at the required time.
maintain against these risks, for example on the covenants within the securitisation Should the Company be subject to a change Pension funding there is a net worth threshold of 500m: of ownership as defined by the Income and Mitchells & Butlers has two defined and at the year end the headroom on this Corporation Taxes Act 1988 Sections 768, benefit pension schemes which give rise covenant was 1,092m.
769 and Schedule 28A and be deemed to various funding risks.
There is a risk that to have undergone a significant change the Companys funding of these schemes Material litigation to its business, tax losses available for may be increased or accelerated to meet Mitchells & Butlers may be subject to offset against future profits could be lost the expected liabilities within the scheme.
litigation in the ordinary course of its or the timing of cash tax credits could be The expected liabilities of the schemes are operations.
If such litigation resulted in impacted.
impacted by changes in various economic fines, damages or reputational damage to factors such as life expectancy, asset returns, Mitchells & Butlers, its business could be In mitigation of the above risks, Mitchells bond yields and inflation expectations.
& Butlers monitors its tax position on an ongoing basis in conjunction with Mitchells & Butlers pension risks have been Mitchells & Butlers has audited procedures advice from tax specialists and discussions mitigated by the closure of the defined in place to safeguard against material with HMRC.
benefit schemes to new entrants in 2002, litigation, and has insurance in place to cover as well as the introduction, with effect the more easily identifiable litigation risks.
Financial risks from 1 October 2009, of a 2% per annum Hedges limit on increases to that proportion Other financial risks The Group uses interest rate and currency of salary which is used to calculate the Other financial risks are shown in note 20 swap contracts to hedge its exposure to retirement benefit for current active to the accounts.
changes in interest rates and exchange members.
As an alternative, a defined rates.
The Group currently has 1.35bn contribution pension scheme is now of interest rate swaps and cross-currency available to eligible new employees.
swaps in place in relation to the Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 27
