Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties The tables below summarise the material financial and operational risks to the Group and how the Group seeks to mitigate them in the day-to-day running of the business.
Financial risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Significant Financial institutions may reduce the The Group continues to focus on building strong worsening in credit quantum of lending and tighten their relationships with providers to ensure the Group is markets acceptance criteria for customers seeking able to provide solutions to the needs of providers to obtain credit.
This may reduce Group and to maximise the opportunities for providers to revenue.
Providers may increase their acquire customers in a cost effective manner.
focus on customer retention rather than acquisition.
This may reduce commissions available to price comparison websites.
Significant Consolidation of providers may continue The Group will continue to improve its search consolidation of in response to the poor credit markets.
functionality and deliver new relevant customers to providers This may reduce competition for business providers at demonstrably lower acquisition costs with customers having less choice and compared with other media.
The diversification of may reduce commissions available to price the Group both in the number of verticals that it comparison websites.
operates in and the range of products and services it provides in each vertical should lessen the impact of any consolidation of providers.
Reduction of Providers may decide to withdraw their The Group continues to focus on building strong providers products from price comparison websites or relationships with providers to ensure the Group is reduce their customer acquisition activity via able to provide solutions to the needs of providers price comparison websites.
This may reduce and to maximise the opportunities for providers to Group revenue and the customer proposition acquire customers in a cost effective manner.
Security of cash The Group holds significant cash balances.
The Group has continued to diversify its cash balances A failure of a major financial institution with holdings across a number of financial institutions in whom the Group places significant deposits accordance with its approved treasury policy.
At may result in a material loss to the Group.
the end of 2009, the Group held cash balances with five financial institutions with a maximum balance of 18.0m with any one institution.
Revenue assurance Significant reduction of or a failure to The Group will continue to perform independent recognise revenue from contracted providers reviews using third parties to gain assurance that where the Group is remunerated on a cost the Group is being correctly remunerated for the per action basis.
sales it introduces to contracted providers.
Investment in new Significant capital invested in new products Investments in new areas typically leverage existing areas and services or new geographies fails to expertise and experience built up over many make a return.
Capital requirements are relatively low and investment is managed in stages such that it is not finally committed until there is good visibility of a return.
Financial services The business model in financial services or The Group has a team of regulatory specialists who and other markets other lines of business may be compromised work with the business to ensure that it remains regulation and by changes to existing regulation or the compliant with existing regulation and informed of taxation introduction of new regulation, or changes impending regulation.
The Group has embraced to the tax legislation, particularly value added regulation to date and shares the vision of the tax.
regulators generally to make the market more transparent to the end customer.
The Group continues to monitor ongoing European Union developments in respect of the review of the provision of financial intermediary services with regard to value added tax and any relevant case law in this area as it emerges.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General Operational risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Competitive Loss of market share and erosion of margins The Group continues to focus on building market environment from increased competition.
leading products to improve its proposition to customers.
This includes investment in customer retention tools and technology including CRM initiatives which deliver additional features and functionality to customers.
Brand perception Reduction in customer loyalty with existing Continued investment in television advertising customers and an inability to attract new reinforced through press activity will maintain the customers if the business fails to maintain its Group in customers minds.
Rigorous checking of position as a leading price comparison the website through audit and review will maintain website or if its reputation is negatively the accuracy of the information displayed.
Rigorous impacted by any event.
use of internal controls and testing of the Groups systems will ensure the integrity and robustness of the Groups systems.
Additional investment in initiatives increases transparency to the customer helping to protect brand values.
Capacity and Failure to provide adequate service levels to The Group maintains two separate data centres functionality of IT customers or maintain revenue generating with n 1 redundancy in relation to its core and systems services.
infrastructure to ensure that service is maintained infrastructure in the event of a disaster at the primary data centre.
Developed software is rigorously tested and the Group operates a robust release process which mitigates the likelihood of software being released into a live environment without being fully tested.
Loss of key Loss of key management resulting in a lack of Existing key management and new hires are tied in management necessary expertise or continuity to execute through attractive equity incentive packages and strategy.
In addition, succession plans have been developed for key members of the management team which are regularly reviewed.
Reliance on search Reduction in gross margin through reduction The Group will continue to invest in sustainable engine paid search in revenue derived from search engine search engine optimisation activities which adhere and natural listings optimisation or failure to manage search to search engine guidelines.
The Group will engine marketing campaigns appropriately.
continue to use a software solution to assist in managing the profitability of search engine marketing campaigns.
Economic Reduction in visitors and revenue from a The Group continues to focus on building a wide environment recession as customers seek to reduce levels range of market leading products to meet of discretionary expenditure.
Customers seeking to reduce levels of discretionary expenditure will also be looking to obtain best value from compulsory products and services.
The diversification of the Group both in the number of verticals that it operates in and the range of products and services it provides in each vertical should lessen the impact of a recession upon the Group although it cannot entirely mitigate against it.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 23
