14 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Group faces a variety of risks which could negatively impact Further information about the Groups risk management its performance, earnings, financial position, reputation and systems are given in the Corporate Governance Report on pages future prospects.
Over the past year we have refined the process 56 and 57 and in the Sustainability Report on page 35.
Further of identifying, evaluating and monitoring strategic risks in order detailed disclosure in respect of financial risks relevant to the to focus on the most significant events that could impact the Group are set out in Note 25 c to the financial statements and Groups performance.
Set out below are the principal risks and on pages 46 and 47 of the Financial Review.
uncertainties identified and the steps the Group has taken to mitigate each of them.
There may be additional risks unknown to the Group and other risks, currently believed to be insignificant, could turn out to be significant.
These risks, whether they materialise individually or simultaneously, could significantly affect the Groups business and financial results.
Risk Mitigation Commodity prices The Group considers exposure to commodity price fluctuations within The sensitivity of Group earnings to The Groups results are heavily dependent on commodity prices reasonable boundaries to be an integral part of the Groups business, movements in commodity prices is set out principally copper and to a lesser extent molybdenum.
The prices of and its usual policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
in the Financial Review on page 47. these commodities are strongly influenced by world economic growth, The Group monitors the commodity markets closely to determine Details of hedging arrangements put in place and may fluctuate widely and have a corresponding impact on the the effect of price fluctuations on earnings and cash flows, and uses by the Group are included within the Financial Groups revenues.
derivative instruments to manage its exposure to commodity price Review on page 46 and in Note 25 e to the fluctuations where appropriate.
Strategic resources Contingency plans are in place to address potential short-term Information on the Groups arrangements Disruption to the supply of any of the Groups key strategic inputs such disruptions to strategic resources such as electricity.
The Group for the supply of key inputs are included as electricity, water, sulphuric acid and mining equipment could have a enters into medium and long-term supply contracts for a range within the Marketplace section on page 11, negative impact on production volumes.
Longer term restrictions could of key inputs to help ensure continuity of supply.
and details of significant operational or cost impact opportunities for the growth of the Group.
factors related to key inputs are included Technological solutions, such as increased use of sea water in the within the Business Review on pages A portion of the Groups input costs are influenced by external market Groups mining processes, can help address long-term limitations 17 to 31. factors and are not entirely within the control of the Group.
on scarce resources such as fresh water.
Political, legal and regulatory risks The Group assesses political risk as part of its evaluation of potential Details of any significant political, legal The Group may be affected by political instability and regulatory projects, including the nature of foreign investment agreements or regulatory developments impacting the developments in the countries in which it is operating, pursuing in place.
Political, legal and regulatory developments affecting the Groups operations are included within the development projects or conducting exploration activities.
groups operations and projects are monitored closely.
review of operations in the Business Review The withdrawal or variation of permits already granted and changes on pages 17 to 31. to regulations or taxation could adversely affect the Groups operations and development projects.
Community relations The Group is committed to managing the social impact of its activities Details of the Groups community relations by utilising several instruments to ensure clear communication with activities are included in the Corporate Failure to adequately manage relations with local communities local stakeholders, such as local perception surveys, local media and Sustainability report on page 38. could have a direct impact on the Groups reputation and ability community meetings.
to operate at existing operations and the progress and viability of development projects.
Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 15 Risk Mitigation Growth opportunities The Group has teams conducting active exploration programmes A review of the Groups exploration The Group needs to identify new mineral resources and development both within Chile and elsewhere.
The Group has also entered into activities, its exploration agreements and opportunities in order to ensure continued future growth.
The Group early-stage exploration agreements with third parties in a number other growth opportunities are set out in seeks to identify new mineral resources through exploration.
There of countries throughout the world.
the Business Review on pages 26 to 29. is a risk that exploration activities may not identify viable mineral The Group assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities, resources.
The Group may fail to identify attractive acquisition both from its internal portfolio and external opportunities, to maximise opportunities, or may select inappropriate targets.
The long-term the growth profile of the Group.
A rigorous assessment process is commodity price forecasts used when assessing potential projects followed to evaluate all potential business acquisitions.
and other investment opportunities are likely to have a significant influence on the forecast return on investment.
Ore reserves and mineral The Groups reserves and resources estimates are updated annually The ore reserves and mineral resources to reflect material extracted during the year, the results of drilling estimates, along with supporting explanations, resources estimates programmes and updated assumptions.
The Group follows the are set out on pages 108 to 113.
The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources estimates are subject JORC code in reporting its ore reserves and mineral resources to a number of assumptions and estimations, including geological, which requires that the reports are based on work undertaken metallurgical and technical factors, future commodity prices and by a Competent Person.
Fluctuations in these variables may result in lower grade reserves being deemed uneconomic, and could lead to a reduction in reserves.
Operational risks The key operational risks relating to each operation are identified as Details of the operational performance Mining operations are subject to a number of circumstances not part of the regular risk review process undertaken by the individual of each of the Groups operations is included wholly within the Groups control, including damage to or breakdown operations.
This process also identifies appropriate mitigations for within the Business Review on pages 17 to 31. of equipment or infrastructure, unexpected geological variations or each of these specific operational risks.
technical issues, extreme weather conditions and natural disasters, The Group has appropriate insurance to provide protection from which could adversely affect production volumes and costs.
some, but not all, of the costs that may arise from such events.
Development projects Prior to project approval a detailed feasibility process is followed to Details of the progress of the Groups A failure to effectively manage the Groups development projects assess the technical and commercial viability of the project.
Detailed development projects is included within the could result in delays in the commencement of production and cost progress reports on the ongoing development projects are regularly Business Review on pages 17 to 31. overruns.
Demand for supplies, equipment and skilled personnel reviewed, including assessments of the progress of the key project could affect capital and operating costs.
Increasing regulatory and milestones and actual performance against budget.
environmental approvals and litigation could result in delays in construction or increases in project costs.
Employees and contractors There are long-term labour contracts in place at each of the Details of the Groups relations with The Groups skilled workforce is essential both to maintain its current Groups mining operations which help to ensure labour stability.
its employees and contractors are set out operations and to successfully complete the Groups development The Group maintains appropriate and transparent dialogue with within the Corporate Sustainability report projects.
The loss of skilled workers and failure to recruit new staff its employees, and invests in employee training and development.
on pages 36 and 37 and within the review may lead to increased costs or delays.
Labour disputes may lead to of the operations in the Business Review Contractors employees are an important part of the Groups operational interruptions and higher costs and could have a negative on pages 17 to 31. workforce, and under Chilean law are subject to the same duties and impact on the Groups earnings.
responsibilities as the Groups own employees.
The Groups approach is to treat contractors as strategic associates.
Health, safety and the environment The Group attaches a very high priority to health, safety and Further information in respect of The Group operates in an industry that is subject to numerous health, environmental matters.
The Group monitors relevant legislation the Groups activities in respect of health, safety and environmental laws and regulations as well as community and regulations relating to health, safety and the environment to safety and the environment is set out in expectations.
Non-compliance could result in harm to the Groups ensure continued compliance.
The Group provides for future site the Corporate Sustainability report on workers, the environment and the communities in which the Group closure and remediation costs, based on analysis produced by pages 36 and 39 to 41. operates, disruption to the Groups operations, as well as fines and external expert advisors.
penalties and damage to its reputation.
