60 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Risk management During the year the Group and its Examples of mitigation include: Introduction subsidiaries complied with its policies and Our risk management processes are Optimising exchange rate exposure procedures for managing material risks.
designed to be forward-looking in the through the supply chain by raw identification, management and mitigation The risks described below include the main material sourcing, manufacturing of business risks that could impact the areas of risk that could impact Morgan and selling locally to minimise exchange Groups shortand long-term performance Crucible.
These cover most areas of known rate impact.
The processes will not eliminate and emerging business risk.
They include Minimising the impact on the Group risks but rather mitigate them to an internal risks where we have a greater of a major currency devaluation.
acceptable level within the context of degree of control and influence as well Fixing long-term pricing for the the business environment in which we as external risks where our ability to purchase of energy and other materials.
The process covers both risks completely control them may be more Entering into certain hedging and opportunities.
They are nevertheless assessed and arrangements to help manage the managed down to an acceptable level.
The impact of currency fluctuations the Management of business risk is an integral relative importance of some of these risks Groups relevant treasury policies are part of delivering performance and is has changed during 2008-09 as a result summarised in the Financial review on the responsibility of all managers.
Our of the world recession.
As a consequence pages 58 and 59. risk management decision-making and the controls to manage risk have been Managing pension funds using reporting procedures are integrated in our adjusted to ensure that the risks continue independent, competent Trustee Boards formal business reporting up to the Board.
to be managed within acceptable limits.
The Group appointed a new Director of Risk Further details of the Groups pension plans Assurance at the end of 2008.
During the Strategic planning risks and employee benefits are included in note year the Group reviewed and benchmarked These risks relate to the appropriateness 20 on pages 129 to 136. its risk management methodologies and of strategy, business model or product processes against external good practice.
Market dynamics and competition Following this review, the Board approved The risks to planning and delivery of Our products tend to be technologically a plan to evolve the existing processes to the strategy are also included.
advanced and use complex and a more coherent approach by using a high-added-value manufacturing External risks formalised and standardised risk management techniques.
We operate in a business Political, economical and social methodology throughout the Group.
environment where we need to be proactive We are exposed to these risks in a number with respect to market dynamics including Implementation commenced in 2009 and of countries in which we operate as part of customer preference, new technology and will continue through 2010 with regular realising business opportunities.
reports covering risk management processes within the local conditions while monitoring and key risks to the Audit Committee the political, economic and social changes in We monitor our current areas of business, and the Executive Committee through the these countries and adjusting our business working with our customers to ensure that Risk Management Committee.
The Risk plan, operations and controls accordingly.
we continue to satisfy their evolving needs.
Management Committee is chaired by Financial We adjust our strategies and business plans the Chief Financial Officer and includes Operating in a number of countries, we to reflect changing conditions, thereby representation from each Division.
The are exposed to events in the financial helping to ensure that risks are managed effectiveness of risk management and environment including commodity and within acceptable limits.
internal control processes is monitored by energy prices, currency exchange, the the Audit Committee, which also ensures current credit crisis and other financial market that the Board has sufficient information incidents, market volatility, interest rates, in this regard.
liquidity, pension funding, tax planning etc.
These risks are managed through proactive assessment, contingency planning and the use of appropriate mitigation.
61 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Compliance and ethics risks Human resources risks Business conduct risks Legal, regulatory and litigation The Group maintains human resource Risks such as a potential breach in the area We are subject to varying laws and policies and processes to manage the of ethical behaviour could impact the regulations around the world.
Changes Groups reputation or image.
risks relating to our people, eg reward in these could affect the longand and recognition, health and safety, talent Our reputation with our stakeholders is short-term value of the Group.
As a listed management including succession planning, fundamental to the continued success of company we are also exposed to the skills assessment and development, the Group and we mitigate reputational risks of ensuring compliance with listing performance management and employee risks through various means, including: requirements.
We cannot always predict consultation.
whether future developments in laws and Our corporate responsibility programme, Product development, performance regulations concerning our businesses will and our Core Values Statement.
and safety risks have an adverse or a positive effect.
Our Ethics Policy, Whistleblowing line Our products are used in many industrial and related procedures.
For example, a failure to comply with sectors including medical, aerospace and Our systems of internal control and export control regulations could have a defence.
These sectors require high quality risk management.
negative impact, whilst new environmental and conformance to specification as well performance legislation which affects as consideration of the health and safety The Groups Ethics Policy and Anti-Trust our customers could increase the demand of the end users.
Compliance Programme are further for our energy-conserving products and described in the Corporate responsibility Robust research and development services which can help our customers to section.
These programmes address the risk processes, both in-house and where address the requirements of such legislation.
of unethical business behaviour and are undertaken in co-operation with our supported by mandatory training and the To manage these risks, we monitor potential customers, minimise product development Groups Whistleblowing line and related changes in regulation as well as having risks.
Our design, testing and quality procedures.
appropriate training and compliance assurance processes, including ISO 9001 processes in place.
accreditations, help to control Operational risks manufacturing risks.
Financial, physical property, intellectual From time to time, and in the normal property and information course of business, we are subject to certain The Groups financial, physical and litigation, in particular in the USA.
Provisions intellectual property assets are exposed to for the expected costs and liabilities are risks such as theft, loss, natural catastrophe, set out in note 21 to the accounts.
If the accidental disclosure etc.
Such incidents can liabilities arising were significantly to exceed also impact the continuity of the business.
the amounts provided for, there could be a material financial effect on the value of These risks are managed through internal the Group.
controls, proactive design and protection of facilities and business continuity measures Health, safety and environmental to minimise the impact of an incident.
Our operations involve the normal Audits by experts in their fields including environmental, health and safety risks financial auditors review and assess the associated with manufacturing operations effectiveness of such measures.
in the countries in which we operate.
Although we believe that our operations In some cases, risks are partially transferred are in compliance with current regulations, through insurance programmes.
we cannot eliminate the risk of all accidents or non-compliance.
Further detail of the programmes in place to manage these risks are included on pages 51 to 53.
