888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Risk Report The Group operates in a dynamic business environment.
In addition addressed by rerouting traffic using different routes or providers.
to the day-to-day commercial risks faced by most enterprises, the 888 operates a 2457 Network Operations Centre NOC.
The NOCs online gaming industry faces particular challenges in respect of role is to conduct real time monitoring of production activities using Regulatory risk, Reputational risk, Information Technology risk and state-of-the-art systems.
These systems are designed to identify and Taxation risk, each of which is detailed below.
provide alerts regarding problems related to systems, key business indicators and issues surrounding customer usability experience.
Regulatory risk The regulatory framework of online gaming is dynamic and complex.
Taxation risk Change in the regulatory regime in a specific jurisdiction could have a The Group aims to ensure that each legal entity within the Group material adverse effect on business volume and financial performance is a tax resident of the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated and in that jurisdiction.
A detailed regulatory review is set out in previous has no taxable presence in any other jurisdiction.
customers are located worldwide, certain jurisdictions may seek to tax such activity which could have a material adverse effect on the Reputational risk amount of tax payable by the Group or on customers behaviour.
Under-age and problem gaming are inherent risks associated with the online gaming industry and the Group is no exception.
The The Group benefits from favourable fiscal arrangements in some of Group devotes considerable resources to putting in place prevention the jurisdictions in which it has taxable presence without which its measures coupled with strict internal procedures designed to prevent results would be adversely affected.
All gaming activities are based under-aged players from accessing its real money sites.
In addition, in Gibraltar, where the Group currently benefits from a tax exempt the Group promotes a safe and responsible gaming environment to status.
A change of control or activity of a tax exempt subsidiary its customers supplemented by its corporate culture.
The Group has would result in the loss of its tax status.
However, this is not a dedicated Director of CSR & Responsible Gaming tasked with the expected to have a material adverse effect on the overall tax rate of responsibility of implementing such policies.
Further details about the the Group.
The tax exempt status is due to expire by the end of 2010 Groups responsible gaming initiatives are set out in previous pages.
when the Government of Gibraltar intends to introduce a new fiscal regime that complies with EU requirements.
Information Technology risks As a leading online business, the Groups IT systems are critical to its Domestic corporate tax in Gibraltar is 22% 2009 2010.
The Group is reliant on the performance of these systems.
Chief Minister has announced further reductions in anticipation of the introduction of a flat tax rate of 10% in 2011.
A consultation is in Cutting-edge technologies and procedures are implemented place with respect to the new tax regime in Gibraltar and it is widely throughout the Groups technology operations and designed to anticipated, following Government indications, that the new rules protect its networks from malicious attacks and other such risks.
will subject the Group to an effective rate of tax well below the new These measures include traffic filtering, anti-DDoS Distributed Denial flat tax rate.
The Group is currently required to pay a gaming duty, of Service devices, Anti-Virus protection from leading vendors currently set at 1% of gaming yield, with an annual maximum cap and other such means.
Physical and logical network segmentation of 425,000 in aggregate, in respect of its Casino, Poker and Bingo is used to isolate and protect the Groups networks and restrict activities and, separately, at the same rate in respect of the Groups malicious activities.
In order to ensure systems are protected properly Sports offering.
The applicability of the gaming taxes following the and effectively, external security scans and assessments are carried implementation of the new tax regime is, as yet, unclear.
The Group has a high-end storage solution to ensure storage availability and performance.
All critical data is The Groups subsidiary in Israel, Random Logic Limited, and the replicated to another storage device for disaster recovery purposes Israeli branch of Intersafe Global Limited, have each entered into and all data is stored off-site on a daily basis.
separate transfer pricing agreements on an arms length basis with the Israeli Income Tax Commissioner.
The arrangements for In order to minimise dependencies on telecommunication service Random Logic Limited are effective until 31 December 2010, while providers, the Group invests in network infrastructure redundancies the arrangement for the Intersafe Global Limited branch terminated whilst regularly reviewing its service providers.
The Group has two on 31 December 2007.
The Group has discontinued the use of this internet service providers in Gibraltar in order to minimise reliance on branch.
The operation in Antigua also benefits from a low tax regime.
As a part of its monitoring system, the Group deploys set user experience tests which measure performance from different locations around the world.
Network-related performance issues are 26 17555 30 03 2010 Proof 11 17555888COM.
