Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Principal risks and uncertainties External risk Potential impact Mitigation Revenues in many of the businesses, The Group seeks to mitigate this risk through Economic conditions including UK Bus, UK Rail and Spain, proactive cost control, revenue management Whilst some of the Groups businesses are historically correlated to GDP systems, careful economic modelling of have naturally defensive characteristics to and employment.
new contracts and through sharing revenue the economic environment eg school bus, risk with the awarding body eg UK Rail and other parts of the business may be adversely Spain urban.
An inherent risk in contract bidding is that The Group seeks to mitigate this risk Contract risk bid assumptions might prove to be incorrect.
through careful economic modelling of new Much of the Groups business is secured If the Groups significant bid assumptions contracts, and by sharing revenue risk with through winning contracts and concessions, prove to be incorrect, this could have an the awarding body for example, with the particularly in its North American school bus adverse effect on results of the operations DfT in UK Rail.
business, in Spain and UK Rail.
and the Groups financial condition.
Competition creates pressure on areas The Group seeks to manage competitive Competition including pricing and service, potentially risks through a combination of marketing, The Groups businesses are exposed to impacting the results of the Groups service quality and price.
competitive pressures from other modes of operations and its financial condition.
transport and other operators in the same mode of transport.
Fuel costs constitute a significant proportion The Group seeks to mitigate risks of Fuel costs of the Groups costs and consequently, to increases in fuel costs by entering into fuel All of our businesses are exposed to fuel the extent that price increases cannot be swaps and purchase contracts.
costs primarily diesel for buses and passed on to customers, increases in fuel coaches, and gasoil or electricity for rail.
costs will significantly impact profitability.
Fuel prices are subject to significant volatility due to economic, political and climate circumstances.
Changes in political and regulatory The risk is reduced by maintaining close Political and regulatory environments can have significant impact relationships with key stakeholders and changes on regulated public transport businesses.
ensuring that the economic advantages The Groups businesses are subject to In particular, there is a risk of significant of our businesses are fully understood numerous laws in the jurisdictions in which additional cost being associated with and considered.
they operate regulating safety procedures, complying with changes in the regulatory equipment specifications, employment environment.
requirements, environmental procedures and other operating issues.
24 National Express Group PLC Operating Performance and Corporate Financial Overview review financial review responsibility Governance statements Every business faces risks and uncertainties across a range of strategic, commercial, operational and financial areas.
The Groups management recognises and prioritises those risks, and puts in place measures to mitigate them, in order to improve safeguards over future returns for shareholders.
Outlined below are potential risks that could impact the Groups performance.
These are monitored through the Groups risk management processes.
Additional risks and uncertainties not identified below may also have an adverse effect.
Internal risk Potential impact Mitigation actions Should any claim made by the DfT prove The Group has sought legal advice with East Coast franchise successful or the outcome of the net regard to these matters.
Based on this Following the DfTs termination of the East asset settlement with ECML be lower than advice, the Group is not expected to have Coast franchise in November 2009, the anticipated, then this could impact on the any further financial obligations to the DfT Secretary of State for Transport may seek to financial performance of the Group.
with regard to the East Coast franchise.
bring an action for damages against the Group.
Legal opinion with regard to the net asset Additionally negotiations with East Coast Main settlement supports the Boards view that Line Company Limited ECML with regard to the aggregate value of the separate assets and the Group is entitled to recover value for the liabilities that were transferred from NXEC to assets transferred to ECML on handover of the East Coast franchise.
Under the operation of the capped Management has obtained legal advice Inter-Capital Regional Rail Ltd contribution mechanism in the contract, an regarding this matter and is engaged in The Group holds a 40% investment in additional wash up payment may be due.
At 31 December ICRRL, which is contracted to provide This could increase the amount owing by the 2009 a provision of 27 million has been services to Eurostar until 31 December 2010.
Group at 31 December 2009 to 32 million.
recorded with regard to this overall liability.
In 2006 the Group designated this contract An associated cash outflow could also occur as onerous and recognised a provision of in future years.
The counterparty, LCR, has suggested that a further payment is due at the end of the contract.
Double running investment costs have The Group has put in place an assurance North American reduced the North American profit margin.
plan which continually monitors the delivery transformation There is a risk that the programme will not of the project and its targeted benefits.
The Group has invested heavily in successfully deliver the systems platform A number of revisions were made to transforming the North American business.
both the programme and North America The programme is intended to deliver cost management at the end of 2009, in order savings and service improvements.
to target and maximise results.
There is a risk that a successful claim or Throughout the business, a strong safety Insurance and claims series of successful claims may result in culture prevails, led by the Board Safety and The Groups policy is to self-insure a number substantial higher charge to profit and cash Environmental Committee.
Where claims of potential claims within its business.
arise, they are managed by experienced claims handlers and professional advice is obtained in order to evaluate and minimise cost to the Group.
In the event of any breach of covenant, the The Group has carried out a number of Financial Groups lending banks would be entitled actions in recent months to improve the The Group is dependent on maintaining to call an event default under the facilities financial position of the Group including certain financial ratios in order to comply and would be permitted to exercise certain successful rights and bond issues.
The with its banking covenants.
rights including the right to cancel facilities, Group has robust controls and processes which would have a material impact on the in place to monitor cash flows and Groups ability to continue trading.
forecasts to ensure adequate facility and covenant headroom is maintained.
