Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 33 Principal risks and uncertainties: Group We conduct regular risk reviews to identify risk materialise and or adversely affect our business or factors which may affect our business and financial financial performance performance.
Our Group internal audit function As the current economic environment remains dynamic facilitates risk reviews with each business, shared and challenging, the risk of weak trading conditions service operations and corporate functions, identifying continues in 2010 which could adversely impact the measures and controls to mitigate these risks.
The outlook for the Management is responsible for considering and company for 2010 is set out on page 15.
The effect of a executing the appropriate action to mitigate these continued deterioration in the global economy will vary risks whenever possible.
It is not possible to identify across our businesses and will depend on the depth, every risk that could affect our businesses, and the length and severity of any economic downturn.
actions taken to mitigate the risks described below cannot provide absolute assurance that a risk will not Our principal risks and uncertainties are outlined below.
Risk Mitigating factors Principal risks and uncertainties A significant deterioration in Group profitability The Groups approach to funding is described on and or cash flow caused by a severe economic page 30 and the Groups approach to the management depression could reduce our liquidity and or impair of financial risks is set out in note 19 to the financial our financial ratios, and trigger a need to raise statements.
additional funds from the capital markets and or renegotiate our banking covenants.
Our US educational solutions and assessment Our customer relationship teams have detailed businesses may be adversely affected by changes knowledge of each state market.
We are investing in in state and local educational funding resulting new and innovative ways to expand and combine our from either general economic conditions, changes product and services to provide a superior customer in government educational funding, programme and offering when compared to our competitors, thereby legislation both at the federal and state level, and reducing our reliance on any particular funding stream or changes in the state procurement process.
We generate a substantial proportion of our revenue in The Groups policy on managing foreign currency risk foreign currencies particularly the US dollar, and foreign is described in note 19 to the financial statements.
exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our earnings and the strength of our balance sheet.
Our intellectual property and proprietary rights may We seek to mitigate this type of risk through general not be adequately protected under current laws in vigilance, co-operation with other publishers and some jurisdictions and that may adversely affect our trade associations, advances in technology, as well results and our ability to grow.
as recourse to law as necessary.
We take steps to challenge illegal distribution sources.
Our reported earnings and cash flows may be We review our funding arrangements every three years adversely affected by changes in our pension costs and will take steps to ensure pension funding plans and funding requirements.
are sufficient to meet future liabilities without unduly affecting the development of the company.
We operate in a highly competitive environment that To remain competitive we continue to invest in our is subject to rapid change and we must continue to authors, products, services, technology and people invest and adapt to remain competitive.
to take advantage of these opportunities.
There is no guarantee that these investments will generate the anticipated returns or protect us from being placed at a competitive disadvantage with respect to scale, resources and our ability to develop and exploit opportunities.
