UnderStanding oUr riSKS Principal risks The Groups financial and operational performance is subject to a significant number of risks, which are subject to continual assessment by management to mitigate and minimise these risks.
There are also many risks which are outside of our control which can affect our business.
Our principal risks are: Impact Mitigation The housebuilding industry is sensitive to We minimise the level of speculative build National and regional changes in job growth, interest rates and undertaken by closely controlling our work economic conditions consumer confidence.
Further deterioration in in progress levels.
We carry out extensive economic conditions may significantly due diligence prior to our land investment decrease demand and pricing for new homes, decisions to capture best margins.
which could have a material effect on our business revenues, margins and profits and result in the impairment of asset values.
Any further restrictions in the market availability We ensure construction is matched to our Mortgage availability of mortgages for our customers could reduce level of sales.
We can use HomeBuy Direct demand for our homes and affect revenues, shared equity to enable buyers without large margins and profits.
deposits to purchase our homes.
Our ability to continue to manage our business The Group actively maintains a mixture of Capital requirements depends on our ability to access capital on medium and long term debt and bonding appropriate terms.
We could be adversely lines to ensure sufficient funds and bonding affected by a change in our credit rating or are available to support operations.
disruption in the capital markets resulting in credit facilities not being available.
We also require access to bonding facilities to secure planning, road and sewer agreements for our developments.
We operate in a market with many other We constantly review our prices and sales Competitive markets national, regional and local housebuilders.
incentives offered to customers to maintain Increasing levels of competition for a reduced appropriate sales volumes.
We plan our number of buyers could reduce the number of developments to provide the right house homes we sell and affect revenues, margins styles and specifications to suit the local and profits.
Our business is subject to extensive and We hold a landbank sufficient to provide Regulatory compliance complex laws and regulations principally security of supply for short term requirements.
relating to planning, the environment and We operate comprehensive management health and safety.
Our obligations to comply systems to ensure regulatory compliance with legislation can result in delays in land and reduction in reputational risk.
development and housebuilding activity causing us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and construction.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 17
