Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information PRINCIPAL RISKS REPORT the manner of conducting of foreign investments into companies The Risk Committee having strategic significance for securing the defence of the country The Risk Committee is appointed by the Board from the and the security of the State the Amendment Law and together NonExecutive Directors of the Company and has defined Terms with the Foreign Investment Law, the Laws.
The Foreign Investment of Reference, which are available on the Companys website.
Law imposes restrictions on the acquisition by foreign investors of direct or indirect interests in strategic sectors of the Russian Composition of the Risk Committee economy, including in respect of gold reserves in excess of a Name Date of Appointment to the Committee specified amount or any occurrences of platinum group metals.
Lord Guthrie None of the Groups assets were included on the list of Strategic Chairman of the Risk Committee 21 January 2008 Areas published by the Russian Government.
Graham Birch 12 February 2010 Peter HillWood 22 April 2009 Risks relating to the legal and regulatory environment in general Sir Roderic Lyne 22 April 2009 The exploration and extraction activities of the Group are subject to various laws governing prospecting, development, production Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the taxes, labour standards, occupational health, site safety, toxic Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Company substances and other matters.
Although the Directors believe that Chairman at regular intervals and they recommend to the Board any the exploration, development and production activities of the Group new appointments to the Committee.
The Committee is normally are currently carried out in accordance with all applicable rules and comprised of at least three NonExecutive Directors and two regulations relevant to the current stage of development and that members comprise a quorum.
they hold all necessary approvals, licences and permits under those laws and regulations for the Groups current activities, no assurance Meetings can be given that new rules and regulations will not be applied in a The Risk Committee meets at least three times a year and has manner which could limit or curtail exploration, production or development.
Amendments to current laws and regulations an agenda with items covering all risk areas identified by the Committee.
The agenda is approved by the Risk Committee governing operations and activities of exploration for and extraction of mineral resources, or more stringent implementation thereof, Chairman in advance of each meeting.
Each Risk Committee member has the right to require reports on matters of interest could have a material adverse impact on the business, operations and the financial performance of the Group.
in addition to routine items.
The Company intends to review its approach to risk management Risks associated with litigation with the aim of placing responsibility for risk review and Legal proceedings which do not have a material effect on the Group management with the executive management.
The Board or its operations arise from time to time in the ordinary course of the will retain ultimate responsibility by means of regular reports Groups business and the Directors cannot prevent litigation being by executive management.
brought against the Group or any of its subsidiaries in the future.
Principal risks relating to the Country-specific risks Company Group Risks relating to the jurisdictions in which the Group operates Legal and regulatory risks The Group may be adversely affected by changes in economic, Russian foreign investment legislation may impact transactions by, political, judicial, administrative, taxation or other regulatory factors and investments in, the Group or foreign policy in the areas in which the Group operates or will operate and holds or will hold its major assets, as well as other On 7 May 2008, legislation was introduced in the Russian unforeseen matters.
Federation regulating foreign investment into strategic sectors of the Russian economy the Federal Law No.
57FZ of 29 April 2008: Fluctuations in the global economy may adversely affect On the manner of conducting foreign investments into companies Russias economy having strategic significance for securing the defence of the country and the security of the State the Foreign Investment Law and Russias economy has recently become increasingly dependent Federal Law No 58FZ dated 29 April 2008 On introducing on global economic trends and is more vulnerable to market amendments in certain legal acts of the Russian Federation and downturns and economic slowdowns elsewhere in the world, declaring null and void certain provisions of legal acts of the Russian as well as to reductions and fluctuations in the prices of Federation in connection with the adoption of the Federal Law on hydrocarbons and minerals.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 47 PRINCIPAL RISKS REPORT CONTINUED Financial risks Currency risk The Group is dependent on revenue from key gold mines The Company reports in US Dollars, being the currency in which gold is principally traded and therefore in which most of its revenue A substantial portion of the Groups revenues and cash flows are is generated.
A large part of the Groups operating expenses are derived from sales of gold mined at Pokrovskiy and Pioneer, and denominated in Roubles and a substantial portion of corporate the Directors expect that these mines will continue to provide a overheads are denominated in GB Pounds Sterling.
The Companys substantial portion of the Groups operating revenues and cash financial condition and results of operations could be adversely flows in at least the short to medium term.
Consequently, the affected by changes in the exchange rates between the currencies Groups results of operations, cash flows and financial condition in which it operates.
could be materially and adversely affected by fluctuations in the price of gold realised by Pokrovskiy Rudnik or the Group, or by Operational risks the failure of the Pokrovskiy and Pioneer mines to produce the expected amounts of gold.
Notwithstanding anything in the operational risk factors, these risk factors should not be taken as implying that the Group will be The Malomir project is currently being prepared for production and unable to comply with its obligations as the Group with securities it is expected that the commissioning of the Malomir mine will take admitted to the Official List.
place in the second half of 2010.
It is intended that the Malomir project will commence works processing nonrefractory material The Groups future profitability is dependent on changes in its similar to Pokrovskiy ore: subsequently, it is expected that pressure technology for gold extraction oxidisation processing methods will be introduced to process Historically, the Group used heap leach and resininpulp RIP refractory material.
recovery routes at Pokrovskiy to extract gold from mined ore.
The profitability of the Groups operations and the cash flows The Groups level of profitability, results of operations and financial generated by its operations is affected by changes in the market condition are dependent on the continued ability satisfactorily to price for relevant metals and related products, which in the past operate the RIP plant.
The consistency of the head grade of ore have fluctuated significantly processed through the mill and heap leach operations can affect the productivity and profitability of that process.
Both the Pioneer Although the Groups anticipated cash operating costs, total cash costs and total production costs at Pokrovskiy are each expected to and Malomir mines will, in the future, need to switch to pressure oxidation methods for part of their gold recovery.
Technical failure be relatively low by world standards, the Groups ability to achieve or maintain earnings, pay dividends in the future and undertake or delays in their implementation could have an adverse effect on the Groups profitability at these mines.
capital expenditure may be affected in the event of a sustained material fall in the price of gold and or related products.
There can The Groups operations are subject to the inherent hazards also be no assurance that the Groups actual costs including cash and risks associated with the exploration for and development operating costs, total cash costs and total production costs will of mineral deposits not be higher than currently anticipated.
Any metals exploration programme entails risks relating to the The majority of the Groups revenues and cash flows have location of economically viable ore bodies or gold deposits, the historically come from the sale of gold.
Traditionally, the market development of appropriate metallurgical processes, the receipt of price for gold has fluctuated significantly and has been affected necessary governmental permits and the construction of mining by numerous factors, over which the Group has no control.
The geology in which vein gold occurs can In addition, the current demand for, and supply of, gold affects the make evaluations of the potential size of deposits especially difficult price of gold, but not necessarily in the same manner as current to determine, as the veins in which they occur have inherently demand and supply affect the prices of other commodities.
No assurance can be given that any Historically, gold has tended to retain its value in relative terms minerals exploration programme will result in any new commercial against basic goods in times of inflation and monetary crisis.
As a mining operation or in the discovery of new resources.
result, central banks, financial institutions, and individuals hold large Other hazards and risks include unusual and unexpected geological amounts of gold as a store of value, and production in any given formations, rock falls, flooding and other climatic conditions, any year constitutes a very small portion of the total potential supply one of which could result in damage to, or destruction of, the of gold.
Since the potential supply of gold is large relative to mine Groups facilities, damage to life or property, environmental damage production in any given year, normal variations in current production or pollution and legal liability which could have a material adverse will not necessarily have a significant effect on the supply of gold impact on the business, operations and financial performance of or its price.
Although precautions to minimise risk are taken, even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate all of the hazards and risks.
48 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information If the Group fails to acquire or find and develop additional reserves, Because the ore reserve and resource estimates are calculated its reserves and production will decline from their current levels based on current estimates of production costs and product prices, they should not be interpreted as assurances of the economic life of Except to the extent that the Group conducts successful exploration the deposits or the profitability of the Groups future operations.
and development activities or acquires further licences and or Reserve and resource estimates may require revisions based on properties containing reserves or both, the Groups reserves will definitive exploration figures and actual production experience.
decline as gold and iron ore are produced.
In addition, the volume Furthermore, a sustained decline in relevant market prices could of production from the properties generally declines as reserves are render ore reserves and resources containing lower grades and or depleted.
The Groups future production growth is dependent upon mineralisation uneconomic to recover and ultimately require a its success in finding or acquiring and developing additional restatement of reserves and resources.
If the Group is unsuccessful in this, the Groups total reserves and production will decline.
Payment and other obligations under licences and related agreements and contracts may not be complied with which may The Group may not be able to manage the expansion of its lead to, at worst, loss of mineral licences operations or have the resources to support its operations.
Licences: under the mineral licences and related agreements While the Group believes that it has necessary structures and which are held by the relevant companies in the Group or which management in place, there can be no guarantee that the Group will may be held by them in the future, such companies are or may be able to manage effectively the expansion of its mining operations become subject to payment and other obligations.
If such or that its current personnel, systems, procedures and controls will obligations are not complied with when due to be performed, in be adequate to support its mining operations.
addition to any other remedies which may be available to the state The Groups joint venture arrangements may not be successful authorities, this could result in the loss of such mineral licences.
Members of the Group are involved in a number of joint ventures.
Contracts: there are contractual agreements to which Group There are special risks involved in joint ventures by their nature, in companies are, or may in the future become, parties and which particular that relevant counterparties may: relate to direct or indirect interests held by such companies in or in respect of such mineral licences.
If the relevant company does not have different economic or business goals: comply with its payment or other obligations under such take action contrary to the policies or objectives of the other party agreements when they are due to be performed, in addition to any with respect to its investments, for example by vetoing proposals other remedies which may be available to other parties, this could on operations: or result in dilution or forfeiture of interests held by such companies.
as a result of financial or other difficulties, be unable or unwilling Risks associated with obtaining access rights to mining tenements, to fulfil their obligations.
land rights and third party rights Any of these may have a material adverse effect on the results of There may be cases where the Group requires additional rights to operations, financial condition or prospects of the Group through access or to exploit future mining projects.
operational issues arising or the delay or noncompletion of joint venture development projects.
In accordance with Russian legislation and terms commonly included in licence agreements, a licence holder is obliged to obtain Reserves and resources may be subject to restatement rights to the part of the licensed area where certain geological works are carried out.
This requires the licence holder to obtain lease The reserve and resource estimates of the Group are estimates of agreements and mine allotment acts in respect of those areas to the reserves and resources in the ground and stockpiles within ensure it has all of the required land rights together, Land Rights.
The ore reserve and resource estimates are The lease agreements must also be registered with the state to be based on many factors, including: enforceable.
If the Land Rights are not obtained, fines can be the results of exploratory drilling and an ongoing sampling of imposed on licence holders.
the ore bodies: past experience with mining properties: and the experience of the person making the reserve estimates.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 49 PRINCIPAL RISKS REPORT CONTINUED Operational failures, the impact of climatic conditions and other Dependence on certain key personnel unscheduled interruptions The Groups growth and future success will depend in significant The achievement of the Groups operational targets will be subject part upon the continued contributions of a number of the Groups to the completion of planned operational goals on time and key senior management and personnel, in particular the Groups according to budget, and will be dependent on the effective Chairman, Peter Hambro, and the Groups Chief Executive, Pavel support of the Groups personnel, systems, procedures and Maslovskiy.
Any failure of these may result in delays in the achievement There is no certainty that the services of these key persons will of operational targets with a consequent material adverse impact on continue to be available to the Group and, if the Group is not the business, operations and financial performance of the Group.
successful in retaining or attracting highlyqualified individuals The location of the Groups deposits means that climatic conditions in key management positions, its business may be harmed.
have an impact on operations and, in particular, severe weather could disrupt operations, including the delivery of supplies, Risks not covered by insurance equipment and fuel.
It is, therefore, possible that exploration and The Groups insurance coverage may not satisfy future claims extraction activity levels may fall as a result of meteorological factors.
against the Group or protect the Group against natural disasters Unscheduled interruptions in the Groups operations due to or operational catastrophes.
mechanical or other failures or industrial relationsrelated issues, The Group, as a participant in exploration and mining programmes, or problems or issues with the supply of goods or services may may become subject to liability for hazards that cannot be insured occur and could have a material adverse impact on the financial against, which could exceed policy limits or against which it may performance of those operations.
elect not to be so insured because of high premium costs.
The Group may incur a liability to third parties in excess of any insurance Lack of infrastructure or difficulties with stateowned infrastructure cover arising from pollution or other damage or injury.
Although a number of the Groups deposits are in regions with welldeveloped state infrastructure, some of its assets which are Costs of environmental compliance and rehabilitation not currently in production are situated in areas lacking some of The Group accrues estimated rehabilitation costs over the operating the necessary infrastructure, which must be developed.
Estimates of ultimate rehabilitation costs are subject to must invest heavily in the construction of the required mining and revision as a result of future changes in regulations and cost auxiliary infrastructure if it decides to proceed with the development estimates.
Construction and operation of this infrastructure will require substantial capital expenditure by the Group and no Risks in relation to licences, permitting and assurance can be given that market conditions will continue to environmental issues make such investments financially viable.
Risks relating to the licensing regime and extensions of existing licences Labour risks including health and safety issues The Groups production licences are granted for a defined period Certain of the Groups operations are carried out under potentially as specified in the terms of the relevant licence.
Whilst the Directors intend to continue to operate in accordance with relevant health and safety regulations Currently, the Subsoil Law does not provide for an automatic and requirements, the Group remains susceptible to the possibility extension of a mining licence or the upgrading of an exploration that liabilities might arise as a result of accidents, fatalities or other licence to a mining licence to its current holder, but allows the workforcerelated misfortunes, some of which may be beyond the current holder to apply to the licensing authority for the extension Groups control.
The occurrence of any accidents could delay of an existing licence or upgrading of an exploration licence to a production, increase production costs and or result in liability for mining licence provided that it has complied with the terms and the Group.
While the Group has been successful in renewing and or extending several of its gold extraction licences in the past, no assurances can be given that the Groups licences will be in a position to achieve renewal by way of extension.
The Group would be adversely affected if any extension, upgrade or renewal applied for was not granted.
The Groups mineral licences may be challenged.
50 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information The Groups operations depend on the Groups ability to During the conduct of its operations, the Group is subject to regular obtain necessary permits inspections and reporting requirements for a range of issues relating to environmental pollution, and must comply with maximum Generally, compliance with various government regulations will acceptable concentrations, determined by state authorities, for air require the Group to obtain permits issued by Russian quality, water quality, soils and sediments.
Any issues identified in governmental agencies, both to implement new developments or such inspections or reporting processes and or any breach of these projects or on the basis of periodic renewal or review for ongoing requirements could have adverse consequences for the Group.
Nonrenewal of a permit may cause the The Group may be subject to investigations by Rosprirodnadzor, Group to discontinue the operations requiring the permit, and the which may make announcements relating to such investigations imposition of additional conditions on a permit may cause the when they are at a very preliminary stage and in advance of any Group to incur additional compliance costs, either of which could findings, which could have an adverse impact on the Group.
have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
Overview The Group may not be able to, or may voluntarily decide not to, As a result of its work undertaken during the year, the Risk comply, or may not have complied in all respects, with the licence Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its requirements for some or all of the licences.
If the Group fails to fulfil terms of reference.
The Chairman of the Risk Committee will be the specific terms of any of its licences or if the Group operates in available at this years Annual General Meeting to answer any the licence areas in a manner that violates Russian law, regulators questions about the work of the Risk Committee.
may impose fines on the Group or suspend or withdraw or not renew its licences, any of which could have a material adverse Approval effect on the operational and financial position of the Group.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Environmental risks and issues arising from compliance with environmental regulations and permitting requirements Lord Guthrie The Groups operations are subject to the extensive environmental Chairman of the Risk Committee risks inherent in the mining and processing industry.
Although the 24 March 2010 Directors believe that the relevant Group companies are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations and hold all necessary approvals, licences and permits under those laws and regulations, there are certain risks inherent in their activities and those which the Group will undertake in the future, such as risks of accidental spills, leakages or other unforeseen circumstances, that could subject the Group to considerable liability.
In addition, the Group is subject to checks, including spot checks, by various regulators including the Russian environmental regulator, Rosprirodnadzor.
Environmental legislation and permitting requirements and the manner in which these are enforced are likely to evolve in a manner which will require higher and more demanding standards and stricter enforcement, as well as increased fines and penalties for noncompliance.
However, the Directors are unable to predict the extent and effect of additional environmental laws and regulations which may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would materially increase the Groups cost of doing business or affect its operations in any area.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 51
