41 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Group does not hedge profit translation exposure, During the year the Board also considered carefully the unless there is a corresponding cash ow, since such hedges rapidly changing economic environment that has affected all provide only a temporary deferral of the effect of movements businesses.
As a result, the Board decided to take steps to in exchange rates.
Similarly, while a significant proportion of renance the Companys banking facilities due to expire in the Groups borrowings are denominated in US dollars, the mid 2010 and this process was successfully completed, Group does not specically hedge all of its long-term as described in the Financial Review on page 40.
The new investments in overseas assets.
facilities expire in January 2013 and, together with the Groups continuing strong cash generation, provide the necessary International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs level of operational and financial exibility to meet the The Groups consolidated financial statements have been Groups funding requirements.
Based on these new facilities, reported in accordance with IFRSs.
The Group has not been our headroom on bank borrowings at the financial year end required to adopt any other new accounting standards during would have been 37 million which, together with our net the year which have had a significant impact on the cash of 39 million, gives us a healthy funding position.
Initiatives that drive operational and cash efficiencies are With effect from 2 February 2009, the Group has adopted particularly important in current market conditions and the IFRS 8, Operating Segments.
This will not affect the action taken by the Group in this regard is set out in the financial results of the Company but will have an impact on the Business Review, together with information on the Groups Groups segmental disclosure, in order to reect a format more markets and the impact of economic cycles.
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board The Groups risk management structure is kept under review on which operating decisions are made.
The 2009 results in order to ensure that it adapts to changing market conditions.
under the revised segmental format would be as follows: The process by which risks are identied, managed and mitigated forms part of the Groups system of internal control Revenue m that is described in detail on page 63.
The key risks identied EDE distribution businesses through that process and how they are managed are outlined Americas 335.5 below.
During the year the Board recognised the need to put in place additional measures to identify and manage risks to Europe and Asia Pacic 303.8 the Groups balance sheet arising from the turmoil in the Total EDE distribution businesses 639.3 financial sector.
An example of this is the renancing of the Other distribution businesses 87.8 Groups bank facilities described above.
Total distribution businesses 727.1 Market migration Industrial Products Division 77.3 By comparison with the migration of manufacturing to lower Group total 804.4 cost economies in recent years, Premier Farnells markets have remained geographically relatively stable.
While lower Underlying Total wage rates have attracted high volume manufacturing to Operating profit m m Eastern Europe and Asia, the migration of research and EDE distribution businesses development and small scale manufacturing, two of Premier Americas 31.2 30.3 Farnells primary customer groups, is less pronounced.
Europe and Asia Pacic 44.8 43.0 Work carried out as part of the Groups review of strategy, announced in October 2006, confirmed that much of the Total EDE distribution businesses 76.0 73.3 Other distribution businesses 9.7 9.5 electronic design engineering work which forms a large part of the Groups customer base has remained in regions in Total distribution businesses 85.7 82.8 which the Group has a strong presence.
In addition, there Industrial Products Division 14.3 14.1 is a large installed base of electronic equipment in Premier Head ofce costs 11.2 11.5 Farnells traditional geographic markets that needs maintaining, providing an ongoing market for the Groups maintenance Group total 88.8 85.4 and repair products.
Nevertheless, there is likely to be an ongoing decline in the Groups manufacturing customer base Details of the new accounting standards that are not in these geographic markets.
This risk is being addressed yet effective are given in the Accounting Policies on in two ways: first, by emphasising growth in the electronic pages 81 to 85. design engineering segment of the Groups customer base The financial statements of the Company for the year ended and, second, by continuing to increase the Groups presence in Asia and Eastern Europe.
Further progress was made in 1 February 2009 on pages 117 to 124 continue to be this area during the year with the launch of local transactional prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
websites in a number of Eastern European countries and in India and the acquisition of certain assets and trading rights Principal Risks and Uncertainties of the Microdis Holdings Group, the Companys former There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could have distributor in Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
an effect on the Groups performance.
As at the date of this The Group will continue to increase its presence in report, the Board considers the risks described below to be developing markets to mitigate dependence on territories the principal risks facing the Group.
where the market for its products and services is more mature.
R 42 Business Review continued R Principal Risks and Uncertainties Systems and infrastructure Web resilience The operations of the Groups main businesses are heavily As the volume of the Groups business transacted via the dependent on its principal distribution facilities in Gaffney web grows, it is increasingly important to ensure that the US, Leeds UK and Lige Belgium, from which a Groups websites are available to customers.
In common significant proportion of customer orders are despatched, with many other organisations, the Groups websites are and on the Groups IT hardware and software.
The Group occasionally subject to denial of service attacks by third takes steps to protect these distribution facilities with parties and to attempts to extract large volumes of data.
measures such as sprinkler protection and the separate This risk is addressed by regular testing of the security of the storage of highly ammable products and works closely websites using both internal and external security scans and with its insurers in assessing the risks of damage to these vulnerability tests.
IP addresses identied as the source of facilities.
In addition, business continuity plans exist and are attacks are blocked so that they cease to have access to the under review with the aim of minimising the adverse impact websites.
In addition, all sites have redundant servers that on the business should significant damage occur.
For the can be used in the event that the operating server is not UK and European business, this planning is assisted by the available for any reason.
Infrastructure improvements are Groups ability to switch order fullment between distribution made on a regular basis to address other causes of facilities in Leeds and Lige, as these facilities hold a unavailability of the sites.
In the US a review of warehouse management systems has led to improvements Foreign currency in performance and more robust contingency plans.
As a relatively high proportion of the Groups sales and operating profits arise in North America, the Groups reported The resilience of the Groups IT infrastructure is regularly results may be adversely affected should the US dollar weaken reviewed by management: external penetration testing and in value against sterling.
During the year under review, the internal disaster recovery tests are carried out and regularly US dollar strengthened compared with sterling but, should audited and the Group runs automated intrusion protection it weaken signicantly, the consequent profit translation risk systems.
Plans are developed to address areas of potential would amount to approximately 0.2 million per annum of weakness and, where practicable, these plans are fully tested.
operating profit for each one cent movement in the US dollar exchange rate.
The Group has denominated most of its Competitive pressures external borrowings in US dollars in order to mitigate this risk The Groups Marketing and Distribution Division, which and provide a hedge against dollar denominated operating accounts for 90% of the Groups sales, operates in a cash ows and the Groups US investments.
fragmented market with a number of international and many regional competitors.
This environment creates pressure on In addition to the US dollar, the other major currency for the prices that the Division is able to charge for its products which the Group has a translation risk is the Euro.
While there and on the levels of service it provides.
It is therefore was a benefit from the strengthening of the Euro towards fundamental that the Divisions proposition to its customers the end of 2008, a significant weakening of the Euro would remains attractive and at the forefront of its chosen markets.
adversely affect the Groups results.
This profit translation risk The Group maintains awareness of developments in the is approximately 0.2 million per annum of operating profit market, including actions by competitors, and anticipates for each one cent movement in the Euro exchange rate.
and responds to such developments.
The results of the The Groups policy is not to hedge profit translation risk review of strategy announced in October 2006 clearly dened unless there is a real cash exposure since such hedges the Groups emphasis on areas of profitable growth via provide only a temporary deferral of the effect of movements differentiation from its main competitors.
An important factor in exchange rates.
in recent years has been customer demand for the ability to transact with the Group electronically.
Electronic channels Human resources are increasingly preferred by customers and also bring As a service business, Premier Farnell relies heavily on its efficiencies to the Group.
There is, therefore, a significant employees.
It would be damaging to the Group if it were focus on the Groups progress in continually upgrading its unable to attract and retain personnel at key management eCommerce capabilities and offering.
This year has seen the levels.
The ways in which this risk is addressed are described roll out of new transactional websites based on its global in detail in the Resources and relationships section of this eCommerce platform in India and in Eastern Europe and the report.
development and testing of the Companys online community to support design engineers globally, which is to be launched Pension risks next year.
During the year the Group has introduced The Group operates dened benefit pension schemes in significant enhancements to the customer experience of the UK, US and Canada.
The net financial asset liability its existing websites, including eQuotes, the personalised of each scheme as quantied through actuarial review quoting facility in the USA, and, in Europe and Asia Pacic, is reected in the Groups balance sheet.
Movements iBuy, the eProcurement tool to assist customers with resulting from changes to the actuarial valuation results budgeting and buying efficiencies.
New analytical tools are reected through the Groups reserves and not through continue to help identify opportunities to improve both the income statement.
The increased speed and stability of the websites has led to significant increases in eCommerce revenues.
Improving electronic channels is part of delivering a multi-channel approach that provides exibility for customers and reduces the cost to serve.
