Risk management and risk factors RISK MANAGEMENT Effective management of risk is critical to achieving the Groups strategic objectives, protecting our people and reputation and creating sustainable shareholder value.
Risk management at Premier Foods Our risk management process comprises three main We recognise at Premier Foods that effective risk elements: management is an integral part of the overall achievement of the Companys strategic objectives.
We have established A formal risk structure underpinned by effective policies a governance structure that is intended to support the early Bottom up risk reviews identification and mitigation of key business risks and this Top down risk reviews has been strengthened over the course of 2009 as set out below.
An overview of the risk management process is provided as follows: PLC BOARD IDENTIFY AND MITIGATE ASSESS AND MANAGE Bi-annual risk review GROUP AUDIT AND Risk action plans EXECUTIVE FINANCE Board oversight Performance review COMMITTEES Risk ownership Governance framework RRG process POLICY RISK STEERING REVIEW GROUP GROUP GROUP FUNCTIONS AND DIVISIONAL EXECUTIVES BUSINESS OPERATIONS EMBED AND MONITOR Divisional and functional risk registers Internal control self assessment Policies and procedures Organisational design Project governance Assurance 36 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that for effective mitigation.
Every six months the risk register is business risks are effectively managed.
The Board has submitted to the Risk Review Group for review.
considered and approved the risk management policy and risk The Risk Review Group, is chaired by Suzanne Wise and appetite of the Company and has delegated the regular review meets quarterly.
The Group, which includes the Chief Financial of the risk management process to the Audit Committee to Officer, Group Operations Director, Group Procurement ensure compliance with the requirements of the 2005 Turnbull Director, Chief Operating Officer Hovis and Chilled, Managing Guidance on internal control and risk management.
The Audit Director Grocery Division, Group Treasurer, Group Head of Committee also receives regular reports from the internal Operational Excellence and Head of Risk and Corporate and external auditors and monitors progress against agreed Responsibility, performs the following activities: action plans arising from control reviews.
It also reviews the results of the Internal Control Self Assessment process which Reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management is conducted annually across the business.
Details of this process and making recommendations to the Audit process are included in the section on corporate governance.
Committee, as appropriate Discussing emerging risks and their potential impact on the During 2009 a new Finance Committee was established, Company, for onward review with the Group Executive under the chairmanship of David Beever, non-executive Receiving presentations from management and providing director.
The Committee includes as members the Company challenge in relation to risk management actions and their Chairman and two further non-executive directors, Ian effective implementation McHoul and Charles Miller Smith, and, in addition, the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasurer and Every six months the Group Executive reviews the corporate has as part of its terms of reference the consideration of risk register and assesses progress on the implementation financial and financing risks.
Further details of the Board of mitigation strategies along with consideration of new and and its Committees are included in the section on corporate emerging risks.
The results of each Group Executive risk review are presented A Policy Steering Group has been established under the to the Board for consideration.
Additionally during 2009, chairmanship of Suzanne Wise, General Counsel & Company a separate risk session was held with the non-executive Secretary.
The Group, which meets quarterly and includes directors without the presence of management.
The purpose as members the Group Procurement Director, Director of of this session was to provide additional challenge to the Technical and Head of Risk and Corporate Responsibility, internal risk process by considering risk in its widest context, considers the effective implementation of corporate policies in particular taking account of the following: taking account of changes in regulation and other business risks.
Day-to-day risk management is the responsibility of The world in which we operate business management as part of their everyday business Our marketplace processes and is encompassed within the Companys policies Premier specific risks and procedures to ensure that it is fully embedded.
There is a structured business review process that operates across The results of the discussion were presented, by the all divisions and this, along with the corporate governance Chairman, to the Group Executive and formed part of the framework as defined by the Board and Committee structure, overall process for reviewing the corporate risk register at the underpins the ongoing management of risk.
end of the financial year.
Following the success of this process it is intended that it will be adopted on an annual basis going forward.
Each division and Group function is also required to maintain a risk register which includes the key risks that have been identified, their potential impact and probability of occurrence, the risk owner, action and action owner along with timescales www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 37 Risk management and risk factors continued Risk Factors Through its normal business operations, Premier is exposed to a number of risks, factors and market trends which could impact on the results of the Group.
These may be common to the food industry generally or relate specifically to the Company.
The key factors identified by the Board are highlighted below together with the relevant management responses which are designed, where possible, to help mitigate the potential impact on the business.
Risk area and potential impact Management response INDUSTRY RISKS AND TRENDS Raw materials The Group purchases a significant amount of raw materials Premier has a centralised Procurement function with a global each year.
In recent years there has been a significant sourcing strategy.
We are a significant purchaser of raw increase in the cost of raw materials and other input costs materials in the UK which assists us in negotiating better such as utilities.
Any inability or delay in passing on increases terms and lower per unit costs.
We are able to source goods in raw material costs to our customers or to source raw from around the world and develop strong relationships materials of an acceptable type or quality could adversely with our key suppliers.
To date we have a strong record of affect the results of the Group.
successfully recovering input cost increases.
Competition There is strong competition between manufacturers in the Premier is the largest food producer in the UK.
The market is served by a number of model is to use this scale to drive competitive advantage.
well-established companies that operate on both a national Our focus on the UK and the range of categories we operate and international basis within single or multiple product in also give us a deep insight into consumer trends in food.
We face competition at a category level from these Our scale allows us to procure more effectively and the companies on both branded and unbranded products.
Our consolidation of our asset base helps to drive efficiency.
ability to compete effectively requires us to be successful in the sales and marketing of our existing products, new product development and innovation, in addition to operating efficient and effective manufacturing and procurement processes.
Economy Our business could be adversely affected by general Whilst general economic conditions are outside of the business conditions and a worsening of the economy both Companys control we believe that our portfolio of staple generally and in the UK and Ireland.
Factors such as taxation, food products and popular brands should continue to prove interest rates, inflation, the availability and cost of credit, and resilient in the current difficult economic environment.
Premier the liquidity of the global financial markets could significantly has a good track record of industrial relations and continues affect the activity level of customers.
A continued economic to work with employees and their representatives to mitigate downturn may lead to a decline in the volume of sales of the risk of any industrial action.
premium brands, and may increase promotional pressure.
In addition it may also lead to an increase in industrial action within the food industry and more generally.
Customers Our ability to compete in the retail food industry and the Our size and scale coupled with our focus on the UK enable results of our operations could be adversely affected if the us to work with customers to provide consumers with more concentration and buying power of grocery retailers increases.
choice and convenience and to coordinate activity to drive The strength of the major multiple retailers bargaining volume.
position gives them significant leverage over their suppliers in dictating pricing, product specification and the level of supplier participation in promotional campaigns and offers.
38 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Risk area and potential impact Management response INDUSTRY RISKS AND TRENDS Consumer preferences There are a number of trends in consumer preferences which We recognise that consumers are at the heart of what we do.
impact on Premier and the industry as a whole.
These include, We have a Consumer Insight team whose role is to monitor amongst others, dietary concerns and fashions and changes and understand the current trends within the categories in preference for fresh and chilled foods, ready prepared foods that we operate.
They also help identify opportunities for and organic foods.
Furthermore, concerns as to the nutritional our brands to expand into new categories or by making our value of certain foods increasingly results in food manufacturers products more relevant to more eating occasions.
being encouraged to produce products with reduced levels of salt, sugar and fat and to eliminate trans-fatty acids from In addition, we have a cross-functional steering committee the ingredients used.
These trends may reduce demand for responsible for monitoring and responding to nutrition and certain of our products and providing or developing modified or ingredient issues and reviewing our products against relevant alternative products may increase our costs.
Regulation As a manufacturer of products intended for human Premier is committed to complying with all its statutory consumption, we are subject to extensive UK and EU and regulatory obligations and to managing its business in legislation and regulation in respect to: product composition, a socially responsible manner.
Food quality and safety is manufacturing, storage, handling, packaging, labelling, embedded in the Quality Management System we operate advertising and the safety of our products: the health, safety at each site and is the subject of independent monitoring.
and working conditions of employees: pensions: and our Performance in the areas of food safety and health & safety competitive and marketplace conduct.
Failure to comply with are closely monitored and reported to and reviewed by the regulations or the introduction of new regulatory requirements Group Executive and Board on a regular basis.
may affect our business operations and have an adverse effect on our results.
OPERATIONAL RISKS AND TRENDS Suppliers We are dependent on the provision of products from key Our procurement team reviews and monitors suppliers by suppliers.
A loss of these suppliers could cause short-term category as part of its risk assessment process.
Risk can disruption to the operational ability of the Group.
be measured across a number of factors including the total size and availability of the supply, whether we are dependent upon a sole supplier, whether the supplier is in financial difficulties.
Where necessary contingency plans are put in place and the situation monitored.
Seasonality Consumer demand for convenience foods tends to be higher Management plans for changes in seasonal demand for its in colder months of the year.
Sales of certain of our products products and where possible builds contingency around may therefore be affected by unseasonable weather changes in seasonality.
Also certain of our products see increased sales during the pre-Christmas period and this has an impact on working capital as production is higher and stock levels build in the run-up to this period.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 39 Risk management and risk factors continued Risk area and potential impact Management response OPERATIONAL RISKS AND TRENDS Licences and intellectual property Whilst the majority of the intellectual property used in our Premier develops long-term and lasting relationships with the business is owned, we have entered into medium to longowners of licensed brands.
We also recognise that our own term licensing arrangements for the use of certain brands.
intellectual property is one of our most important assets and These agreements and licences under which we produce in order to maintain and increase the value of these assets, certain of our branded products will expire and may not be we actively manage our brand portfolio.
We ensure that our renewable on terms acceptable to us or at all.
The failure to trade marks are registered in the jurisdictions where our renew one or more of our licences could have an adverse products are marketed.
effect on the results of our operations.
Brand management We are dependent on the successful management of our Premier has a strong track record of brand rejuvenation and key brands.
Most of our key brands have been marketed innovation.
We believe that branded sales growth can be for several decades.
Our marketing teams must continue to achieved through product innovation and quality, though support our brands through programmes of investment in new stretching our brands into new categories and by increasing product development, product repackaging, brand relaunches the frequency of purchase by making our products more and marketing efforts in order to continue to generate revenues relevant to more eating occasions.
and maintain or increase market share.
We must also anticipate changes in consumer preferences and develop new products in response to these changes.
If we are not successful in our brand management efforts, the results of our operations and our profitability could be materially adversely affected.
Damage to sites and IT systems Certain of our manufacturing sites are at a statistical risk of Fire and flood risks are monitored closely under health & suffering damage from floods or fire, given the flammable safety and reported to and reviewed by the Group Executive nature of flour and the frying and baking activities carried and Board on a regular basis.
Business continuity and out at several such sites.
We are also exposed to losses disaster recovery plans are in place across the Group.
We from inadequate or failed internal information technology also have in place a Group insurance policy which covers processes and systems.
Product quality and safety Our products are subject to a number of supply and The Company takes product quality very seriously and has manufacturing processes.
A failure to control the quality of rigorous quality assurance processes in place to minimise these processes, or the occurrence of some external event any potential risk.
e. g. third party contamination may result in remedial action such as product recalls which could result in damage to our brands reputation.
40 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Risk area and potential impact Management response FINANCIAL RISKS AND TRENDS Leverage and liquidity Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our financial The Board has now completed its review of the Groups well-being.
There is a risk that a greater level of cash flow than capital structure and announced in March 2009 an anticipated may be required to service our debt for example, equity issue, which we believe, combined with amended due to a rise in interest rates or that our debt level may limit banking facilities and an agreed schedule of pension our ability to react to changing market conditions.
There is deficit contributions, has enabled us to put in place a more a risk that in certain circumstances, we may be unable to appropriate capital structure for the Group and in turn, replace existing facilities when they come up for renewal.
provide a solid platform for future development.
The Board and Finance Committee closely monitors the Groups level of debt and liquidity to ensure that it meets its covenant requirements and also has sufficient working capital.
We seek to mitigate the effect of movements in interest rates by entering into interest rate swaps that reduce our level of exposure to floating rates in relation to the debt portfolio of the Group.
Interest rates swaps As set out above we enter into interest rate swaps.
There is a The Groups policy is to have interest rate hedging in place risk that we will not be able to replace the interest rate swaps for the majority of its borrowing.
Interest rate exposure is and other financial derivatives on favourable terms when they actively monitored by the Board and the Finance Committee.
The terms and conditions of some of our swaps result in a rise in the Groups interest cost as interest rates fall.
In addition we have a number of long dated interest rate swaps outstanding, which can be terminated at the option of our counterparties.
In the event that such a swap is terminated, we could be liable to make a payment to the counterparty based on the mark to market value of the swap at such time.
Any such payment may be a material cost and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and the results of our operations.
Currency exchange fluctuations We source raw materials from countries around the world Exchange rate exposure is reviewed by the Board and the and export our products to various countries.
The translation exposure resulting from financial position and the results of our operations are subject euro-denominated profits and overseas net assets is hedged.
to currency transaction risk primarily against the US dollar, We review the commercial position of the business and euro and Swedish krona.
We generate some of our profits selectively enter into forward currency contracts to hedge in non-sterling currencies and have assets in non-sterling against our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate jurisdictions, principally the euro.
fluctuations in the purchase of raw materials and in our export business.
This hedging helps to reduce our exposure to shortterm volatility in exchange rates.
Pension schemes We have defined benefit pension plans that are currently The Board and the Finance Committee regularly reviews in deficit on an actuarial basis.
Valuations of all defined the value of assets and liabilities under the Groups pension benefit plans are dependent upon market conditions and the schemes as well as the potential impact of changes in actuarial methods and assumptions including assumptions actuarial assumptions.
as to mortality, and we may be required to pay increased pension contributions which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 41
