Principal risks & uncertainties Principal risks & uncertainties Every business activity brings with it a degree of risk and the Board recognises that Arriva must therefore manage a range of risks in the course of its activities.
We conduct an annual impact assessment to review the scale and probability of the principal risks to the business.
As part of our ongoing programme of risk assessment and management, we have identified the following actual and potential risks as those which the directors believe could have a material impact on the long-term value generation of the group.
The factors described below are not intended to form a definitive list of all risks and uncertainties.
In particular the list excludes generic risks common to many companies such as terrorism, pandemics and succession planning.
Area of risk Description and management strategy 1.
Market risks A considerable proportion of the groups income is derived directly or indirectly from 1a.
Changes in national public national public transport budgets.
Changes in these budgets can have positive or negative transport budgets impacts on the groups prospects.
Investments are made assuming a long-term presence in specific markets.
Significant reductions in transport budgets to address public sector deficits may reduce the potential for growth or the current volume of operations.
Conversely, some governments have responded, or plan to respond, to the recession with significant investments in public transport and infrastructure as part of fiscal stimulus packages.
In addition, liberalisation of markets may accelerate to deliver the improved value for money which the private sector offers.
The level of uncertainty on this issue has increased over the year.
Management strategy The group continues to monitor national public transport budgetary policies in the countries where it operates, and ensures it is strategically aware in order to understand possible changes, be in a position to influence them, and react in a timely fashion.
We are factoring an increased level of risk into investment decisions, and continue to lobby for market opening and for value-for-money testing by public transport authorities.
50 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Arriva must manage a range of risks in the course of its activities Review of 2009 Review of 2009 Area of risk Description and management strategy 1b.
Changes in public transport In the UK the Local Transport Act 2008 is now in force and further major changes to public legislation or regulation transport legislation in the UK are not anticipated in the medium term.
The UK Department for Transport has announced changes to the Bus Service Operators Grant BSOG from April 2010 and a more fundamental reform of BSOG, moving away entirely from fuel tax treatment towards a per passenger payment, to be fully implemented by 2020.
Adverse impacts from passenger rights legislation are, however, now a much reduced risk.
The UK Competition Commission has recently begun an investigation into regional bus services in England, Scotland and Wales, a new risk which could have significant implications for that segment of the business.
European Union EU Public Service Requirements PSR regulations, implemented in December 2009, set out the procedure under which clear, transparent and time-limited contracts must be in place where public authorities provide support payments for bus and rail services, with a transitional period expiring in December 2019.
This represents a minor new downside risk by imposing an end date by which a small amount of Arrivas mainland European business will become exposed to competitive tender, but also represents a much greater upside risk through an increase in the size of the addressable market, as the work of incumbent operators becomes available for competitive tender.
Management strategy Our UK and mainland European management actively engage with local authorities, national governments and EU institutions regarding the formulation and implementation of transport-related legislation, and we continue to work with industry partners to represent the best long-term interests of the industry and its customers.
Arriva will work with the UK Competition Commission throughout the investigation period and ensure that the groups position is clearly and strongly represented.
Operational risks The Board recognises the importance to the business, as a public transport operator, of maintaining high standards and the consequences of failing to do so.
Related legislation, best practice and working circumstances are continually changing.
The group needs to ensure its related policies are complied with and appropriately reduces its exposure to related penalties and bad publicity.
Management strategy The safety committee of the Board oversees the groups health and safety policy and the arrangements for its implementation and reporting.
Monitoring of environmental performance is carried out by a corporate responsibility committee which includes senior representatives of all group businesses and reports to the group executive committee.
The Arriva environmental management system holds a senior manager in each business accountable for compliance with group policy and local legislation.
For more information see corporate responsibility, page 56, and corporate governance, page 97.
51 Principal risks & uncertainties continued Area of risk Description and management strategy 3.
Commercial risks The impact of ongoing economic uncertainty to the group is likely to be in the areas of 3a.
Uncertainty over the ongoing the groups ability to raise finance and a deterioration in patronage financial performance, impact of economic volatility especially in the CrossCountry rail franchise.
Financing risks receded over the year as the group has successfully accessed the capital markets, which have remained open.
In the CrossCountry franchise, stronger passenger revenue growth has resumed in recent months.
Management strategy - operations Arrivas balanced portfolio of operations, between bus and rail, and between different countries, minimises its exposure to any downturn in individual market sectors.
The revenue risk associated with any potential loss of consumer demand from the travelling public is mitigated by the substantial proportion of the groups revenues which flows from nonpassenger sources see page 8.
The groups robust capital structure and high level of liquidity have been effective in mitigating the impact of the economic downturn.
In addition to the groups established budgeting and forecasting processes, all business units have carried out close monitoring of patronage and profitability and, where appropriate, carried out remedial action such as adjustments to routes, vehicles in operation and staffing levels.
Most tendered net cost contracts described on page 3 require the operator to deliver specified services whilst retaining the income from passengers.
In contracts where passenger income represents a significant proportion of total revenue, the group is exposed to the risk of passenger revenue being higher or lower than anticipated.
Historically, passenger revenue growth is highly correlated with growth in local economies.
Our UK CrossCountry rail contract is a particularly large contract with these characteristics, and to deliver the anticipated returns required at inception, over eight per cent annual revenue growth in real terms is needed, much of which is dependent on overall economic growth.
This financial risk is partially mitigated by a contracted revenue risk sharing mechanism which takes effect from November 2011.
The principal financial arrangements are: Percentage shortfall on target revenue support Revenue support 0-2% Nil 2-6% 50% 6% and higher 80% Management strategy - finance The group has continued to have access to credit markets on satisfactory terms throughout the recent global financial crisis.
Available facilities at 31 December 2009 are set out in the borrowing facilities section of the financial review page 48, and are adequate for the foreseeable future.
Group treasury policy is to operate with headroom of a minimum of 100 million for a rolling period of 12 months.
Headroom on committed facilities at 31 December 2009 was 343 million.
52 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Review of 2009 Review of 2009 Area of risk Description and management strategy 3b.
Franchise tender bid Errors or inaccurate assumptions in tenders or acquisitions represent a risk to the business.
costing and revenue A number of procedures are in place to mitigate this risk.
forecasting Production of business models and other relevant data is critical to pricing decisions for all new franchises and tenders across the groups operations.
The likelihood of inaccurate assumptions has increased given the greater uncertainty in the economic environment, although this is offset through the group having more bidding experience and raising the hurdle rate of return for investment in the current environment.
Management strategy The Board approves all business acquisitions and disposals in excess of 25 million, and all tenders with a requirement for invested capital exceeding 50 million.
Standard tender models are in use across the business.
Significant bus and train tender contracts are compared with current experience to identify weaknesses and potential improvements in the tender process.
Post-investment appraisals are carried out through quarterly business review meetings.
Acquisitions Acquisitions of businesses have been a historically important part of Arrivas growth strategy.
It could be damaging financially to Arriva if material new acquisitions were made at excessive costs or with material hidden liabilities, although no significant acquisition has been made since July 2008.
Management strategy Arriva has clearly defined guidelines for due diligence work and internal reporting on potential acquisitions, which require the monitoring of such items by the executive directors subject to delegated authority limits.
Sale and purchase agreements include price adjustment mechanisms and warranties, as appropriate.
Financial risks As noted in the financial review, the groups financial risks, including those arising from interest rates, commodity prices, currency fluctuations and retirement benefit obligations, are managed by the group treasury function in accordance with a formal Board approved treasury policy.
Management strategy Fluctuations in interest rates are managed through the use of interest rate derivatives and the level of hedged fixed rate debt.
The groups fuel hedging policy reduces the potential disruptive effect of short-term fluctuations in the cost of fuel and provides time to manage the business effectively in the light of longer-term price trends.
Where practicable we match fuel hedges to significant specific contracts to reduce risk further.
The group policy on foreign exchange is that the risk of translating non-UK assets and liabilities into sterling should be around 50 per cent of the balance sheet exposure, to reduce the risk to equity upon translation of euro-based net assets and also the impact upon the groups overall level of sterling debt.
For more details on the above three items, see the financial review on pages 46 and 47.
Increased retirement benefit obligations may require additional contributions to be made by companies to state or other schemes.
Such contributions could have a material impact on the group.
We perform regular pension strategy reviews with the groups pension advisors, and monitor developments in group pension schemes and state schemes where we operate.
The risk has been reduced recently by the curtailment of benefits in the groups largest sponsored scheme see page 45.
53 Notes 54 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Our approach 56 Safety 59 Community 63 Employees 69 Environment 73 55
