Review of the year Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Principal Risks and uncertainties The Group might be affected by a number of risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operations and financial performance.
The risks associated with the Groups financial instruments are detailed in the note 30 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Group is exposed to a number of other risks, some of which may have a material impact on its results.
It is not possible to identify or anticipate every risk that may affect the Group, some of which may not be known or may not have been assessed.
Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in different economic, social and political environments and to manage and to mitigate such risks.
the loss of a major customer might adversely impact the Groups financial performance Sales to a small number of customers represent a substantial portion of the Groups revenues and the loss of any major customer either to a competitor or through its own business circumstances might impact significantly on the Groups financial condition.
Mitigating actions Wherever possible we enter into longterm contracts, although the renegotiation of such contracts is possible in difficult market conditions.
We concentrate on customers that are financially strong with a clear strategic vision for the PV industry, and accordingly have the potential to be longterm major players in the industry.
We work with our customers to ensure that the quality, specifications and efficiency of our wafers are suitable for their current and future needs.
the success of our polysilicon facility at Bitterfeld is critical for the Groups long-term profitability and to enhance corporate know-how The polysilicon facility at Bitterfeld represents a new technology area for the Group.
The success of the facility will give the Group access to significant quantities of solar grade polysilicon at costs below those obtainable from third party suppliers, and will give the Group the knowledge, experience and ability to build similar facilities in the future should such be required.
Mitigating actions We have located next to Evonik, the worlds largest manufacturer of chlorosilanes, from whom we purchase, rather than manufacture, the input gas silicon tetrachloride.
We have engaged Evonik as an engineering partner in the design and manufacture of large sections of the facility and it assisted us in commissioning the facility.
We have ensured the quality of the silicon produced during the ramp up phase so that wafers produced are consistent with standard production using boughtin polysilicon feedstock.
We used detailed project planning techniques during the building, commissioning and ramp up of the facility and have learnt from all stages of that process.
our reliance on key suppliers could adversely impact our financial performance The Group is reliant on certain key suppliers.
Evonik are integral to our production facility at Bitterfeld where they supply silicon tetrachloride in a fence to fence operation.
Polysilicon feedstock is purchased from two suppliers and we subcontract the wafering of 70% of our output in Japan.
Mitigating actions We have a ten year contract in place with Evonik for the supply of silicon tetrachloride.
Longterm contracts were negotiated with the suppliers of polysilicon.
We have built our own polysilicon production facility at Bitterfeld to give the Group its own source of polysilicon feedstock.
We have a longterm contract with our major wafering subcontractor.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PV Crystalox Solar PLC 17 Principal Risks and uncertainties continued Government incentives and support are crucial to stimulate the take up of solar electricity Until such time as grid parity is reached the solar industry is dependent on the support of individual governments to encourage the installation and use of solar electricity within their territories.
Without such support the increased uptake of solar electricity may be slow to develop.
Mitigating actions We work with various PV industry bodies which seek to encourage governments to support solar electricity generation.
We focus on supplying those major PV companies with superior market shares and operating efficiencies, which are better equipped, therefore, to sell product into their markets.
We ensure that the Group operates internationally thus spreading risk among several markets.
We focus on cost reduction and efficiency enhancement strategies to reduce the need for government support in the long term.
over capacity in the PV industry reduces wafer prices and adversely impacts on profitability Over capacity in the PV industry has caused significant reductions in module prices during 2009.
This reduction in module prices has led to a reduction in wafer prices.
Further capacity is still coming on stream and it could be several years before the supply demand capacity comes into balance.
The reduction in price has led to reduced profitability across the value chain resulting in the governments of Germany and France reducing levels of support for solar electricity generation by cutting the feed in tariffs.
Mitigating actions We have worked with our customers to maintain contract volumes.
We have negotiated reduced wafering costs with our subcontractors.
We have invested in the silicon production facility at Bitterfeld to enable the Group in the long term to obtain polysilicon feedstock at costs lower than can be obtained from third party suppliers.
We focus on cost reduction and efficiency enhancement strategies.
We have a strong net cash position which gives the Group the strength to weather the mediumterm price squeeze.
Exchange rate fluctuations might create earnings and balance sheet fluctuations The Group reports in Euros but operates internationally and has operating subsidiaries reporting in Sterling, Euros and Japanese Yen, and is therefore subject to currency fluctuations arising on transactional foreign currency exposures and the translation of subsidiaries balance sheets.
Mitigating actions We strive for a natural hedging position at operating level by sourcing raw materials and other direct materials and services where possible in the same currencies as sales revenues are derived.
We have been working to balance exposure to currency amounts receivable by matching these with equivalent liabilities in the same currencies.
The Group has large balances receivable in Japanese Yen in respect of accounts receivable and has taken out borrowings in Japanese Yen to reduce the impact of any changes in the Japanese Yen exchange rate.
18 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Review of the year Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Loss of a key production facility could disrupt our ability to deliver contracted wafer volumes The Group only sells wafers but has operations at different stages in the value chain.
The loss of a facility at any stage would impact our ability to fulfil contracted wafer volumes thereby reducing sales.
Mitigating actions We use two different polysilicon feedstock suppliers and have built our own polysilicon factory in Bitterfeld, Germany.
We operate two ingot manufacturing facilities in the United Kingdom.
We have our own wafering operation in Germany and two subcontractors to process our ingots into wafers in Japan.
We have health and safety, fire prevention and security procedures in place at all facilities.
We have comprehensive property damage and business interruption insurance in place.
We rely on our employees and the recruitment and retention of key personnel for our success The success of the Group relies on the performance and knowledge of our employees in the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan.
We are mindful of the need to attract, retain and train the personnel capable of delivering our strategic and operational objectives.
The performance of the Group might be disrupted should we fail in this respect or adequately plan for succession.
Mitigating actions The Groups nomination committee annually reviews succession planning and is responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board and senior management vacancies as and when they arise.
The Groups remuneration committee has introduced a single Group wide performance management process for senior managers.
The Groups remuneration committee has commissioned a review of equity incentive arrangements to support better the Groups business objectives.
Failure to act safely and to maintain the continued safe operation of our facilities might have a detrimental impact on the Groups operations The safety of our employees, contractors, suppliers, the communities in which we operate and the consumers of our products, is of paramount importance to the Group.
Around the world the Group is subject to laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to health, safety and the environment, including pollution.
The Groups revenues depend on the continued operation of our various manufacturing facilities, and the consistent production of finished products that meet our customers specifications.
The operation of our plants involves many risks, including the failure or substandard performance of equipment, the improper installation or operation of equipment and natural disasters.
Mitigating actions We have health and safety policies and procedures in place at all our facilities and employ dedicated staff at all locations to ensure that these policies are understood, measured and embedded.
Our commitment to environmental performance runs throughout the Group.
We maintain environmental management systems at our production facilities, we employ specialist consultants when required, and we work closely with local environmental agencies to ensure we meet all requisite standards.
We ensure that product quality and safety are monitored at each stage of production, and we have thorough product quality policies and procedures in place.
These quality policies and procedures are carefully followed and rigorously enforced.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PV Crystalox Solar PLC 19
