24 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 25 Report of the Directors Business review Principal risks and uncertainties The Group Risk Committee is responsible for identifying, assessing and prioritising all material risks facing the Group and ensuring, where possible, that appropriate action is taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The table below highlights the major risks that may affect the Groups ability to deliver its strategy and the measures taken to address them.
Risks Description of risks Measures to reduce the risks Risks Description of risks Measures to reduce the risks Market risks Financial risks The Group has a diverse geographic portfolio, The Group requires its operating units to hedge The Group conducts a substantial proportion The international nature of the Groups Political and economic Foreign currency and however, in developing its corporate strategy their material transaction exposures on sales of its operations outside the UK in developing activities gives rise to both transactional stability treasury risk and in order to help mitigate the risk that could and purchases conducted in currencies other markets which have significant capacity exchange rate risk with the main exposure for profitable growth but which also arise in any one particular territory, the Board relating to US Dollar trade balances and than their functional currencies.
The Group have an increased risk of political and seeks to maintain an appropriate balance both translation exposure when the results, assets does not actively hedge its translation economic instability.
between developed and developing markets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are exposures as these are of an accounting rather and, within the developing world, between its translated into Sterling.
than a cash nature: however, the international operations in different territories.
In addition, spread of the Groups operations itself reduces the Group has extensive and long established dependence on individual currencies.
experience in all key markets and the Board continually monitors those markets to ensure The Group maintains a centralised treasury that any specific risks or opportunities may be function which operates on a non-speculative identified and addressed as they arise.
basis in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors and reviewed during the year by the Board and Extensive knowledge of the Groups selected Demand for the Groups products may Demand risks the Audit Committee.
The aim of this function markets is a core strategic pillar and the Group be adversely impacted by changes in is to mitigate the effects of any adverse consumer preferences.
actively monitors the needs and aspirations of movements in exchange rates and interest consumers on a regular and ongoing basis and rates on the Groups financial results.
is continuously developing new products to The increasingly competitive environment and continued growth of discounters could satisfy them.
The Group will continue to invest adversely impact the rate of sales growth in selected brands and selected markets in and profit margins.
order to drive profitable sales growth and the Board believes that competition is healthy as Operational risks it encourages and motivates the Groups operations across the world to do their best The Group recognises that in order to deliver The Board believes that there is in place an Staff retention and to serve the interests of consumers and sustained strong results it requires the right attractive employment proposition across the recruitment our brands.
calibre of people at all levels of the business.
In Group which will continue to attract capable particular, the Group must compete to recruit recruits and that key management and and retain capable individuals within the personnel are sufficiently well incentivised The Group takes measures to protect against In common with other companies within its Raw materials business including training them in the skills and challenged in order to retain them as far the short-term impact of these fluctuations sector, the Groups profitability is affected by and competencies which are required to as possible.
price and supply fluctuations in raw materials and shortfalls: however, failure to recover deliver profitable growth.
used in the manufacture of its products.
higher costs or shortfalls in availability could Key items, such as oils and fats, packaging have a negative impact on profits.
The Group materials and energy are subject to continually monitors the price and availability Should the Group fail to meet high product Product safety, social, environmental and Reputation risks fluctuations in price and availability.
of materials against forecast demand to safety, social, environmental and ethical ethical standards continue to be the ensure that there are adequate resources to standards in all operations and activities, there cornerstones on which our business is based continue in production throughout the world is the risk that its corporate reputation could be and during the year the Board has established and during the year the Group has further damaged, leading to the rejection of our the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee strengthened its raw material forecasting products by consumers, damage to brands and as a standing sub-committee of the Board with and procurement capabilities.
diversion of management time into rebuilding responsibility for the development of policies our reputation.
in respect of each of these focus areas.
Should any issues arise in these areas, the Group has processes in place to enable a quick response.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
