DirectorsReport Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risk and uncertainties RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION A change in demand from A significant shift in policy by either the new The Group is focused on a range of markets in defence, reduced military operations Administration in the United States of America or security and intelligence, providing a degree of Government in the United Kingdom which results in a portfolio diversification.
While certain areas of in Iraq and Afghanistan material reduction in the number of forces personnel the Groups operations, such as QNAs Technology present in Iraq and Afghanistan may have a materially Solutions Group, have experienced strong demand for adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
their TALON robots or LAST Armor for deployment in both Iraq and Afghanistan, other areas of Government spend have been held back, for example, such as services to improve the efficiency of Government processes.
The expectation is that any reduction in the level of spend in Iraq and Afghanistan may result in the resumption of such discretionary spend to which the Group could benefit from.
A change in either US or The forthcoming election in the UK and the change in The Group is focused on a range of markets in UK Government spending Administration in the US combined with the financial defence, security and intelligence, providing a degree burden on both UK and US Government budgets from of portfolio diversification.
Current UK and US defence on defence and security the recent economic downturn, may lead to reduced and security spending forecasts do not indicate spending in the markets in which the Group operates.
material budget reductions but the focus of the Any reduction in Government defence and security spending will change to meet emerging needs.
The spending in either the UK or the US, for example, in asymmetric nature of modern warfare and the threat the area of research in the UK, could adversely impact from terrorism have resulted in increased expenditure the Groups financial performance.
on many capabilities that QinetiQ offers and we believe that many of our markets eg security, intelligence and cyber security are growth markets.
The Group will continue to review trends in defence and security expenditure in order to align the business with those trends.
As an independent technology specialist, QinetiQ is well placed to benefit from any delay or cancellation of major procurement projects as this will often lead to the requirement for technology insertion and upgrades to an existing platforms operational lifespan.
Defence Training In 2007, Metrix, the Groups joint venture with Land QinetiQ maintains a close contact with Metrix, Rationalisation DTR Securities Trillium, was confirmed as the preferred Sodexo and the MOD in relation to the DTR, including Package 1 may not bidder for Package 1 of the proposed 30-year DTR with regard to the potential timing of obtaining a contract to outsource the training for UK armed financial close on the contract.
In addition, the MOD reach financial close forces.
The Group is responsible for the design and has signed some Pre-Contract Award Letters PCAL provision of training to Metrix.
In January 2009, which effectively underwrite a portion, but not all, Sodexo replaced Land Securities Trillium as the joint of the external costs incurred by the joint venture venture partner.
Metrix and the partners continue partners to date.
A funded early works contract to work with the MOD to finalise the scope of the may be let before financial close which will study programme as the next stage in moving to a financial the proposed technical design and delivery of the close.
There is a risk that the DTR programme may training programmes.
either suffer material change to the final scope, delay, inability to be financed or even cancellation.
This would have a significant impact on the expected future growth of the Group.
Additionally, if financial close were not reached, the bid costs incurred since preferred bidder status was achieved would have to be written off and expensed through the income statement.
Changing in the timing The amounts payable under some of the Government The contract and orders pipeline is regularly of contracts contracts can be significant and the timing of reviewed by senior operational management receiving orders could materially impact the and the Executive Committee.
Groups performance in a given reporting period.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Funding of a defined benefit The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme The performance of the pension scheme is reviewed pension scheme in the UK.
Presently there is a deficit between the regularly by Group management in conjunction with projected liability of the scheme and the value of the schemes independent trustees.
External actuarial the assets held by the scheme.
The size of the deficit and investment advice is also taken on a regular basis may be materially impacted by a number of factors to ensure that the scheme is managed in the best including inflation, investment returns, changes in interests of both the Company and the schemes interest rates and improvements in life expectancy.
In June 2008, the Group and the trustees, An increase in the deficit may require the Group acting on behalf of the scheme members agreed to increase the cash contributions to the scheme in principle to four key changes to the terms of which would reduce the Groups available cash the pension scheme aimed at reducing the cost for other purposes.
to the Group of maintaining the pension scheme: an increase in the normal retirement age: to cap the level of pensionable earnings: paying pension contributions via salary sacrifice: and removing the ability to purchase additional years.
The most recent funding valuation of the scheme as at 30 June 2008 has resulted in a deficit of 111.3m.
The Company and trustees have agreed a ten-year recovery period to make up this deficit.
Policies or attitudes The Group provides services to defence customers The Group takes proactive steps to manage any may change towards that meet their needs as part of the defence supply potential OCI and to maintain its ability to provide Organisational Conflicts chain and also as technical advisor through its independent advice through its consulting and of Interest OCI consultancy services.
The future growth of the systems engineering activities.
In the UK, a formal business could be compromised should the current compliance regime operates with the MOD to attitudes to policies adopted by our key customers, monitor and assess potential OCI as part of the especially in the UK, change.
Tax liabilities may change QinetiQ is liable to pay tax in the countries in which External advice and consultation is sought on as a result of changes in it operates, principally in the UK and the US.
Changes potential changes in tax legislation in both the tax legislation in the tax legislation in these countries could have an United Kingdom and United States of America.
adverse impact on the level of tax paid on the profits generated by the Group.
A material element of The Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA is a 25- The Group continues to achieve high customer year contract to provide a variety of evaluation and performance and satisfaction ratings, maintain the Groups revenue and operating profit is derived testing services to the MOD.
The original contract was excellent relationships with key customers and signed in 2003.
In the current year, the LTPA directly anticipates that the contract will run for the full from one contract contributed 11% of the Groups revenue and duration of its 25-year term through to 2028.
The first supported a further 7% through tasking services break point in the contract is 2013.
QinetiQ achieved using LTPA managed facilities.
These percentages are a weighted performance rating of 99% for the year expected to decrease proportionally over time as the ended 31 March 2009 against an agreed minimum Group grows in other areas.
The loss, cancellation or rating of 80%.
The LTPA operates under five-year termination of this contract would have a material, periods with specific programmes, targets and adverse impact on the Groups future reported performance measures set for each period.
3 March 2008, the Group signed up to a second period of the LTPA with the MOD.
Failure to comply with laws The majority of the Groups revenues are generated The Group has procedures in place to ensure and regulations, particularly from sales within the UK and the US.
The Group is that it meets all current export regulations.
Local trading restrictions and subject to numerous domestic and international laws management continuously monitor local laws and including import and export controls, financial and regulations.
Professional advice is sought when export controls fiscal laws, health and safety, money laundering etc.
engaging in new territories to ensure that the Failure to comply with particular regulations could Group is in compliance with local and international result in a combination of fines, penalties, and civil regulations and requirements.
In the US, the Group or criminal prosecution.
Any one of these could have undertakes work that is deemed to be of importance a material impact on the Groups financial to US national security, and arrangements are in performance.
place to insulate these activities from undue foreign influence as a result of foreign ownership.
The Group has procedures in place to ensure that these arrangements remain effective and to respond to any changes that might occur in US attitudes to foreign ownership of such activities.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 DirectorsReport Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Exchange rate movement The Group is exposed to volatility in exchange rates The Group actively hedges all significant transactional due to the international nature of its operations: this foreign exchange exposure as described on pages includes a translational impact on the key financial 90 to 94 of the notes to the financial statements.
statements as a result of the Group reporting its Acquisitions in North America have been funded by financial results in sterling.
The Group has limited US dollar denominated bank borrowings, partially transaction exposure as its revenues and related mitigating the risk as US dollar earnings are used to costs are often borne in the same currency, principally service and repay US dollar denominated facilities.
either US dollar or sterling.
QinetiQ North America represents 47% of the Groups consolidated revenues.
These operations are funded by US dollar denominated debt.
Any significant movement in the foreign exchange markets could have a material impact on the Groups reported financial performance in a given period.
Raising external funding and The Group is exposed to fluctuations in the credit The Group manages this risk by maintaining a markets which could impact both the availability and sufficient level of committed funding facilities, with a volatility in interest rates associated costs of financing.
A substantial expansion phased maturity profile from both commercial banks of the Groups operations could not be financed and private placement investors.
The Group also uses through debt financing if sufficient liquidity were fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swap not available in the external market on commercially derivatives to provide some certainty in the future acceptable terms.
cost of maintaining these facilities.
Fixed price contracts Some of the Groups revenue is derived from contracts The nature of much of the services provided under which have a fixed price.
There is a risk that the costs such fixed price arrangements is often for a defined required for delivery of a contract could be higher amount of effort or resource rather than firm product than those agreed in the contract.
Any significant deliverables and, as such, the risk of cost escalation in increase in costs which cannot be passed on to such contracts is substantially mitigated.
The Group a customer may either reduce the profitability of ensures that its fixed price bids and projects are a contract or even result in a contract becoming reviewed for early detection of issues which may loss-making.
Acquisition of businesses The Group is an active acquirer of other businesses The risks are mitigated through the due diligence and and companies.
These acquisitions may not internal approvals process.
Additionally, the usual perform in line with expectations thereby having contractual protections are included in the purchase a detrimental impact on the Groups financial agreements signed with the vendors.
Inherent risks from trading QinetiQ operates internationally.
The risks associated While the core activities of the Group are confined to in a global marketplace with having a large geographical footprint may the UK and the US, the Group continues to explore include: regulation and administration changes, potential client relationships across the globe.
These changes in taxation policy, political instability and new relationships are assessed for their inherent risks civil unrest.
Any such events could disrupt some of before being formally entered into.
the Groups operations and have a material impact on the Groups future financial performance.
Highly competitive The defence and security markets are highly QinetiQs domain knowledge, expertise, platform marketplace competitive.
The Groups financial performance may independence and capabilities within its selected be adversely affected should it not be able to compete markets provide a compelling proposition for in the markets in which it aims to operate.
customers, which is a significant advantage for the Group in competitive bidding.
Realisation of value from The funded research and development work that the The Group only invests in the development of intellectual property may be Group undertakes for defence and other customers intellectual property where it believes there is a creates intellectual property that the Group retains substantial and realistic market opportunity for the delayed and can utilise for commercial applications.
The technology and it undertakes a portfolio approach, uncertainty that exists over new technologies and recognising that not all investments will be successful.
markets may result in delays or failure to realise The performance of intellectual property realisation value from intellectual property or in a higher level programmes is actively monitored to increase support of investment required for the opportunity to be for successful prospects and reduce expenditure where realised.
The additional investment requirements realisation appears less likely.
The Group uses external may have to be funded from the Groups own capital experts and financial backers as partners in a variety resources which may have an adverse impact on the of structures to enhance the performance of certain Groups financial performance.
