1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Audit Committee report 6.
A review of the Groups policy on the use of external auditors The Group formally reviews its prioritised risk register.
In Current Members of the Audit Committee The key features of the Groups internal for work outside their audit role: addition, the Executive Board, through its regular meetings, controls are as follows: reviews key areas of risk on an ongoing basis and considers Paul Hampden Smith, Chairman 7.
A review of the effectiveness and structure of Internal Audit: whether the internal controls identified in relation to those risks A policy and procedures manual which covers all the Alan Jackson 8.
A review of Internal Audit programmes of work.
significant aspects of the Groups operations and Debbie Hewitt members receive an Executive summary of each internal describes the systems and controls that are to be applied: audit report: Internal Audit, Risk Management and Insurance The Board requires each Director in its operating During the year, the Group reviewed the effectiveness and 9.
Consideration of the Group risk assessment process and a subsidiaries to complete an annual statement on structure of its assurance processes and as a result of this going concern review: Corporate Governance and related party transactions.
The statement is designed to provide assurance that The Audit Committee comprised Bob Bennett as Chairman, 10.
A review of internal controls across the whole business: Group policies and procedures are being implemented and Denise Jagger and Malcolm King until 19 August 2009 when Internal audit work is outsourced to RSM Bentley Jennison, 11.
A review of the Groups Whistleblowing policy: and complied with in all material respects.
In addition, key they were replaced by Paul Hampden Smith as Chairman, Alan Chartered Accountants, who carry out a broad programme of functional directors complete a Principal Controls Self Jackson and Debbie Hewitt.
internal audit work using a risk based approach.
A review of Audit Committee effectiveness.
Assessment Questionnaire which is reviewed by the Board Jennison provide a designated Audit Manager to ensure a to assist in improvements in the control framework: The Audit Committees principal responsibilities lie in reviewing consistent quality of internal audit work whilst being able to use The Group has a widely publicised whistleblowing policy which the Groups financial reporting, overseeing the appointment and Defined authorisation levels exist over key areas such as staff having the appropriate level of experience and qualification enables employees and other stakeholders, e. g subcontractors, work of the external Auditors and reviewing Redrows internal land purchase, the placing of orders and contracts and for the particular audit programmes undertaken.
RSM Bentley to raise concerns in confidence with the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference of the Committee, staff recruitment: Jennison are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings and Audit Committee receives reports on all occasions when such which are in compliance with the Combined Code, are kept under have the facility to have direct access to the Chairman of the issues are raised under this policy.
A comprehensive prioritised risk register which is regularly regular review being last updated in April 2009 and are Audit Committee.
Day to day accountability is to the Group reviewed: published on the Groups website.
Audit Independence A monthly reporting pack is circulated in advance and  LLP PwC were appointed Auditors in All the members of the Committee are independent and the reviewed at each of the Main, Executive and subsidiary The overall programme of internal audit work is approved in 2003 having succeeded  who were Board believes the Committee has the appropriate level of board meetings.
Annual budgets are set and quarterly advance by the Audit Committee and is discussed with PwC.
The current audit partner was first appointed expertise to fulfil its terms of reference.
forecasts prepared, with actual performance compared allows time for both scheduled and unscheduled visits to in respect of the financial year ended June 2005 and will rotate against the annual budget and updated forecasts: companies within the Group.
Executive summaries of all internal off following the conclusion of the June 2009 audit, after five Both Chairmen Bob Bennett and Paul Hampden Smith are audit reports are distributed to the Board, whilst PwC receive years, in line with Listing Rules.
The Groups management information systems provide qualified accountants and have recent and relevant experience.
copies of the detailed reports.
Suggested control improvements weekly updates on key statistics and information in and any control weaknesses identified are followed up as The Committee held four meetings during the financial year The Audit Committee has a formal policy in respect of the work respect of sales and production and the content of these appropriate.
ended 30 June 2009 and holds further meetings as appropriate.
The purpose of this policy is to ensure weekly reports is regularly reviewed to ensure it remains The Group Finance Director was invited and attended each that the Auditors objectivity and independence is maintained by appropriate: Redrow has a fully embedded risk management process.
A risk meeting as did the external Auditors.
On each occasion the ensuring both that the nature of any non-audit work undertaken Daily statements of a reconciled cash position identifying register with risks appropriately ranked is maintained and is Committee had the opportunity to meet the external Auditors and the level of fees paid does not compromise the Auditors significant payments are prepared, 13 week rolling regularly reviewed and updated using a leading accredited without any Executive Director being present.
Appointments in respect of non-audit work require the cashflow forecasts are prepared and forecast banking external risk management software tool.
The risk register is prior approval of the Audit Committee within an established covenant compliance is regularly tested: and The Committee receives regular updates on changes to formally considered by the Board at least once per annum.
In addition, no work can be undertaken by the external accounting standards and best practice in financial reporting and Redrow has an in-house health and safety department and Auditors in any area where there is any identifiable risk that the corporate governance.
The Committee invites other individuals to places great emphasis on the importance of health and The Board has appointed an experienced broker to advise on work of an individual within the external audit firm or the external attend the meetings to provide technical support and advice as safety and environmental management.
The department and co-ordinate all insurance matters across the Group and they audit firm generally could conflict or compromise the quality, appropriate.
In addition, individual members are encouraged to works closely with the operating companies to ensure that liaise closely with appropriate Redrow personnel within the objectivity or independence of any audit or compliance work and have attended external seminars and courses on areas training is provided to employees and subcontractors, subsidiaries and report directly to the Group Finance Director.
relevant to their membership of the Committee e. g. Audit best practice is shared and appropriate actions are taken Committee Updates run by the Audit Committee Institute.
to comply with health and safety best practice and The main non-audit work undertaken on an ongoing basis relates legislation throughout the organisation.
Paul Hampden Smith to information provided to the Company by PwC in their capacity The Audit Committee addressed a wide variety of issues in its Chairman of the Audit Committee as Scheme Actuary of the Redrow Staff Pension Scheme.
The meetings, including: 9 September 2009 Company has a separate actuary to provide it with advice on pension matters.
Key business activities including finance, land acquisition, 1.
Reviews of the 2008 09 half-yearly and full year 2008 09 product design, procurement and information technology are results including the Annual Report & Accounts: The external Auditors are not indemnified by the Company nor controlled by the Executive Directors.
Reviews of the results of the 2007 08 external audit and has the Company purchased liability insurance for them.
within a defined structure with formal lines of responsibility, the results of the Half-yearly Review of the results for the six designated authority levels and a structured reporting months to December 2008, together with a review of the Internal Controls framework.
2008 09 external audit plan and associated fees: The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring its A formalised reporting structure is established within Redrow.
A review of the appropriateness of the Groups accounting effectiveness.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, The Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and functional policies: evaluating and managing significant risks.
However, in reviewing heads of department meet monthly to discuss the Groups key 4.
A review of the independence and objectivity of the external the effectiveness of internal control, such systems can only issues, risks and opportunities.
The operating companies hold Auditors: provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material monthly board meetings which are attended by the Regional misstatement or loss and can only manage rather than eliminate Chairmen, each of whom attend the Main Board meetings.
A review of the effectiveness of the external audit process: the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
40 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 41
