Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Principal risks The principal risks facing Reed Elsevier arise from Reed Elseviers businesses are increasingly dependent on electronic platforms and networks, primarily the internet, the highly competitive and rapidly changing nature for delivery of products and services.
Although plans and of our markets, the increasingly technological nature procedures are in place to reduce such risks, our businesses of our products and services, the international nature could be adversely affected if their electronic delivery of our operations, legislative, fiscal and regulatory platforms and networks experience a significant failure, developments, and economic conditions in our interruption, or security breach.
Certain businesses could also be affected Our products and services are largely comprised of by the impact on publicly funded and other customers intellectual property content delivered through a variety of changes in funding and by cyclical pressures on of media.
We rely on trademark, copyright, patent and advertising and promotional spending or through the other intellectual property laws to establish and protect our availability of alternative free sources of information.
proprietary rights in these products and services.
However, there is a risk that our proprietary rights could be challenged, Reed Elsevier has established risk management practices limited, invalidated or circumvented.
that are embedded into the operations of the businesses based on the framework in internal control issued by the Committee A number of our businesses rely extensively upon content of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission and data from external sources to maintain our databases.
COSO, and are reviewed by the Audit Committees and Boards.
Data is obtained from public records, governmental Important specific risks that have been identified and are being authorities, customers and other information companies, addressed include: including competitors.
The disruption or loss of data sources in the future, because of changes in the law or because data Demand for our products and services may be impacted suppliers decide not to supply them, could adversely affect by factors beyond our control such as the economic our business if we were unable to arrange for substitute environment in the United States and other major economies.
sources in a timely manner or at all.
Macroeconomic, political and market conditions may adversely affect the availability of short and long term The scientific, technical and medical STM primary funding, volatility of interest rates, currency exchange publications of Elsevier, like those of most of our competitors, rates and inflation.
are published on a paid subscription basis.
There has been debate in the government, academic and library communities, Reed Elseviers businesses are dependent on the continued which are the principal customers for our STM publications, acceptance by our customers of our products and services regarding whether such publications should be funded instead and the value placed on them.
We cannot predict whether through fees charged to authors and from governmental there will be changes in the future which will affect the and other subsidies or made freely available after a period acceptability of our products, services and prices to following publication.
If these methods of STM publishing our customers.
are widely adopted or mandated, it could adversely affect our revenue from paid subscription publications.
Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets.
These markets continue to change in response to New organisational and operational structures are being technological innovations, changing legislation, regulatory developed with increased focus on outsourcing and changes, the entrance of new competitors and other factors.
The failure of third parties to whom We cannot predict with certainty the changes that may occur we have outsourced activities could adversely affect our and the effect of those changes on the competitiveness of business performance, reputation and financial condition.
We continue to invest significant resources to further adapt to the changing market and competitive We operate a number of pension schemes around the world, environment.
There is no assurance that this investment the largest schemes being of the defined benefit type in the will produce satisfactory long term returns.
UK, the US and the Netherlands.
The assets and obligations associated with defined benefit pension schemes are particularly sensitive to changes in the market values of assets and the market related assumptions used to value scheme liabilities.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 47 Principal risks continued Our businesses operate in over 200 locations worldwide We recognise that Reed Elsevier and its businesses have and our earnings are subject to taxation in many differing a direct impact on the environment, principally through the use jurisdictions and at differing rates.
We seek to organise of energy and water and waste generation and in our supply our affairs in a tax efficient manner, taking account of the chain through paper use and print and production technologies.
jurisdictions in which we operate.
However, tax laws that We are committed to reducing these impacts, whenever apply to Reed Elsevier businesses may be amended by the possible, by limiting resource use and by efficiently employing relevant authorities.
Such amendments, or their application sustainable materials and technologies.
We require our suppliers to Reed Elsevier businesses, could adversely affect our and contractors to meet the same objectives.
We seek to ensure reported results.
that Reed Elseviers businesses are compliant with all relevant environmental legislation and, accordingly, whilst environmental We often acquire and dispose of businesses to reshape and issues are important, we do not consider that they constitute strengthen our portfolio and engage in restructuring activities.
a significant risk for Reed Elsevier.
If we are unable to generate the anticipated benefits such as revenue growth, synergies and or cost savings associated In addition to the risks described above, further information on with these acquisitions and restructuring activities this could risks and how they are addressed is provided elsewhere in the adversely affect our reputation and financial condition.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements: If the ratings of our long term debt are downgraded in the Business and Financial Review contains a description of the future, our borrowing costs and access to capital may the business and a discussion of factors affecting performance.
A rating is based upon information furnished by us or obtained by the relevant rating agency the Corporate Responsibility report contains discussion from its own sources and is subject to revision, suspension or relating to people, the environment and customers.
withdrawal by the rating agency at any time.
Rating agencies may review the assigned ratings due to developments that note 6 to the combined financial statements contains further are beyond our control.
information on risks associated with defined benefit pension schemes.
The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements are expressed in pounds sterling and are, therefore, subject to movements in the Chief Financial Officers report contains a discussion exchange rates on the translation of the financial information of of treasury, liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and businesses whose operational currencies are other than sterling.
The United States is our most important market and, accordingly, significant fluctuations in the US dollar exchange rate could the report on Structure and Corporate Governance contains significantly affect our reported results.
a discussion on risk management and internal control, including in relation to financial reporting.
48 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009
