Business Review Key Group risk factors Top 10 customers account for 62% of Rexam sales 2009 Risk management is part of our focus on operational Carlsberg Coca-Cola excellence, a key strategic priority for the Group.
GSK Rexam faces a wide range of risks, the main ones Heineken being market, operational, environmental, social, Hornell 62% InBev governance as well as financial.
This section LOreal identifies the main risk factors that may affect the Pepsi Procter & Gamble execution and implementation of Rexams strategy.
Red Bull In 2009, the Group risk register was reviewed by the executive team, the Audit Committee and the Board.
Given the continuation of the volatility of the global economy, the Board will monitor the register every month for the foreseeable future.
Our customer base is concentrated.
In Beverage Set out below is a summary of the key risks for the Group as a whole.
Cans, the top ten customers account for 80% of It does not provide an exhaustive analysis of all risks affecting the Group.
Not all of the factors listed are within the control of the Group and other sales and for Plastic Packaging it is 33%.
Of the factors besides those listed may affect the performance of its businesses.
remaining customers, none accounts for more Some risks may be unknown at present and other risks, currently regarded as immaterial, could turn out to be material in the future.
The global financial and economic crisis has heightened many Group risks and exposed new ones.
However, the challenge remains the same in terms of identifying those risks that are most relevant and developing appropriate methods to avoid or mitigate them.
The following table provides brief descriptions of the key types of risk to which the Groups operations are exposed and identifies, in each case, their potential impact on the Group and the principal processes in place to manage and mitigate the risk.
Further information on the process by which risk is managed and reported is covered under Internal control and risk management in the Corporate Governance report.
Type of risk and potential impact Key mitigation actions taken to manage these risks Dependency on key customers Many of our largest customers have traded with us for many years, Our customer base is concentrated see chart above.
Loss of sales during which we have built up a strong interdependency and sense volumes from key customers would adversely impact our business.
These relationships increase the likelihood of retaining customers, provided that we continue to deliver value for money.
Customer contracts This risk is monitored very closely by management at all levels The risk that significant major contracts may not be renewed with to ensure that relationships with key customers are strong in many customers, or that they may not be negotiated on terms favourable areas relating to quality of products supplied, innovation of to secure appropriate margins terms of business, will have a major products, speed of delivery and price competitiveness along with impact on the Groups underlying profitability and overall ensuring that contracts are negotiated to ensure that terms are performance.
favourable to all parties concerned.
The key mitigation here is to ensure that key customer relationships are managed effectively.
Changes in packaging legislation and regulatory environment Through established and effective membership of relevant trade Packaging will continue to be a focus for government legislators associations and by direct collaboration with governmental and working within the sustainability agenda.
Changes in packaging non governmental organisations, and through its own offices, legislation and regulation affecting producer responsibility for Rexam continually monitors changes or proposed changes in laws recycling, recycled content, carbon foot print and land fill taxation or regulations that may adversely affect our business if arbitrarily are an increasing risk.
This ensures the best possible chance of shaping an outcome favourable to Rexam and its stakeholders.
Financial risk Rexams financial risk management is based upon sound economic Our main financial risks are related to the cost and availability of objectives and good corporate practice.
Derivative and other funds to meet our business needs, movements in interest rates and financial instruments are used to manage exposures under foreign currency exchange rates, as well as commodity prices.
conditions identified by the Board and monitored by its Finance Committee.
Further details of our financial risks and the way in which we mitigate them are set out in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
22 Rexam Annual Report 2009 Type of risk and potential impact Key mitigation actions taken to manage these risks Tax risk We seek to plan and manage our tax affairs efficiently in the In an increasingly complex international tax environment, jurisdictions in which we operate.
Tax planning will complement some uncertainty is inevitable in estimating our tax liabilities.
and be based around the needs of our operating businesses.
We exercise our judgement in assessing the required level of provision for tax risk and allocate resources appropriately to protect our position.
Business interruption Rexam has established protocols and procedures across the Group Every business faces the potential risk of its operations being as a whole such that plans are in place to ensure business continuity impacted by disruption due to loss of supply, industrial relations, in our operations.
Strong relationships with customers and suppliers failures with technology, physical damage as a result of fire, flood mean that, where possible, there are arrangements in place to ensure or other such event.
alternative sources of supply or production for critical product lines.
Competition We aim to build long term relationships with our customers with the Rexam operates in competitive markets.
Aggressive pricing from aim of becoming an integral part of their supply chain and helping competitors may cause a reduction in our sales and margins.
We also ensure that we are the supplier of choice by focusing on innovation for our customers and maintaining the highest standard of operational excellence to achieve lowest cost manufacturer status.
Pension deficit Rexams retirement benefit risk management is overseen by the Key operational risks are related to cash contributions, charges Retirement Benefits Committee RBC.
The RBC reviews all suggested to the profit and loss account, and balance sheet volatility.
new promises for and improvements to retirement benefits.
Managing deficit volatility on the balance sheet and general fide-risking of funded plans which include equity, interest rate and inflation risk is undertaken by pension plan fiduciaries in consultation with the RBC.
Cash contributions are negotiated with plan fiduciaries in line with good practice and regulatory requirements in the countries in which the respective plans operate.
Supply of faulty or contaminated products As part of our Environment, Health and Safety policy and our Lean Rexams reputation as a business partner relies heavily on its ability Enterprise framework we have strict control measures and systems to supply quality products on time and in full.
The consequences of in place to ensure that the safety and quality of our products are maintained.
not being able to do so could be severe.
Such consequences might include adverse effects on consumer health, loss of market share, financial costs and loss of turnover.
In Beverage Cans, almost all of our metal needs are on a pass through Changes in the cost and availability of direct materials Aluminium is our most significant raw material cost.
In the Americas beverage can businesses, we also important to us and we purchase quantities of steel for our charge the majority of our customers on a pass through basis whilst European beverage can operation.
Steep and prolonged rises in Europe 70% of our supply needs are on this basis.
To mitigate the in input prices may have a material impact on our results.
One risk on the remaining aluminium exposure, we hedge the aluminium consequence of a substantial rise could be a change in demand cost and associated currency requirements.
We purchase aluminium for our products as customers adjust their packaging mix and and steel from a small number of regional and global suppliers with the materials they use.
whom we have long term relationships and contracts.
We are able to dual source our metal in the event of a major supply disruption.
In Plastic Packaging, some 80% of the resin costs are on a pass through basis which includes resin escalator fide-escalator provisions that allow change in our selling price as resin prices change.
We reduce our exposure to future resin price rises through hedging where we do not have pass through contracts.
We pursue a dual qualification of suppliers for all major new projects.
Additionally, since late 2008, Rexam has an active programme to qualify alternate supply sources for existing applications.
As a result, we are 30% dual qualified globally.
75% of our resin supply is covered by a security of supply agreement.
Whilst it is difficult to fully plan for this change, we monitor market Changes in consumer lifestyle, nutritional preferences and health related concerns and consumer trends as well as political developments through our A substantial part of our sales is generated by packaging for own and external business intelligence services and through our products such as carbonated soft drinks and alcoholic beverages.
involvement in national and international packaging associations Any far reaching consumer shift away from these product types in the countries and regions where we operate.
as a result of lifestyle, nutrition and health considerations, or even legislation, could have a significant impact on our business.
National political and economic stability Emerging market risks are assessed in detail by management when Rexam operates in countries and regions with diverse economic considering investment opportunities and setting financial policies and political conditions and sensitivities.
Our expansion in and procedures.
We also take external advice on such matters.
emerging markets means that this exposure is increasing.
In 2009, we commissioned a detailed review by  of certain tax and treasury risks in Russia.
We will continue to carry out reviews of key risk areas both internally and with external expert support.
