Overview Principal risks and uncertainties The following describes some of the The slowdown of Chinas economy in 2009 fi finance or even the viability of an operation.
material risks that could affect Rio Tinto.
contributed to a contraction in demand for Such events could lead to disputes with There may be additional risks unknown aluminium and lower aluminium prices.
If national or local governments or with local to Rio Tinto and other risks, currently Chinese customers demand for the Groups communities and give rise to reputational believed to be immaterial, which could products fails to continue to recover or damage.
If the Groups operations are delayed turn out to be material.
These risks, Chinese customers source such products from or shut down as a result of political and whether they materialise individually elsewhere, the Groups business, fi financial community instability, its revenue growth or simultaneously, could signifi cantly condition and prospects could be affected.
may be constrained and the long term value affect the Groups business and fi financial of its business could be adversely impacted.
It also outlines the exposure to risk Rio Tinto is exposed to fluctuations in without explaining the detail of how each is The Groups land and resource exchange rates that could have an adverse managed and mitigated, or how some risks tenure could be disputed resulting impact on its overall business results.
could result in either a positive upside or in disruption to the operation or The Group uses US dollars to denominate negative downside impact.
They should development of a resource.
most of its sales, hold surplus cash, fi finance also be considered in connection with The Group operates in several countries its operations, and present its external and any forward looking statements in this where title to land and rights in respect of internal results.
Although many costs are document and the cautionary statement land and resources including indigenous incurred in US dollars, signifi cant costs on the inside front cover.
title may be unclear and may lead to are infl uenced by the local currencies of disputes over resource development.
Such the countries where the Group operates, External disputes could disrupt or delay relevant principally the Australian dollar, Canadian mining projects, impede the Groups ability dollar and Euro.
The Groups normal policy Commodity prices and global demand to develop new mining properties, and may is to avoid hedging arrangements relating for the Groups products are expected have an adverse effect on the Groups results to changes in foreign exchange rates.
to remain uncertain, which could have of operations or its prospects.
Appreciation in the value of these currencies a positive or negative impact on the against the US dollar or prolonged periods of Changes in the cost and or Groups business.
exchange rate volatility may adversely affect interruptions in the supply of energy, Commodity prices and demand for the the Groups business results.
water, fuel or other key inputs could Groups products are cyclical and strongly adversely affect the economic viability infl uenced by world economic growth.
This Political, legal and commercial of the Groups operations.
is particularly so for our key customers, instability or community disputes in The Groups operations are resource intensive especially in the US and Asia notably China.
the countries and territories in which and, as a result, its costs and net earnings may There is potential volatility in short to the Group operates could affect the be adversely affected by the availability or medium term commodity prices as various viability of its operations.
cost of energy, water, fuel or other key inputs.
national stimulus packages are reduced.
The Group has operations in jurisdictions If the prices of key inputs rise signifi cantly Muted consumer spending may result with varying degrees of political, legal and more than expected, or if the Group from concerns over unemployment.
Commercial instability experiences interruptions in, or constraints Groups normal policy is to sell its products can be infl uenced by bribery and corruption at prevailing market prices and not to enter on, its supply of key inputs, the Groups into price hedging arrangements.
The in their various guises.
Administrative costs could increase and its results could be recent improvement in commodity prices change, policy reform, and changes in law adversely affected.
and demand for the Groups products may or governmental regulations can result Strategic not remain as strong, which would have an in civil unrest, increased regulation and impact on Group revenues, earnings, cash potentially expropriation, or nationalisation.
Failure of the Group to make or fl ows, asset values and growth.
Renegotiation or nullifi cation of existing successfully integrate acquisitions agreements, leases and permits, changes could have an adverse effect on the Continued growth in demand for the in fi scal policies including increased tax or business and results of operations.
royalty rates or currency restrictions as well as Groups products in China could be Business combinations entail a number signifi cantly increased costs or impediments affected by future developments in of risks including the effective integration to operation are all possible consequences.
of acquisitions including the realisation Such instability could have an adverse effect of synergies, signifi cant one time The Groups iron ore is sold to Chinese on the profi tability, the ability to fi finance or, in write-offs or restructuring charges, and customers predominantly at fi xed prices extreme cases, the viability of an operation.
All of rather than at spot rates.
The 2009 these may be exacerbated by the diversion benchmark prices were never offi cially Some of the Groups current and potential of managements attention away from other agreed.
Failure to agree on prices remains a operations are located in or near ongoing business concerns.
The Group may source of tension between China and all the communities that may regard the operation also be liable for the past acts, omissions major iron ore suppliers.
as being detrimental to their environmental, or liabilities of companies or businesses or economic or social circumstances.
properties it has acquired, which may be Community reaction could have an adverse impact on the cost, profi tability, ability to unforeseen or greater than anticipated.
16 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Overview Performance and reserves Governance statements information and suitable joint venture partners to share rather tests it annually for impairment: such The Groups business and growth the cost of developing large projects.
There impairments cannot be reversed.
prospects may be negatively is no assurance, therefore, that the Groups affected by reductions in its capital The Group will continue to test goodwill investment in exploration and project expenditure programme.
and may, in the future, record additional development will be recouped, or that impairment charges.
This could result in the The Group requires substantial capital to depleted ore reserves will be replaced.
recognition of impairment provisions which invest in greenfi eld and brownfi eld projects, are non cash items that could be signifi cant The Groups proposed iron ore and to extend the life and capacity of its and could have an adverse effect on the production joint venture with BHP existing operations.
Reductions in capital Groups reported results.
Billiton in Western Australia may expenditure including sustaining capital have resulted in the cancellation, slowing or not yield the synergies anticipated, The Groups net earnings are sensitive deferral of projects until market conditions or may fail to be completed as to the assumptions used for valuing and commodity prices recover, and suffi cient currently envisaged.
defi ned benefi t pension plans and cash is available for investment.
If signifi cant post retirement healthcare plans.
Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton have proposed variations in commodity prices or demand for a production joint venture covering the our products occurs, the Group may reduce Certain of the Groups businesses sponsor entirety of both companies Western its capital expenditure further, which may defi ned benefi t pension plans.
The pension Australian iron ore assets.
The binding negatively impact the timing of its growth expense reported for these plans is sensitive agreements on the proposed joint venture and future prospects.
to the assumptions used to value the pension were signed on 5 December 2009, and cover obligations, and also to the underlying With the volatility of the commodity all aspects of how the joint venture would economic conditions that infl uence the markets, the Groups ability to take operate and be governed.
Changing economic conditions, advantage of improvements may be US$10 billion net present value of the particularly poor pension investment returns, constrained by earlier capital expenditure synergies may not be realised or may take may require the Group to make substantial restrictions and the long term value of its longer to realise than expected.
The proposed cash contributions to its pension plans.
business could be adversely impacted.
production joint venture requires regulatory Actual investment returns achieved approvals in a number of jurisdictions which The Groups exploration and compared to the amounts assumed within may not be secured.
Regulators may require development of new projects might be the Groups reported pension expense are the Group to relinquish ownership or control reported in the table below amounts for prior unsuccessful, expenditures may not over certain assets prior to approving the years have been adjusted to exclude defi ned be fully recovered and depleted ore production joint venture.
Any or all of these contribution assets as explained in note 50 to could reduce the value anticipated from reserves may not be replaced.
forming the production joint venture or The Group develops new mining properties result in a failure to implement the venture As at 31 December 2009, the Group had and expands its existing operations as a as currently envisaged.
estimated pension liabilities on an IAS19 means of generating shareholder value.
The accounting basis of US$16.2 billion and Group seeks to identify new orebodies and assets of US$12.4 billion.
After excluding those Financial mining properties through its exploration pension arrangements deliberately operated programme and has also undertaken the The Groups reported results could be as unfunded arrangements, representing development or expansion of other major adversely affected by the impairment liabilities of US$1.1 billion, the global funding operations.
There is a high degree of of assets and goodwill.
level for pension liabilities on an IAS19 basis competition for opportunities to develop was approximately 82 per cent.
If the funding such orebodies.
Certain competitors, An asset impairment charge may result level materially deteriorates further, cash such as state run interests, have access to from the occurrence of unexpected adverse contributions from the Group may be needed, signifi cant resources and may be motivated events that impact the Groups expected subject to local requirements.
by political or other non economic factors.
In accordance with IFRS, The Group may be unable to fi nd willing the Group does not amortise goodwill but Pension plan investment returns US$ millions 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Expected return on plan assets 581 857 438 261 249 Actual return on plan assets 1,472 2,451 309 517 365 Difference between the expected and actual return on plan assets 891 3,308 129 256 116 loss gain US$ million Difference as a percentage of plan assets 7% 36% 1% 5% 3% www.
com 17 Overview Principal risks and uncertainties continued and future joint ventures necessarily involve The Groups mining operations Operational special risks.
Whether or not the Group holds are vulnerable to natural disasters, Estimates of ore reserves are based on majority interests or maintains operational operating diffi culties and infrastructure control in its joint ventures, its partners may: many assumptions and changes in the constraints, not all of which are covered assumptions could lead to reported ore have economic or business interests or by insurance, which could have an reserves being restated.
goals that are inconsistent with, or opposed impact on its productivity.
to, those of the Group: There are numerous uncertainties inherent in Mining operations are vulnerable to natural estimating ore reserves including subjective events, including earthquakes, drought, exercise veto rights to block actions that judgements and determinations based on fl oods, fi re, storms and the possible effects of the Group believes are in its or the joint available geological, technical, contract and climate change.
Operating diffi culties such as ventures best interests: economic information.
Assumptions that are unexpected geological variations that could take action contrary to the Groups valid at the time of estimation may change result in signifi cant failure, could affect the costs policies or objectives with respect to its signifi cantly when new information becomes and viability of operations for indeterminate investments: or available.
Changes in the forecast prices of periods, including smelting and refi ning.
commodities, exchange rates, production be unable or unwilling to fulfi l their The Group requires reliable roads, rail costs or recovery rates may result in the obligations under the joint venture or other networks, ports, power sources and power reserves ceasing to be economically viable.
agreements, such as contributing capital to transmission facilities, water supplies and IT Ultimately this may result in the reserves expansion or maintenance projects.
systems to access and conduct its operations.
Such changes in The availability and cost of infrastructure Where projects and operations are controlled reserves could also affect depreciation affects capital and operating costs, and the and managed by the Groups partners, the and amortisation rates, asset carrying maintenance of planned levels of production Group may provide expertise and advice values, deferred stripping calculations and and sales.
In particular, the Group transports but it has limited control with respect to provisions for close down, restoration and a large proportion of its products by sea.
compliance with its standards and objectives.
Limitations, or interruptions in, rail or shipping Improper management or ineffective policies, capacity at any port, including as a result of procedures or controls could adversely affect Labour disputes could lead to lost third parties gaining access to the Groups the value of related non managed projects integrated infrastructure, could impede the production and or increased costs.
and operations and, by association, damage Groups ability to deliver its products on time.
Some of the Groups employees, including This could have an adverse effect on the the Groups reputation thereby harming the employees in non managed operations, are Groups business and results of operations.
Groups other operations and access to represented by labour unions under various new assets.
The Group uses an extensive information collective labour agreements.
The Group technology system and infrastructure.
may not be able satisfactorily to renegotiate The Group may be exposed to major A signifi cant failure of major parts of the agreements when they expire and may face failures in the supply chain for system or malicious actions could result in tougher negotiations or higher wage demands.
signifi cant interruption that could affect the In addition, existing labour agreements may Groups reputation and operating results.
Rio Tinto operates within a complex not prevent a strike or work stoppage, which supply chain depending on suppliers of The Groups insurance does not cover every could have an adverse effect on the Groups raw materials, services, equipment and potential risk associated with its operations.
earnings and fi financial condition.
infrastructure to ensure its mines and process Adequate coverage at reasonable rates is plants can operate, and on providers of not always obtainable.
In addition, the Some of the Groups technologies are logistics to ensure products are delivered.
Groups insurance may not fully cover unproven and failures could adversely its liability or the consequences of any Failure of signifi cant components of this impact costs and or productivity.
business interruptions such as equipment supply chain due to strategic factors such as The Group has invested in and implemented failure or labour dispute.
The occurrence business failure or serious operational factors, information systems and operational of a signifi cant event not fully covered by could have an adverse effect on the Groups initiatives including new technologies.
Some insurance could have an adverse effect on business and results of operations.
aspects of these technologies are unproven the Groups business, results of operations, and the eventual operational outcome or fi financial condition and prospects.
viability cannot be assessed with certainty.
The costs, productivity, value in securing Joint ventures and other strategic business opportunities and other benefi ts partnerships may not be successful from these initiatives, and the consequent and non managed projects and effects on the Groups future earnings and operations may not comply with fi financial results may vary from expectations.
the Groups standards, which may If the Groups technology systems fail to adversely affect its reputation and the realise the anticipated benefi ts, there is no value of such projects and operations.
assurance that this will not result in increased costs, interruptions to supply continuity, The Group participates in several joint failure of the Group to realise its production venture arrangements and it may enter into or growth plans or some other adverse effect further joint ventures.
Although the Group on operational performance.
has sought to protect its interests, existing 18 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Overview Performance and reserves Governance statements information operation and updated annually but the Sustainable development provisions might prove to be inadequate due Increased regulation of greenhouse gas to changes in legislation, standards and the emergence of new restoration techniques.
emissions could adversely affect the Furthermore the expected timing of Groups cost of operations.
expenditure could change signifi cantly Rio Tintos operations are energy intensive due to changes in commodity prices that and depend heavily on fossil fuels.
There might curtail the life of an operation.
is increasing regulation of greenhouse Total provisions at 31 December 2009 gas emissions, progressive introduction amounted to US$6,916 million 2008 of carbon emissions trading mechanisms restated: US$6,011 million as set out and tighter emission reduction targets, in in note 27 to the fi financial statements.
numerous jurisdictions in which the Group These provisions could prove insuffi cient operates.
These are likely to raise energy and compared to the actual cost of restoration, production costs to a material degree over the or the cost of remediating or compensating for damage beyond the site boundary.
Regulation of greenhouse gas underestimated or unidentifi ed close down, emissions in the jurisdictions of the Groups restoration and environmental rehabilitation major customers and suppliers as well as in costs could have an adverse effect on the relation to international shipping could also Groups reputation as well as its asset values, have an adverse effect on the demand for the earnings and cash fl ows.
Health, safety, environment and The Group depends on the continued other regulations, standards and services of key personnel.
expectations evolve over time and The Groups ability to maintain its unforeseen changes could have an competitive position and to implement adverse effect on the Groups earnings its business strategy is dependent on the and cash fl ows.
services of key engineering, managerial, fi financial, commercial, marketing and Rio Tinto operates in an industry that is processing people.
Loss or diminution in subject to numerous health, safety and the services of key employees, particularly environmental laws, regulations and as a result of an inability to attract and standards as well as community and retain staff, or the Group not maintaining stakeholder expectations.
The Group a competitive remuneration structure, is subject to extensive governmental regulations in all jurisdictions in which it could have an adverse effect on the Groups operates.
Operations are subject to general business, fi financial condition, results of and specifi c regulations governing mining operations and prospects.
and processing, land tenure and use, Competition for experienced people environmental requirements including with international engineering, mining, site specifi c environmental licences, permits metallurgy and geological expertise is high, and statutory authorisations, workplace due to a small pool of individuals against health and safety, social impacts, trade and medium to high demand.
This may affect the export, corporations, competition, access Groups ability to retain its existing senior to infrastructure, foreign investment and management, marketing and technical taxation.
Some operations are conducted personnel and to attract qualifi ed personnel under specifi c agreements with respective on appropriate terms.
Similar competition governments and associated acts of may be felt by the Groups key contractors parliament but unilateral variations could and equipment suppliers that, in turn, could diminish or even remove such rights.
Evolving affect the Groups expansion plans.
regulatory standards and expectations can result in increased litigation and or increased The Groups costs of close down, costs, all of which can have an adverse effect on earnings and cash fl ows.
restoration, and rehabilitation could be higher than expected due to unforeseen changes in legislation, standards and techniques, or underestimated costs.
Close down and restoration costs include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure and the remediation of land disturbed during the life of mining and operations.
Estimated costs are provided for over the life of each www.
