74 Corporate governance Internal control and risk management The business assurance function, working closely with external auditors, Internal control and risk management undertakes a programme of financial and operational audits or reviews agreed by the audit committee and covering all Group activities.
The The Board system of internal control and its effectiveness programme includes independent reviews of the systems of internal The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and control, selected on the basis of risks material to the Group.
The findings for maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness from both a financial and and status of corrective actions taken to address these are reported to an operational perspective.
The system of internal control is designed to the audit committee.
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against The risk committee implementation of the Boards policies material misstatement or loss.
The Groups approach to internal control is The risk committee has accountability for the system of risk based on the underlying principle of line managements accountability management and for reporting the principal risks and associated for control.
mitigating actions, including those risks potentially affecting the Groups reputation.
It has responsibility for implementing the Boards policies on The Board has reviewed the risk management process and confirms that risk and internal control and reviews the results of the risk management ongoing processes and systems ensure that Rolls-Royce continues to be process, which operates at all levels in the Group.
The risk committee has compliant with the Turnbull guidance as contained in Internal Control: developed a risk policy which states that risk management is a part of Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
every managers responsibility and that risk management is to be embedded within the day-to-day management activity.
The committee In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, the reports annually to the Board on the policy, process and operation of the Board has taken account of the results of the work carried out to audit risk management system and the principal risks facing the Group, and review the activities of the Group.
identified through the risk management system.
Financial reporting Specific committees have accountability for reviewing certain categories The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual of risk.
The financial risk committee reviews credit, market or liquidity budget approved by the Board.
Revised forecasts for the year are risks.
The ethics committee reviews those risks with a significant ethical reported at least quarterly.
Actual results, at both a business and Group dimension, often identified as threats to reputation.
level, are reported monthly against budget and variances reviewed.
Financial managers are required to acknowledge in writing that their Risk management process how risks are managed throughout routine financial reporting is based on reliable data and that their results the Group are properly stated in accordance with Group requirements.
In addition, Risks are defined as threats to the achievement of business objectives or for annual reporting, business presidents and finance directors are to the continuing reputation of the Group.
As part of the business cycle required to acknowledge that their business has complied with the each part of the Group is required formally to identify and document key Group Finance Manual.
risks together with appropriate mitigating activities.
The audit committee reviewing internal controls The risk management process The audit committee keeps under review the Groups internal controls and systems for assessing and mitigating financial and non-financial risk.
In addition, the committee reviews the Groups procedures for detecting, Assessment monitoring and managing the risk of fraud.
The committee reviews and approves the business assurance work programmes and ensures that this function is adequately resourced and Risk Planning Identification Treatment coordinated with the work of the external auditors.
Twice a year, the register committee receives a report on the reviews conducted throughout the Group by business assurance and a report from senior executives on the key risks and risk systems in selected customer facing businesses and Review, control key functions.
and communicate Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
