24 Business review Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties Business environment risks The Group continues to be exposed to a Cyclical downturn global recession number of risks and has an established, The Groups largest market, civil aerospace, is cyclical by nature, although services activity and revenue, which now represents structured approach to identifying, assessing 59 per cent of annual revenue, have historically been less volatile and managing these.
in economic slowdowns and are considered more predictable and robust than the sales of engines for new aircraft.
The willingness of passengers to travel by air is influenced by a range of factors, including economic conditions, as well as health and security issues.
Any prolonged reduction in air travel would impact airlines revenues and cash flows and potentially reduce their need for new engines, spare parts or aftermarket support services.
The strategy of growing revenues in other sectors with steady and The risk committee has accountability for the system of risk substantial long-term growth, will help offset this risk.
Access to global management and reports regularly to the Board on the key risks facing markets with greater diversification by sector, customer and geography the business and the mitigating actions taken in order to manage them.
and an improved balance between original equipment and services The Groups consistent strategy and long-term programmes require that revenue, are expected to help mitigate the effects of the slowing global key sources of risk are identified and are kept under continuous review.
economy in any one sector.
Risk profile Tight control of the underlying cost base, the cost of managing Over the past year the risk profile of the Group, in common with many operations and the unit cost of products, is essential to protect other large companies, has changed to reflect the underlying global margins and maintain profitability.
Even as the economy begins economic uncertainties.
The Group continues to experience the to recover, there will be continued pressure to reduce costs and negative effects of the recent economic downturn through a decline improve the use of resources.
The Group is focusing on identifying in the civil aviation sector, shipbuilding and other capital-intensive the principal drivers of unit costs and identifying actions to achieve industries, which are prime markets for its products and services.
In the absence of a sustained and general return to growth, uncertainty Environmental impact of products and operations remains across financial and industrial markets.
This is reflected in the The Group recognises that its products and business operations have Groups risk profile.
an impact on the environment, particularly in relation to climate change.
Rolls-Royce is determined to be part of the solution to these The risks described below are among those that may have an impact environmental challenges and continues to make significant investment on the Groups performance.
This is notwithstanding other risks and in innovative solutions for the aviation, marine and energy markets.
uncertainties that are currently unknown to the Group, or which the The challenge is being addressed through the enhancement of Group does not presently consider to be material.
The principal risks current product ranges and affordable research and development reflect the global nature of the business and the competitive and into low carbon technologies such as nuclear power, fuel cells and challenging business environment in which it operates.
The Group continues to work closely with its customers, those to the Groups reputation, are considered under four broad industry partners and other stakeholders to implement these headings: development opportunities.
Business environment risks Strategic risks A robust governance structure headed by the Environment Council Financial risks directs and monitors improvements in the environmental performance Operational risks of the Groups products, and the Environmental Advisory Board reviews and makes recommendations on the environmental aspects of the Groups products and business operations.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued 25 Strategic risks Financial risks Competitive pressures Principal risks are: The markets in which Rolls-Royce operates are highly competitive and movements in foreign currency exchange rates: this competitiveness is increasing as a result of the global economic interest rates: uncertainties.
The majority of product programmes are long term in commodity prices: nature and access to key customer platforms is critical to the success of counterparty credit risk: and the business.
This requires sustained investment in technology, capability regulatory developments.
and infrastructure by the Group, all creating high barriers to entry.
However, these factors alone do not protect the Group from competition A description of these risks and details of the Groups risk mitigation such as pricing and technical advances made by competitors.
actions in this area are provided in the Finance Directors review.
The Group has developed a balanced business portfolio and continues Operational risks to maintain a steady focus on improvement in operational performance, Performance of supply chain for example through the modernisation of its facilities and an increased The Groups products and services are delivered through the effective focus on managing the costs of operations and products.
Sustained operation of its facilities and key capabilities, including its supply investment in technology acquisition and robust protection of chain.
The Groups success in strengthening its market position and intellectual property, together with the establishment of long-term its presence on a number of high profile civil and defence aerospace customer relationships, allow the Group to differentiate its products and programmes places increased demands on the performance of the services and protect margins in the face of competitive pressures.
The Group manufactures approximately 30 per cent by value of its gas turbine products, the remainder being provided Export controls through external suppliers, including risk and revenue sharing partners.
Rolls-Royce designs and supplies a number of products and services for Meeting delivery commitments on schedule, cost and quality are the defence market.
Many countries in which the Group conducts its critical to the achievement of business goals.
Investment in developing business have legislation controlling the export of specified goods and world-class manufacturing processes is continuing in Asia, North technology intended or adaptable for military application.
The Group is America and Europe.
committed to complying with the requirements of national governments in all jurisdictions when exporting goods, parts, Global supply chains are complex with multiple inter-relationships across technologies or information, although globalisation of the Groups a wide network of organisations.
While the Groups strategy is to improve operations brings with it complexities of concurrent but differing integration and simplify the internal and external elements of its supply national export control legislation.
Non-compliance with export controls chain by building long-term strategic links with fewer, stronger suppliers, is recognised as a principal risk to both programme performance and it remains at risk of disruption from financial or physical causes such as the Groups reputation.
bankruptcy, natural disaster, armed conflict or pandemic.
A significant disruption in any of these elements could adversely affect the Groups The exports committee, chaired by the Chief Operating Officer, directs ability to deliver its operational commitments and would have the the Groups strategy and policy on exports.
Export control managers are potential to affect financial returns.
embedded throughout the business and export controls awareness training is provided to employees.
The Group will continue to implement The planning for, and management of, any such interruption is any necessary changes to ensure that it maintains the capability to addressed through the Groups business continuity management monitor and comply with requirements.
process, which is well established and focused on critical facilities, activities, processes, skills and suppliers.
The Groups crisis management plan and framework were significantly revised and exercised in 2009.
In addition to the Groups comprehensive programme of business interruption insurance, significant investment is being undertaken to establish, where possible, dual sourcing of key components or processes.
Increased focus is also being applied to understanding and addressing sources of risk arising in the external supply chain, particularly those associated with financial instability.
Procedures are in place to monitor, assess and respond to such risks.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 26 Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued IT security The continuing globalisation of the business and advances in technology have resulted in more data being transmitted internationally, posing an increased security risk.
There is also the possibility of unintentional loss of controlled data by authorised users.
In either case, adverse impacts upon operational effectiveness, the value of intellectual property, legislative compliance or the reputation of the Group might arise.
The active sharing of information through industry and government forums, commitment of additional specialist resources and the continual upgrading of security equipment and software mitigate these risks.
Ethics The Group recognises the benefit that is derived from conducting business in an ethical and socially responsible manner.
This approach extends from the sourcing of raw materials and components to the manufacture and delivery of products and services in all of its global locations and markets.
It applies to the provision of a safe and healthy place of work and investment in technologies to reduce the environmental impact of the Groups products and operations.
Shortcomings in any of these areas could damage the Groups reputation, expose it to financial penalties and disrupt its business.
The Group is committed to maintaining high ethical standards.
A Global Code of Business Ethics, available in 16 languages, has been issued to all employees supported by a training and engagement programme to improve awareness of the Groups values.
A programme of technical training for specialist roles is underway.
The Groups ethical standards are also communicated to the Groups first-tier supply base through a supplier code of conduct.
Concerns regarding potentially unethical behaviours can be reported in confidence via dedicated global telephone and internet channels.
All such reports are followed up and are monitored by the ethics committee.
Programme risk The Group manages complex product programmes with demanding technical requirements against stringent, and sometimes fluctuating, customer schedules.
This requires co-ordination of the engineering function, manufacturing operations, the external supply chain and other partners.
Failure to achieve programme goals would have significant financial and reputational implications for the Group.
These implications include the risk of impairment of the carrying value of the Groups intangible assets and the impact of potential litigation.
Impairment is discussed further in the Finance Directors review on page 58.
The Group seeks continuous improvement of all its processes and employs project management controls to ensure that both technical and business objectives are achieved.
All major programmes are subject to Board approval and are reviewed regularly by the Board with a particular focus on the nature and potential impact of emerging risks and the effective mitigation of previously identified threats.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
