Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties The assessment and management of These processes of risk management within re-evaluated in relation to the Group overall.
risk is the responsibility of the Board, the businesses involve: Each risk once identified is allocated to one and the development and execution of a Identification and regular assessment of of the Directors of the divisional businesses comprehensive and robust system of risk individual risks as appropriate to ensure the correct level of management has a high priority in Rotork.
Reviewing previously identified risks and visibility and attention, and update sessions This is based on an established enterprise the effectiveness of mitigation where to review progress in dealing with issues at wide process for the identification and appropriate an operational level are conducted during management of risk first at divisional Design of controls the year.
business level and then in terms of the Testing the controls through management Group as a whole, working within the review, and ultimately internal operational We identify three main risk areas: governance framework set out in our audits Strategic risks that potentially could Corporate Governance Statement, see page Forming a conclusion on the affect the strategic aims of the business, 32.
The Boards role in risk management effectiveness of the control environment or those issues that could affect the involves promoting a culture that in place strategic objectives that the Group is emphasises integrity at all levels of business addressing operations.
This includes ensuring that risk The major risks affecting the Group Operational risks arising out of the management is embedded within the core are identified by senior management in operational activities of the Group processes of the Group, determining the association with the full Board of Directors relating to areas such as logistics, principle risks, and ensuring that these and the external Auditor is invited into the procurement, product development and are communicated effectively across the process in a support role.
This is an ongoing interaction with commercial partners.
businesses and setting the overall policies process involving regular risk assessment, Financial issues that could affect the for risk management and control.
The Group with clear and consistent procedures for finances of the business both externally Finance Director is specifically tasked with monitoring updating and implementing from matters initially outside of our risk management for the Group, and chairs appropriate controls to manage the control, and from the perspective of a committee made up of functional heads identified risks.
We are therefore confident internal controls and processes at divisional director level to manage this that we have a methodology for ensuring process, each of whom has access to all that the Groups approach to dealing with The top 12 risks identified in the risk officers across the Group tasked with risk individual risks is robust and timely.
management process are listed in the table management.
The Board approves appetite opposite.
These are categorised by the for risk at both Group and Divisional level Identified risks are categorised by three main risk areas identified above and and the consequential actions in terms of likely impact on the business and likely listed in order of severity as identified in the mitigation where possible and appropriate.
probability, and once the assessment risk assessment process.
Mitigation, where matrix is complete the top risks are then possible, is shown by each identified risk area.
22 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business Review Type of risk Description Mitigation Strategic Existing competitor moving to lower Direct presence in terms of production, sales & service support.
Constant drive to maintain differentiation from competition.
Strategic Appropriate products, both in terms of Taking cost out and differentiate Rotork product from competitors.
Development of products to address lower specification lower price markets.
Strategic Risk of copy Rotork actuators and Legal enforcement of intellectual property rights wherever possible.
Take cost out and differentiate our product from copies.
Investigate copies to learn their shortcomings.
Strategic Lower investment in Rotorks Existing product offering into new markets and new products for all traditional market sectors.
Strategic Failure to manage acquisitions Careful consideration of management team following acquisition and effectively.
monitoring of existing management if they remain post completion.
Identify cultural, communication and resource needs.
Operational Quality and applications failures Quality control procedures including supplier visit and checks.
Product in hazardous areas or causing an design and development supported by life performance tests.
Operational Major in field product failure - existing Good quality control procedures including supplier audit and scorecard products.
Operational Political instability in a key market.
True mitigation difficult but as the spread of business increases so the overall risk to the Group diminishes.
Operational Exposing employees to danger Following advice from Foreign consulate and International SOS ISOS through working in parts of the world helps reduce risk.
ISOS provides support in the event of an employee where conflict and unrest occur.
being in a place as trouble starts.
Operational Failure of a key supplier or tooling Dual sourcing wherever possible and product engineering.
Financial Volatility of exchange rates.
Short term movements are addressed using forward exchange contracts but this does not mitigate against long term trends.
These can only be covered through a geographical spread of operations, component sourcing and customers.
Financial Failure to secure cost reductions Investigate new suppliers and utilise new suppliers in competitive bids limiting profit growth and growth in with existing suppliers.
Maximise purchasing leverage by combining existing and new markets.
divisional requirements and offering increased volumes of business to leverage lower price.
ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 23
