Risk Management 24 With our unique energy and environmental experience we can offer broad support in developing carbon capture and storage CCS projects.
Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review Risk Management RPS Group Risk Analysis here are failure of IT systems and the has to approve all acquisitions before 25 recruitment and retention of key staff.
any binding commitment is made.
For RPS supplies a wide range of services acquisitions with an enterprise value in to many sectors of the economy in a n Financial and Commercial - the excess of 20 million, full Group significant number of countries.
This gives risk of performance falling short of Board approval is required prior to any rise to a range of potential risks that need expectations including the reputational binding commitment being made.
In the to be individually recognised, assessed and risk linked to quality of work.
Due to the robust current economic climate the n Legal and Compliance - the risk of structure of the business, the management full Group Board is being kept informed failing to comply with all relevant of these risks is not separated from the about all potential acquisitions.
legislation and regulations and liabilities business, but is treated as an integral part The Executives have developed arising from trading activities which are of the way we operate.
A key role of the comprehensive methods to evaluate not covered by professional indemnity Executive Directors is to assess the risks potential acquisitions, including the legal insurance.
to which the Group may be exposed, to framework within which businesses are report material risks to the Board and to n Health, Safety and Environment - the acquired and methods of integration.
recommend measures for their mitigation.
risk related to the safety of staff, Despite the economic downturn seen clients, sub-contractors, members of The Group has a well-established and in 2009 the goodwill impairment review the public and the environment.
embedded system of internal control carried out at the year end concluded and risk management that is designed that no impairment was necessary.
Business Strategy to safeguard shareholders investment, The business in Ireland was that most The Groups strategy seeks to ensure as well as the Groups personnel, assets affected by the downturn and is potentially continuous improvement in the range and and reputation.
Whilst the Group Board susceptible to goodwill impairment see has overall responsibility for the Groups quality of our services and our financial note 10 on page 86. system of internal control and for performance by: reviewing its effectiveness, it is the role n operating in markets where we can Business Continuity of management to implement policies add value to our clients activities: Failure to recruit and retain qualified and relating to risk and control.
talented staff can disrupt the Groups n endeavouring to achieve leadership in The principal risks identified by the Group ability to win new contracts and or those markets: and can be described under the following execute contracts effectively.
n making acquisitions of quality categories: Each of the Groups businesses has, as businesses in order to extend our n Business Strategy - the risk of not a management priority, the successful expertise and geographical presence.
delivering the Groups long-term implementation of a recruitment and strategy.
Principal risks of the Group Successful implementation of the strategy retention strategy that is appropriate to include loss of competitive position requires the Board to identify appropriate the markets in which they operate.
At and strategic risks in relation to markets and how to operate in them Group level advice is provided to the specific activities.
Each year the Board sets itself businesses about recruitment techniques, a series of specific objectives and priorities.
remuneration strategies and people n Business Continuity - the risk that in Progress against these is measured on a the event of an adverse occurrence management.
In addition share schemes regular basis.
the business operations will not be are put in place to assist staff motivation able to operate.
Main areas of risk The Executive Committee reviews and and retention.
com Risk Management RPS Technology Services RPSTS manages which incorporates checks and reviews, 26 all the Groups IT systems although some financial modelling, accountability and detailed functions are carried out locally on transparency at every level.
Each year RPSTS produces a plan for Operational staff have no access to the the improvement of the Groups systems.
The Board approves that plan and allocates Invoices from suppliers are approved by the appropriate budget.
The plan includes the Operational Directors and are sent measures designed to ensure the reliability to the finance function for processing and resilience of the Groups systems.
Remittances from clients The fact that the Group has operations in are received by the finance function.
a large number of locations increases its Segregation of duties within the finance ability to withstand events which cut power team itself and between the offices and communications, cause equipment and the accounting function ensures Phosphogypsum Stack Complex - Houston malfunction or result from theft.
accountability and sound financial practice at every level.
Financial and Commercial Business unit and office financial results Management are reviewed monthly by relevant boards The financial management of the Group and directors.
is undertaken within the framework of This detailed review, together with the the operating structure that is described checking and reconciliation work done on page 19.
The operating companies by the accounting team, ensures the high and divisions as well as the business degree of scrutiny required to minimise units within them are treated as separate the possibility of mistakes, irregularity or entities for the purposes of budgeting fraud remaining undetected.
The Groups Executive Committee, which Each business unit prepares a Business Heyco Energy Group, acreage evaluation comprises the Groups Executive Directors Plan which defines the activities and and the Company Secretary, meets at scope of business to be conducted.
The least once a month and discusses newly budgets quantify the expectations for the emerging risks as they occur.
The minutes Group and comprise a key element of of these meetings are provided to the the Business Plans.
The Plans including Non-Executive Directors.
budgets are agreed with the Group Board.
The businesses in the UK are The RPS Board monitors the Groups supported by centrally run accountancy financial performance on a monthly basis and personnel functions.
Our overseas using detailed budgets as the benchmark.
businesses have their own accounting and Future performance is estimated by personnel functions.
RPS has a detailed reference to forward order books, financial reporting management system, although the nature of most contracts Waha Land Masterplan industrial park outside Abu Dhabi Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review means that such forecasting cannot be The internal audit function is undertaken 27 completely accurate and the degree of by the Group financial accounting team as part of its other functions.
Given the current imprecision cannot be statistically tested.
structure of the Group, the Board and the The Groups financial instruments comprise Audit Committee consider that a separate cash, bank loans and items such as internal audit function is not at present receivables and payables that arise directly required.
The Board recognises that control from its operations.
The main purpose of risks increase during the integration of newly these instruments is to provide finance for acquired businesses and during this period the Groups operations.
monitors closely the status of the systems The Group reports its results in sterling and commercial integration.
but has operations in Australia, Ireland, RPS is a multi-disciplinary Group USA, Canada, Malaysia and Singapore operating across international boundaries that have functional currencies other than with a broad base of clients and skilled sterling.
As a result the Groups balance professional employees.
Correspondingly sheet, income statement and statement of and consistent with its size and complexity, comprehensive income can be affected by the Group has a large number of movement in the exchange rate between contractual relationships.
In the Directors sterling and the functional currencies of view, there is no single contract which is the overseas operations.
The Group does essential to the Groups business.
not hedge such translation exposures.
Compliance, Litigation Where operations have part of their trade and Insurance in currencies other than their functional currency they endeavour where possible It is essential that RPS complies with to match the currency of revenues and prevailing legislation and with the terms cost of sales.
The Group uses foreign of its contracts with clients, staff and exchange contracts and loans to manage Internal space and facilities planning - Deloitte suppliers.
In order to ensure this the transactional risks for commercial but not Group has in place a series of quality accounting purposes.
It has been and remains the Groups policy In certain parts of its business RPS that no trading in financial instruments shall maintains and implements documented be conducted.
Quality Management Systems which satisfy, as a minimum, the requirements of ISO The Group has strong review procedures 9001:2000 through the: for monitoring and controlling cash flows and the requirements for debt.
This n documenting of procedures to control includes the production of regular cash flow the quality of services: projections and the reporting and review of daily cash collections against targets.
We act for parts of the air travel industry in the emissions debate rpsgroup.
com Risk Management n maintaining records to control and n monitoring the quality management Health and Safety 28 show compliance with quality and system in operation at each office at The health and safety performance of the client requirements: regular intervals in order to ensure its Group is fundamental to RPS operations continuing and improving effectiveness.
Safeguarding the employees n recording the implementation of well-being is of paramount importance corrective measures necessary to Formal certification to ISO 9001:2000 with the responsibility resting with the ensure the quality of service provided: standard is a required procedure for some Board.
This responsibility is shared with aspects of RPS business: therefore a n taking appropriate preventative the local management boards within the number of RPS offices in the UK, Ireland measures to improve quality organisation and is passed down to each and the Netherlands are certified to ISO and minimise the possibility of manager and employee.
Offices in North America and unsatisfactory service: and Australia have quality systems that are The Board sets the policy and objectives based on formal procedures that have for health and safety management.
been developed in line with ISO 9001 The Company Secretary oversees guidelines.
implementation of the health and safety management within the Group.
An analysis Those RPS offices providing environmental of accidents and incidents is presented and monitoring and analytical services hold discussed at every Board meeting.
external accreditations from additional quality assurance schemes.
Quality The Board requires that each business accreditations held by individual RPS provides and maintains safe working offices include those externally audited conditions, suitable equipment and by UKAS, Aquacheck, RICE, UK NEQAS resources to implement safe systems of and the UK Health and Safety Executives work to protect employees, contractors, WASP scheme.
visitors and other people who could be affected by the Groups activities.
In Ireland our offices are quality accredited through the NSAI National Standards Compliance with legislation in all the Western Newfoundland exploration program Authority of Ireland and SGS and for countries where activities are carried out Safety Management through the NISO is a mandatory requirement although National Irish Safety Organisation.
wherever possible the Group aims to surpass minimum standards and develop However, even when these systems work best-practice within the industry.
well issues can arise which may give rise to litigation in which RPS needs to Each business in the Group has appointed participate.
There are procedures in place health and safety professionals to for managing such litigation.
The Group implement appropriate management also has extensive insurance cover in place systems.
OHSAS 18001 is an to ensure against such losses and potential internationally recognised standard for losses.
A range of policies are in place, the health and safety management that is principal of which relate to professional aligned with the ISO 9000 Quality indemnity, employers, public and third Management and ISO 14000 party liability.
RPS provides consultancy in relation to the prevention and control of Major Accident Hazards Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review Environmental Management standards.
In 2009, the reportable accident rate Accident incident rates 29 29.3% of employees across the Group was 4.6 accidents per 1,000 employees Group work in offices that now have third party 2008: 3.8.
This increase followed a accreditation to the OHSAS 18001 substantial reduction in 2008, the reportable standard 2008: 25.1%.
accident rate in 2007 having been 6.3 2009 2008 accidents per 1,000 employees.
The Group Reportable 19 17 All activities that are undertaken are continues to develop its health and safety injuries assessed for hazards with appropriate management systems in order to establish Reportable 4.6 3.8 controls put in place to ensure the risk an improving trend in its performance.
injuries incident is reduced to a satisfactory level.
Where Typically the accidents that occurred rate per 1,000 necessary safe systems of work are employees are related to manual handling activities, documented.
There are systems in place however, slips and falls also account for a throughout the organisation to audit significant proportion of the accidents.
RPS offers clients a range of health and All employees are trained to ensure that safety consultancy services including they have the appropriate skills to carry process safety, asbestos management, fire out their job safely.
Senior management safety, occupational health and hygiene, are trained to ensure that they can safety auditing and safety engineering.
discharge their responsibilities to their staff.
RPS employees include highly qualified Each Group business has a system for specialists who work on safety critical reporting and investigating accidents, systems in the defence, nuclear, offshore, dangerous occurrences and near misses.
petrochemical, transport, construction and All incidents are investigated to determine manufacturing industries.
Any significant incidents are reported throughout the organisation and brought to the attention of the Board.
Carbon Sequestration Analysis Western Canada We have developed assessment techniques for many forms of renewable energy rpsgroup.
