The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 18 Principal risks and uncertainties Risks can materialise and impact Risk management responsibilities and processes: on both the achievement of business objectives and the successful running of Sages business.
A key Executive Committee Group Board element in achieving business Day-to-day responsibility for Advise and challenge on objectives and maintaining services risk management risk management strategy to customers is the management and implementation of risks.
Sages risk management strategy is therefore to support the successful running of the business by identifying and managing risks to an acceptable level, and delivering assurances on this.
Risk Committee Audit Committee Review and monitor risks Review of risk management throughout the Group and policy and of risks throughout Operational processes: monitor implementation the Group Group compliance framework of risk management policy Detailed risk management policies Code of ethics Whistle-blowing policy Organisation and culture Delegated authorities Group and local risk committees Local, decentralised business processes Sage is a worldwide company facing a number of wide ranging international factors Risk description Potential impact Mitigation As an international company, we face potential Any failure to maintain compliance with relevant In current economic conditions, our defensive challenges from economic, political, legal, laws or changes in regulation or any failure business model and the significant percentage accounting and business factors across the to adapt to market changes or local business of our revenue which is recurring give comfort globe.
In the current economic environment, conditions could have a material, adverse impact and support against economic exposure.
We have operations on our business.
Specific impacts would include We continually review all relevant local geography in many international markets, which leads deterioration in financial results, financial penalties requirements to ensure appropriate policies to various risks inherent in administering the and damage to our reputation.
Our Group-wide complexities of a global business.
A variety compliance programme seeks to ensure of international regulatory requirements, that local operating companies continually including Payment Card Industry compliance manage and review local rules and regulations.
and unexpected changes to economic Our detailed quarterly forecasting process and market conditions are specific risks helps to ensure robust and realistic challenge associated with managing our business.
Sage faces significant competitive risk Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The market for business management If we are unable to compete in the market in which Through the provision of customer support and solutions is highly competitive.
we operate, our financial results would deteriorate our strong brand, we continue to engender loyal This competition continues to grow, through loss of our customer base.
Our strategy to develop our particularly in the SME market where product and service offering to meet local customer barriers to entry are relatively low, needs further improves customer loyalty.
attracting more companies to enter the market.
Many companies with which we compete, or which may enter into competition with us, have greater financial, marketing and technical resources than we do.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 Sage is heavily dependent on information systems and networks Risk description Potential impact Mitigation We rely significantly on systems and Any external malicious attack on the systems We continue to invest in our internal systems and networks in order to run our business and networks could lead to misappropriation networks and build and develop relevant recovery operations on a day-to-day basis.
of or damage to our products and services.
We also continue to review our security, Our reliance on systems and networks Critical information used in our business systems and network infrastructure to ensure includes internally managed and externally operations, such as customer orders, customer that, these risks are kept to an acceptable level.
support and accounts receivable and payable, Any externally provided systems and networks could be disabled.
are subject to intensive contract negotiations and performance ability reviews to ensure that an appropriate level of service will be continually maintained.
Sage must ensure it is able to react to ongoing technology changes Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Technology in the software industry Changing technology places demands on Through our substantial dialogue with customers is constantly changing.
In order to be employees, particularly R&D teams, to stay we are well placed to develop and expand our successful within the software sector, up-to-date with technology changes and product and service offering to meet customer Sage must be able to adapt to changing customer demands.
An inability to adapt to needs.
We also develop appropriate strategic technologies.
This ability to adapt is changing technologies would adversely affect direction and maintain knowledge of industry vital in maintaining current products, our competitive position.
developments to ensure a proactive response attracting new customers and retaining to changing customer requirements.
Sage must ensure its intellectual property is appropriately secure Risk description Potential impact Mitigation We rely on intellectual property laws, Illegal or unauthorised copies of our software While relying, as other companies do, on the including laws on copyright, patents, could be sold without our knowledge, impacting laws and regulations in existence, we continually trade secrets and trademarks to protect financial results and Sages reputation.
police the unauthorised use of our products.
Despite laws and regulations We also ensure secure storage of our source being in place, unauthorised copies of code throughout the Group.
The internet increases and provides new methods for illegal copying of the technology used in our products and services.
Sage must ensure it manages its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates Risk description Potential impact Mitigation A substantial proportion of Sages revenue The accounting profits of the Group and the book The Group has US Dollar, Euro and Swiss Franc and profit is earned outside the UK.
value of assets and liabilities are subject to the denominated borrowings which act as a natural hedge of the net investment in its subsidiaries in Subsidiaries generally only trade in their own fluctuation in foreign currency rates.
The conversion the US, France, Spain, Germany and Switzerland.
currency, therefore Sage is not subject to of foreign currency denominated surplus cash The interest on this debt also acts as a partial significant foreign exchange transactional balances into Sterling are also subject to the hedge against the translation exposure of exposure.
Sages principal exposure to effects of foreign currency fluctuations.
the Groups overseas profits into Sterling.
foreign currency therefore lies in the When surplus cash is generated in overseas translation of overseas profits into Sterling, subsidiaries this is used to repay debt interest the fluctuation in the value of foreign and principal in the same currency, therefore currency denominated assets and liabilities effecting a further natural hedge.
Due to this in the balance sheet and any conversion of extensive natural hedging, the Group does not foreign currency surplus cash into Sterling.
currently hold any derivative financial instruments to hedge foreign exchange exposure.
