Risk management The identification of, and mitigation for, risks are of critical importance to the Group as it continues to grow and broaden its operations across Asia in a challenging economic environment.
The Groups Executive Directors continually monitor the Groups risk exposures and formally SALAMANDER report to the Audit Committee on a six monthly basis, with more frequent updates on particular risks or ENERGY situations as required.
The Audit Committee provides oversight whilst ultimate authority remains with the Board of Directors.
The table below summarises the Groups key risks, as currently identified, and the related mitigating actions.
Strategic risks Groups strategy execution fails to create shareholder value Identification and mitigation of risk A comprehensive risk register is maintained that covers strategic, operational, financial and other risks together with the specific mitigating factors.
Board, Audit Committee and senior management are regularly updated on the Group risk register and profile.
Incorrect portfolio mix Diverse base of oil and gas assets with a mixture of fiscal regimes.
Capital allocation Consistent 80 20 capital allocation 80% capital into discovered reserves and resources: 20% into exploration Annual budgeting process approved by Board.
Board reviews allocation of capital against stated 80 20 guidance.
Organic and acquisition led growth Board level discussion and approval of growth strategy and any acquisitions.
Regional macroeconomic issues Regular monitoring of regional economic, political, oil, gas, power market information.
Specific market analysis by reputed third party experts where required.
Operational risks Operational events that impact on operational delivery, corporate reputation, revenues HSE Group HSE policy reinforced at all levels of operations.
Group compliance with World Banks Equator Principles.
Clear incident reporting and investigation procedures.
HSE staff professionals active in each country of operations.
Drilling operations Robust internal debate and challenge at all levels of exploration process, consistent approach to technical and commercial risking of drilling activities.
Oil liquids spill at operated asset Clearly established protocol for dealing with spill or other operational emergencies.
Local community issues Robust public consultation on the ground in operational areas.
Corporate Social Responsibility Detailed CSR policy and programmes implemented across operations.
CSR initiatives lead at the country level and overseen by CSR Committee and Executive Team.
Rig and services availability Planning process in place that allows sufficient time for procurement.
Insurable risks The Group maintains insurances to reduce the potential impact of the physical risk associated with its oil and gas activities.
The Groups insurance programme is in line with standard industry practice and includes insurances against drilling activities, operators extra expense, construction all risk, certain business interruptions and general liability.
Asset performance The Groups portfolio is increasingly diversified, reducing exposure to any individual production, development, exploration or appraisal asset.
21 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009 Risk management continued Financial risks Underperforming assets, financial constraints lead to financial stress for the Group Liquidity risk The Group manages its liquidity risk ensuring sufficient capital is available to meet near and medium term funding requirements via a formal budgeting and forecasting process.
Budgets, forecasts and related committed and discretionary capital requirements are monitored to ensure compliance with the corporate funding plan.
Oil price PSC effects and certain fixed price gas contracts in Groups production base partially hedge oil price volatility.
Defensive hedging strategy implemented as appropriate to minimise downside risk to Group cash flows, business plan and debt related coverage ratios and agreed by the Board.
2010 hedging programme implemented as described previously in Financial Review, 2011 hedging programme under review at present.
Capital and operating costs Constant monitoring of Groups capital investment programme and appropriate sourcing of contractors and services.
Regular review of Group operating and overhead costs.
Foreign exchange exposure The Group accounts and reports in US Dollars and makes efforts to preserve funds in US Dollars.
The Group may enter into foreign exchange hedges where the Group has a known and determined exposure.
Credit and counterparty risk Credit and counterparty risk to the Group take two forms: the risk that a counterparty, including financial institutions, cannot continue to provide a service or product to the Group or to settle outstanding amounts due, and the risk that a counterparty cannot continue to fund its contributions to a jointly owned asset or to fund its contractual product purchases.
The Group invests surplus cash with banks of strong, stable investment grade.
It monitors closely the funding position of both JV partners and key contractors, maintains close dialogue with those thought to be high risk, takes mitigating action and prepares contingencies where possible.
Interest rate risk The Group periodically reviews its interest rate exposure and has hedged approximately 50% of its LIBOR rate exposure.
Debt levels and capital structure The Group has adopted a conservative leveraging of its balance sheet, constantly monitoring the amount and structure of its debt and ongoing compliance with debt related covenants.
Other risks Market, industry or political risks that may impact on Group operations or cash flows Fiscal regime The Group seeks to foster and maintain strong links with host country governments, regulators, national oil companies and other domestic industry partners.
Investor sentiment The Board maintains a regular dialogue with the Groups shareholder base to communicate strategy and understand investor preferences.
Corporate governance issues The Group upholds a code of governance and control policies, covering all areas of its activities including business ethics, financial governance and control, procurement, HSE and CSR.
Regular legal appraisal of compliance with Combined Code and other regulatory guidelines.
Additional detail on certain financial risks are set-out in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
22 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009
