Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:21 Page 54 54 Principal risks and Serco has a well-established and embedded system uncertainties of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, designed to safeguard shareholders investments and our assets and reputation.
We have developed robust systems and Our approach to risk within the The Board has overall processes to identify and manage the Serco Management System responsibility for our key risks facing each of our businesses The Serco Management System SMS and the Group as a whole, and all parts internal control system sets out policy standards, systems and of the business have appropriate risk processes that identify, review and and for reviewing its and crisis management plans that meet report risks at all levels of our business our policy standards.
effectiveness, and has and in the Group as a whole, with the During the year we completed a aim of safeguarding our shareholders delegated to comprehensive review, with the support investments, our stakeholders management the of KPMG LLP our internal auditors, of interests, and our assets and implementation of the adequacy of our risk management reputation.
The review confirmed the policies on risk and We regularly review the risk management maturity and effectiveness of current risk processes we apply throughout our control.
management processes, and also put business as part of the SMS.
This forward a number of recommendations ensures they reflect the nature of the around enhanced oversight, risk activities we undertake and the business identification and assessment, and and operational risks inherent in them, reporting and monitoring.
We are and therefore the level of control we implementing these recommendations to consider necessary to protect our ensure that risk management remains interests and those of our stakeholders.
current, adds value to the management of the business and is integral to our These controls and processes fall into internal audit approach.
four main areas: identification: assessment: planning and control: and Risk management is fundamental to how monitoring, so that we: we manage our business.
Our risk management policies, systems and identify business objectives that processes are therefore defined and reflect our stakeholders interests, embedded within the Serco Management and the risks associated with System, as described below.
The Board achieving these objectives: regularly reviews these, which conform regularly assess our exposure to risk, to the Combined Codes requirements.
including measuring key risk indicators: Such policies, systems and processes, however, can only be designed to control and reduce risk as far as mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of reasonably practicable or achievable, failure to achieve business objectives, through cost-effective risk mitigation: and can only provide reasonable, and and not absolute assurance, against identify new risks as they arise and misstatement or loss.
The Board remove risks that are no longer confirms that these have been in place relevant.
for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Review and Accounts.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:21 Page 55 Our performance 55 Risk identification Risk planning and control In identifying the potential risks We assign each identified and assessed associated with achieving our business risk to a risk owner, who is responsible objectives, we consider both external for controlling and managing it and factors arising from the environment we developing a robust and effective plan to operate in, and internal risks arising from reduce or mitigate the risk.
Risk owners the nature of our business, its controls are required to report to the Board on and processes, and our management specific risks.
The Board may ask for decisions.
additional information or request an audit to provide additional assurance.
Once identified, we document risks in risk registers, which we maintain at a Risk reduction involves taking early contract, business unit, programme, management action to remove or reduce divisional and Group level.
These risk identified risks before they can affect the registers change as new risks emerge contract or project.
We consider options and existing risks diminish, so that the to eliminate, reduce or control the risks registers reflect the current key risks.
We as part of the risk identification and review risk registers at least quarterly analysis process.
and more frequently as required, and the Risk mitigation involves us identifying Board reviews the Group risk register at appropriate measures, including each Board meeting.
contingency plans, to reduce the severity of the risks impact, should they occur.
Risk assessment This includes developing crisis We assess the potential effect of each management plans in response to risks identified risk on the achievement of our whose potential impact warrants a business objectives and wider specific management process.
To do so, we use a The SMS requires every contract to risk scoring system based on our develop a risk management plan assessment of the probability of a risk reflecting assessed risks and supported materialising, and the effect if it does.
We by appropriate measures and assess this from three perspectives: contingency plans to mitigate the impact the risks significance to the of the risks.
achievement of our business objectives: Risk monitoring the risks significance to society, Changes in our external environment, including on public safety and the internal structures, and management environment: and decisions may all affect the nature and our ability to influence, control and extent of the risks to which the Group is mitigate the risk.
Analysis of our key risks allows us to Our risk monitoring process therefore assess the probability of disruption to our regularly monitors changes to our business objectives, and highlights critical business and the external environment, areas that require management attention.
to ensure that we respond appropriately to reduce the impact of emerging risks.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:21 Page 56 56 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Key Internal risks We keep reputational and emerging risks Principal risks under review and inform the Board of Major accident or incident involving The Group risk register identifies the changes.
Emerging risks cover longerfailure of duty of care or compliance principal risks facing the business, term risks that could represent a threat with regulation, deaths or serious including those that we manage at a to our activities but which are not yet injuries to public or staff, or Group level.
The process identifies the sufficiently defined to be included as substantial damage to the environment business objectives and the interests of active risks.
Examples of these risks shareholders and other stakeholders Failure to manage our people include climate change and changes in that are likely, directly or indirectly, to effectively, including attracting and key markets.
influence the businesss performance retaining key talent and maintaining and its value.
good industrial relations Managing and mitigating risk The Groups key stakeholders include, Failure to deliver contracted Our risk management process enables but are not limited to, shareholders, commitments us to understand our operational risk customers, suppliers, staff, trade unions, Major information security breach profile.
While operational risk can never government, regulators, banks and resulting in loss or compromise of be eliminated, we endeavour to insurers.
The way that we operate as a sensitive company, personal or minimise the impact by the consistent responsible company recognises the customer information implementation of the SMS, ensuring interests of the community in areas such Major IT failure or prolonged loss of that appropriate infrastructure, as social, environmental and ethical critical IT systems, including controls, systems, staff and impact, as described under corporate enterprise applications processes are in place.
Some of our key management and Increase in people costs, including The most significant risks relate to our control techniques defined in the SMS pension-related costs reputation, and to operational and are set out below: financial performance.
A number of our our operating processes fully reflect risks also reflect social, environmental Key External risks the principles of clear delegation of and ethical issues.
Significant change in government authority and segregation of duties policy that impacts market The following summarises the key risks comprehensive business review opportunities or results in changes to we have identified that could have a processes ensure we meet customer existing or new contracts material impact on our reputation, our expectations, regulatory operations, or our financial performance: Significant changes in rates of requirements, and performance inflation directly impacting revenue criteria including operational generation and or costs effectiveness, investment returns, Failure to have sufficient funding to cash flow requirements and meet current and future business profitability requirements we monitor and regularly review key Outbreak of pandemic illness that performance indicators.
These severely affects our ability to operate include analysis of business and meet contracted commitments performance and variances from plan, customer satisfaction and We also have material investments in retention data, staff turnover and a number of joint ventures, where we satisfaction levels, occupational have joint control over management health and safety incidents, and error practices.
Our representatives within and exception reporting these companies ensure that their selective recruitment, succession processes and procedures for identifying planning and other human resource and managing risk are appropriate and policies and practices ensure that that internal controls exist and are staff skills are aligned with Sercos regularly monitored.
current and future needs Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:21 Page 57 Our performance 57 we maintain insurance policies Internal audit The Head of Internal Audit oversees the against losses arising from internal audit process, as well as acting An integral part of risk management is circumstances such as damage or as the conduit for sharing best practice, assurance that the controls identified to destruction of physical assets, theft, and flagging emerging risks to ensure manage risks are operating and effective.
legal liability for third party loss and each part of the business benefits The Head of Internal Audit has led the professional advice.
We review the from the wider scale of the Groups strategy to transform our assurance adequacy of our insurance cover at assurance activity.
programme so that it is aligned to test regular intervals the key controls managing the Groups In addition to internal audit, many parts our Investment Committee meets risk.
Internal audit is delivered at three of our business are subject to other regularly to ensure appropriate levels across the business: reviews of their controls by third parties, governance and the management of including industry regulators, ISO Group internal audit: risk associated with larger or higherStandards, customers and other audits.
functional internal audit: and risk bids, acquisitions, disposals and This third-party scrutiny significantly areas of significant capital expenditure increases the scope of auditing divisional internal audit.
conducted across the Group each year.
we apply robust project management The Head of Internal Audit leads the and change implementation The Board confirms that the actions it Group internal audit programme, which disciplines to all major projects considers necessary are being taken to is independently delivered by KPMG LLP.
including new contract transitions, remedy the failings and weaknesses Its findings are reported directly to the acquisitions, new technology which it has determined to be significant Group Audit Committee.
In addition to applications, change programmes from its review of the internal controls the audits conducted by KPMG, the and other major initiatives across the Group, including those of a Head of Internal Audit supplements the joint venture that is being closed.
The the Directors Report describes our programme by conducting periodic Board confirms that it has not been approach to health, safety and special reviews as requested by the advised of material weaknesses in environmental protection.
Qualified Serco Group plc Board or Executive financial reporting as part of the internal and experienced staff in each Committee from time to time.
business unit provide advice and The functional internal audit programme support on health, safety and supplements the Group internal audit environmental issues and undertake programme.
It addresses finance regular audits processes and controls, through a we have safety specialists in our centrally provided audit programme aviation, rail, defence, nuclear and delivered by divisional management on a marine businesses who report to the peer to peer basis, as well as audit Board and maintain and further programmes completed by Group develop the very high standards functional specialists covering health, expected in these industries safety and environment, and IT policy compliance.
the Chief Information Officer is responsible for ensuring that systems In addition to these programmes, each and processes are in place to ensure operating division maintains a divisional the confidentiality, integrity and risk register, from which we develop a availability of sensitive information and divisional internal audit programme.
This the associated information systems programme selects a number of that support our business activities contracts for review based on certain our Ethics Committee has key risks.
These reviews are completed responsibility for the review of ethical through a self-assessment programme issues that may arise from our focused on testing the controls which current and future activities manage and mitigate these key risks.
Divisional audit committees, which track the Company Secretary manages a and report on the progress of the confidential reporting service, to which divisional internal audit programme, meet staff can report illegal, dangerous, three times a year.
