RISK RISK FACTORS There are risks and uncertainties related to Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below could cause the Groups financial condition or results of operations to differ materially from expected and historical levels.
Factors not listed here, that Smith & Nephew cannot presently identify or does not believe to be equally significant, could also adversely affect Smith&Nephewsbusiness.
Currency Fluctuations The Group uses the US Dollar as its reporting currency and the US Dollar is the functional currency of Smith & Nephew plc.
In 2009, 44% 2008 44% of Group revenue arose in the US, 27% 2008 28% in Continental Europe, 21% 2008 20% in Africa, Asia, Australia, Canada, New Zealand and Latin America, and 8% 2008 8% in the UK.
During 2009, fluctuations in the exchange rates used to translate the financial statements of operations outside the US into US Dollars had the effect of decreasing Group revenue by 3% 2008 %.
The Groups manufacturing cost base is situated principally in the US, the UK and Switzerland from where finished products are exported to the Groups selling operations worldwide.
Thus, the Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the US Dollar, Sterling and Swiss Franc and the currencies of the Groups selling operations, particularly the Euro, Australian Dollar and Japanese Yen.
If the US Dollar, Sterling or Swiss Franc should strengthen against the Euro, Australian Dollar and the Japanese Yen, the Groups trading margin wouldbe adversely affected.
In 2009, the Group managed $1bn of foreign currency transactions by using forward foreign exchange contracts, of which the major transaction flows are from Euros into US Dollars and Sterling.
The Groups policy is for firm commitments to be fully covered and forecast transactions to be covered between 50% and 90% for up to one year.
Assuming the Group had not transacted forward foreign exchange contracts and ignoringdelays in recognitionof exchangerate movements : If the Euro were to have weakened on average over the year by 10% against all other currencies, Smith & Nephews profit before taxation in 2009 would have decreased by an estimated $43m 2008 decreased byanestimated $45m : If the US Dollar were to have weakened on average over the year by 10% against all other currencies, profit before taxation in 2009 would have increased by an estimated $70m 2008 increased by an estimated $51m.
Dependence on Government and Other Funding In most markets throughout the world, expenditure onmedical devices is ultimately controlledto a large extent by governments.
Funds may be made available or withdrawn from healthcare budgets depending on government policy.
The Group is therefore largely dependent on future governments providing increased funds .
Pricing of the Groups products is governed in most major markets largely by governmental reimbursement authorities.
Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, excise taxes and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the Group has operations.
This control may be exercised by determining prices for an individual product or for an entire procedure.
The Group is exposed to changes in reimbursement policy, tax policy and pricing which may have an adverse impact on sales and operating profit.
Currently health care reform legislation is under consideration in the US that would impose a significant tax on medical device manufacturers.
There may be an increased risk of other adverse changes to government funding policies arising from the deterioration in .
The Group must adhere to the rules laid down by government agencies that fund or regulate health care, includingextensive .
World Economic Conditions Demand for the Groups products is driven by demographic trends, including the ageing population and the incidence of osteoporosis and obesity.
Supply of, use of and payment for the Groups products is influenced by 20 world economic conditions which could place increased pressure on demand and pricing, adversely impacting the Groups ability to deliver revenue and margin growth.
The conditions could favour larger, better capitalised groups, with higher market shares and margins.
As a consequence, the Groups prosperity is linked to general economic conditions and there is a risk of deterioration of the Groups performance and finances during the .
In 2009, deteriorating economic conditions worldwide created several challenges for the Group, including deferrals of joint replacement procedures, heightened pricing pressures and significant declines in capital equipment expenditures at hospitals.
These factors tempered the overall growth of the Groups global markets .
Stock Market Valuations As a growth industry, medical device companies have higher stock market valuations than many other industrial companies.
If market conditions change, other companies in its sector fail to perform, or if the Group is perceived tobe performingless wellthanthesector,  adversely affected.
Political Uncertainties The Group has operations in 32 countries.
Political upheaval in some of those countries or in surroundingregions may impact the Groups results of operations.
Political changes in a country could prevent the Group from receiving remittances of profit from a member of the Group located in that country or from selling its investments in that country.
Furthermore, legislative measures in a country could result in changes in tariffs, import quotas or taxation that could adversely affect the Groups turnover and operating profit.
Terrorist activities and ongoing  impacttheGroup.
 The Groups business units compete across a diverse range of geographic and product markets.
Each market in which the business units operate contain a number of different competitors, including specialised and international corporations.
Significant product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors could adversely affect the Groups operating results.
Some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than Smith & Nephew.
These competitors may be able to initiate technological advances in the field, deliver products on more attractive terms, more aggressively market   intotheirbusinesses.
There is a possibility of further consolidation of companies, which could adversely affect the Groups ability to compete with larger companies due to insufficient financial resources.
If any of the Groups businesses were to lose market share or achieve lower than expected sales growth, there could be a disproportionate adverse impactonthe  strategic options.
Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as among the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue long term.
Increased competition and unanticipated unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to downward pressure on prices and or a decline in market share in any of the Groups business areas, which would adversely affect Smith & Nephews results of operations and hinder its growthpotential.
Product LiabilityClaims and Lossof Reputation The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices entail risk of product liability claims or recalls.
Design and manufacturing defects with respect to products sold by the Group or by companies it has acquired could damage, or impair the repair of, body functions.
The Group may become subject to liability, which could be substantial, because of actual or alleged defects in its products.
In addition, product defects could lead to the need , whichmaybe  Groupsreputation.
There can be no assurance that customers, particularly in the US, the Groups largest geographical market, will not bring product liability or related claims that would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations in the future, or that the Group will be able to resolve such claims within insurancelimits.
21 Group Description Regulatory Compliance in the Healthcare Industry Business practices in the healthcare industry are subject to regulation and review by various government authorities.
In general, the trend in many countries in which the Group does business is towards higher expectations and increased enforcement activity by governmental authorities.
While the Group is committed to doing business with integrity and welcomes the trend to higher standards in the healthcare industry, the Group and other companies in the industry have been subject to investigations and other enforcement activity that have .
The Group has committed to ensuring the rigorous application of its Compliance Programme worldwide.
In order to achieve this, management has made changes to existing corporate structures and introduced additional standards and procedures, including safeguards with respect to the sale of Group products through distributors, sales representatives and other third parties.
As the Group continues to enhance its compliance programs globally, itispossible that  disrupted.
Regulatory Approvals and Controls The medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of time and expense that should be allotted to such development.
The Group is required to comply with a wide range of regulatory controls over the manufacturing, testing, distribution, marketing and sale of its products, particularly in the US, China and Europe.
Such controls have become increasingly demanding and costly to comply with and management believes that this trend will continue.
At any time, the Group is awaiting a number of regulatory approvals which, if not received, could adversely affect results of operations.
Regulatory approval of new products and new materials is required in most countries in which the Group operates, although a single approval may be obtained for all countries within the European Union.
Regulatory approval of new products may entail a lengthy process, particularly if materials are employed which have not previously been used in similar products.
In the US, the 510 k process by which many of the Groups products are cleared for sale may be revised inwaysthat couldlead todelays orincreasedcosts.
Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could have a number of adverse consequences, including withdrawal of approval to sell a product in a country, temporary closure of a manufacturing facility, fines and potential damage tocompanyreputation.
Proprietary Rights and Patents Due to the technological nature of medical devices, the Group is subject to the potential for patent infringement claims.
Smith&Nephewattempts toprotectits  thirdparty patents and trademarks where appropriate in those areas that might conflict with the Groups business interests.
If Smith & Nephew fails to enforce its intellectual property rights successfully, its competitive position could suffer, which couldharmits results ofoperations.
Claims asserted by third parties regarding infringement of their intellectual property rights, if successful, could require the Group to expend time and significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing products or to obtain licences to the products which are the subject of such litigation, thereby affecting the Groups growth andprofitability.
Continual Developmentand Introduction of New Products The medical devices industry has a rapid rate of new product introduction.
In order to remain competitive, each of the Groups business units must continue to develop innovative products that satisfy customer needs and preferences or provide cost or other advantages.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
A potential product may not be brought to market for any number of reasons, including failure to work optimally, failure to receive regulatory approval, failure to be cost-competitive, infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights and changes in consumer demand.
The Groups products and technologies are also subject to marketing attack by competitors.
Furthermore, new products that are developed and marketed by the Groups competitors may affect price levels in the various markets in which the Groups business units operate.
If the Groups new products do not remain competitive with those of competitors, the Groups sales revenue could decline.
There is a risk that a major disruptive technology could be introduced into one or more of the Groups markets andadversely affect its  plans andtargets.
22 Manufacturing and Supply The Groups manufacturing production is concentrated at 11 main facilities in Memphis, Tennessee, Mansfield, Massachusetts and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma in the US, Hull, Warwick and Gilberdyke in the UK, Aarau in Switzerland, Tttlingen in Germany, Alberta in Canada and Suzhou and Beijing in China.
If major physical disruption took place at any of these sites, it would adversely affect the results of operations.
Physical loss and consequentialloss   andmaynotbe .
Thereisa risk that failures  toexcess .
Each of the business units is reliant on certain key suppliers of raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials.
These suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to the Groups standard of quality requirements.
If any of these suppliers is unable to meet the Groups needs, compromises on standards of quality or substantially increases its prices, Smith & Nephew would need to seek alternative suppliers.
There can be no assurance that alternative suppliers would provide the necessary raw materials on favourable or cost-effective terms at the desired quality.
Consequently, the Group may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain raw materials, which it may not be able to pass on to its customers in the form of increased prices for its finished products.
In addition, some of the raw materials used may become unavailable, and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain suitable and cost-effective substitutes.
Any interruption of supply caused by these or other factors could negatively impact Smith & Nephews revenue and operating profit.
The Group is in the process of outsourcing to third parties or relocating to lower cost countries certain of its .
Attracting and Retaining Key Personnel The Groups continued development depends on its ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel with particular expertise.
This is critical, particularly in general management, research, new product development and in the sales forces.
If Smith & Nephew is unable to retain key personnel in general management, research and new product development or if its largest sales forces suffer disruption or upheaval, its sales and operating profit would be adversely affected.
Additionally, if the Group is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitiveworkforce, itmaynotbe able tomeet its strategic business objectives.
Failure to Make Successful Acquisitions A key element of the Groups strategy for continued growth is to make strategic acquisitions or alliances to complement its existing businesses.
Failure to identify appropriate acquisition targets or failure to integrate them successfully would have an adverse impact on the Groups competitive position and profitability.
In addition, the contraction of available global capital may make financing less attainable or more expensive and could result in the Groupfailinginits strategic .
Other Risk Factors The Board considers that Smith & Nephew is subject to a numberof other risks whichare commontomost global  part ofits .
In the financial area these include interest rate volatility, share price volatility, challenges by taxation authorities, failures .
Adverse events in the areas of corporate social responsibility could also adversely impact Group operating results.
