42 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Risks and uncertainties Risks and Smiths seeks to mitigate significant identified risks through risk management processes, appropriate Group policies and other uncertainties measures including insurance where we regard it as appropriate and economic but there can be no assurance that such measures will be Smiths is exposed to the following principal risks.
effective in any particular case.
If any of these risks, or other unforeseen risks, Competition, innovation and major projects materialise, they could have a significant adverse The industries in which Smiths operates are characterised by effect on not only our business and financial technological innovation, intense global competition, consolidation through mergers, joint ventures and alliances and some of the Groups condition but also our reputation and the trading competitors may have greater resources than it does.
Additionally, the prices and liquidity of our securities.
This could entry of new competitors, the consolidation of competitors and changed lead to a loss for investors of part of or, in a worst or irrational behaviour by competitors could all have a significant case scenario, all of their investment.
adverse impact on the Groups business.
Continued development of new products and improvements to existing products are critical to the future of Smiths business and competitors may innovate in these areas more effectively.
All new or improved technologies and products involve risk, including possible abortive expenditure, reputational risk and potential customer claims or onerous contracts.
In addition, in some cases Smiths contracts to supply new products to customers before the design is established or proven.
Further, Smiths research and development programme may not produce successful results and its new products may not achieve market acceptance, create additional revenue or become profitable, which could materially harm its reputation and business.
The same is true for investment in new facilities and other major projects.
Should there be a decrease in the funds available from the Groups operations, from customer advances for example, if customers cancel the relevant contracts or from government grants, Smiths may not be able to continue an adequate level of research and development activity, which would harm its ability to develop new products and, accordingly, negatively affect its future results.
Raw materials Smiths business is affected by the price, quality, availability and timely delivery of raw materials and purchased components.
Smiths business could be adversely impacted by factors such as the destruction of suppliers facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by suppliers employees, or the failure of suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality or by increased costs.
In particular, Smiths relies on sole suppliers to provide raw materials or purchased components for some of its products.
Risks include loss of such a supplier, a reduction or interruption in manufacturing, volatility in prices or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or components.
43 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Contractual arrangements and inability to supply Intellectual property Smiths must service its existing contracts and win new contracts, the If Smiths does not obtain sufficient protection for its intellectual property, award of which is subject to competition and is affected by factors or if it is unable to effectively enforce its intellectual property rights, outside the Groups control, such as government spending decisions Smiths competitiveness could be impaired.
Risks include the failure to secure or Additionally Smiths cannot provide assurances that it will maintain its delays in securing a consistent number of contracts or any interruption trade secrets or that Smiths would have adequate remedies to to or termination of existing contracts.
compensate it for the losses in the event of breach of agreements.
Smiths ability to execute contractual commitments depends on There also can be no guarantee that Smiths technology will not be found numerous factors, including its ability to develop necessary   technologies.
Failure to deliver, in a timely fashion or at all, the products patentedproducts will notbethesubjectof intellectual propertylitigation and services Smiths is obliged to deliver, or any fault in contract or other disputes.
execution due to delays or breaches by its suppliers, may lead to higher costs or penalties.
In particular, some of Smiths contracts require Acquisitions and disposals compliance with a variety of complex laws, regulations and standards, The success of the Smiths strategy of organic growth and mergers and breaches of which could entail serious consequences for the Group.
acquisitions depends on identifying suitable acquisition targets, Smiths may also face difficulty enforcing contracts with customers, obtaining the necessary authorisations and approvals and having the suppliers or other counterparties.
ability to commit the necessary financing.
Even if it is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that Smiths Also, differences between the estimated costs in Smiths mediumand acquires may not be successful or may require significantly greater long-term contracts and actual costs may arise from a number of resources and investment than originally anticipated.
Smiths may not factors including production delays, cost overruns and other items.
be able to successfully integrate the businesses that it acquires or Smiths Detection, Smiths Medical and Smiths Interconnect frequently obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals for such acquisitions.
need to tender for government contracts.
The timing of the award of It cannot guarantee that any anticipated benefits from an acquisition contracts and payments under such contracts may be uncertain and will be realised.
uneven over a given financial year.
At times these divisions must bid for In recent years, Smiths has disposed of a number of businesses, contracts prior to completing the necessary design, which may result in including its Aerospace operations, where it has given indemnities, unforeseen technological difficulties and or cost overruns.
warranties and guarantees to counterparties.
Smiths is also party to a Additionally, certain of Smiths contracts with governments include number of contracts relating to exited businesses which it has not terms that allow the government body counterparty to terminate novated to the purchasers of these businesses.
unilaterally, reduce or modify the relevant contracts.
Controls and information technology Targeted cost savings Smiths information systems, personnel and facilities are subject to Smiths strategy to improve profitability through productivity and security risk.
Failures in security systems or processes could have efficiency by reducing costs throughout the supply chain may not yield significant adverse consequences, as could failures in Smiths various the anticipated cost savings, and Smiths could face unexpected  controls, failures to detectfraud, theft increases in direct or indirect costs.
Smiths ability to gain additional or corruption or non-compliance with the Smiths Group Code of efficiencies may become more difficult over time, such as when Business Ethics.
synergies from the restructuring programme and acquisitions are fully Additionally, Smiths is dependent on information technology systems realised.
Inaddition,  for both internal and external communications and for the day-to-day scope of savings programmes by relevant stakeholders, which may managementof its operations, with a numberof  jeopardise future savings programmes.
planning projects in the course of implementation across the Group.
Global political and economic conditions Any disruption to these systems, or delays or failures in the Smiths operates in over 50 countries, and is affected by global economic implementation of these projects, could have significant adverse conditions, particularly in the United States.
Smiths business is affected consequences for the Group.
by government spending priorities, in particular in the United States and United Kingdom, and the willingness of governments to commit substantial resources to homeland security and defence initiatives.
Current global economic and financial market conditions, including severe disruptions in the credit markets and the potential for a significant and prolonged global economic recession, have affected and may materially and adversely affect Smiths financial condition, and may also materially impact its customers, suppliers and other parties with which it does business.
Adverse economic and financial market conditions may cause Smiths customers to terminate existing purchase orders or to reduce their purchases from Smiths or cause its suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to Smiths or to make changes in the credit terms they extend it.
Smiths is also affected by the social, economic, regulatory and political conditions where it has operations, which are often unpredictable and outside its control, particularly in developing countries.
44 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Legislative and regulatory Risks and Smiths operates in highly regulated business sectors.
Smiths Detection, Smiths Interconnect and Smiths Medical are particularly subject to uncertainties regulation, with certain customers and regulatory or other enforcement bodies routinely inspecting the Groups practices, processes and continued premises.
A compliance problem arising in one of these or any other of Smiths divisions could have significant adverse consequences for the Group as a whole.
Certain of Smiths products, most notably devices produced by Smiths Medical, are subject to regulatory approval processes.
Should a regulators approval process take a particularly long time, Smiths products may suffer a delay in getting to the market, which could give an advantage to a competitor with a similar product.
Due to the security functions served by their products, Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect are subject to numerous export controls, technology licensing and other government regulations.
In addition, new regulations or certification requirements may require additional expenses or restrict Smiths commercial flexibility and planned business strategies.
Litigation and product liability In the ordinary course of its business, Smiths is subject to litigation such as product liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class actions, alleging that the Groups products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury.
Any liability claim brought against Smiths, with or without merit, could be costly to defend and could result in an increase of the Groups insurance premiums.
Some claims brought against Smiths might not be covered by its insurance policies adequately or at all.
Further information regarding material litigation in which the Group is involved is set out on page 41.
In addition, manufacturing flaws, component failures or design defects could require Smiths to recall products.
Many of Smiths products are used in critical applications where the consequences of a failure could be extremely serious and, in some cases, potentially catastrophic.
An adverse event involving one of its products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all products and could harm Smiths reputation.
Smiths also may undertake voluntarily to recall products or temporarily shut down production lines based on internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data perhaps due to issues with external parties outside the Groups control.
45 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Environmental and external Pension funding Smiths cannot provide any assurance that it has been or will be at all As a result of benefit arrangements under the Smiths retirement plans, times in complete compliance with laws, regulations and any required Smiths is subject to various funding risks, including poor performance permits concerning emissions into the environment, the violation of of the investments particularly equity investments, increased longevity which could result in fines or other sanctions.
These environmental of members and changes in valuation and funding assumptions.
Under requirements may become stricter over time and the cost of Smiths defined benefit plans, the Group is committed to pay a defined , regulationsorpermits level of benefits to plan participants, thereby bearing the risk that the may increase.
plans assets, such as investments in equity and debt securities, will not be sufficient to cover the value of those benefits.
The value of the plans Smiths could be held responsible for any and all liabilities and assets is affected by, among other things, developments in the equity consequences arising out of past or future environmental damage, and bond markets.
including potentially significant remedial costs.
There is a risk that liabilities or remediation costs could prove greater than expected or that Human resources further contamination could be discovered with significant adverse Competition for personnel is intense and Smiths may not be successful consequences for the Group.
There can be no assurance that any in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, particularly engineering provisions Smiths makes for expected liabilities and remediation costs professionals.
In addition, certain personnel may be required to receive will adequately cover such liabilities or costs.
security clearance and substantial training to work on certain programmes.
The loss of key employees, Smiths inability to attract new Smiths is exposed to a number of natural catastrophe risks, such as qualified employees, adequately trained employees, or a delay in hiring earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and other types of storm, which, like key personnel could seriously harm the Groups business.
other external events, such as terrorist attacks or a disease pandemic, could have significant adverse consequences for its business.
Insurance Smiths cannot provide assurance that it will be able to obtain insurance Financial on terms acceptable to the Group or at all since insurance varies in cost Exchange rate fluctuations have had, and could continue to have, a and can be difficult to obtain.
Furthermore, Smiths cannot provide material impact on Smiths operating results.
The global financial crisis assurance that its insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover the loss has led to increased volatility in exchange rates, which makes it harder arising from any orall of the above events.
In addition, even if its coverage to predict exchange rates and thus perform financial planning.
is sufficient, the insurance industry is subject to credit risk, particularly Smiths is exposed to two types of currency risk: transaction risk in in the event of a catastrophe or where an insurer has substantial respect of products manufactured in one currency region and sold in exposure to a specific risk.
another currency: and translation risk in that the results of its non-UK businesses will translate into pounds sterling, the Groups reporting currency, at differing values, depending on the exchange rate.
Smiths is exposed to interest rate risk derived mainly from long-term indebtedness relating to borrowings which have been issued at floating interest rates.
Cash deposits and other financial instruments expose Smiths to credit risk on the amounts due from counterparties such as suppliers, banks, insurers and customers, including governments and government agencies.
Smiths ability to refinance its borrowings in the bank or capital markets is dependent on market conditions and the proper functioning of financial markets, either of which may affect the Groups ability to refinance.
Whilst in 2009 Smiths effective tax rate on headline profits was 24%, there can be no guarantee that this rate will be sustained.
