42 SmithsGroupplc Annualreport2009  Risksand Smiths seeks to mitigate significant identified risks through risk management processes, appropriate Group policies and other uncertainties measures  economic  .
Ifanyoftheserisks, , Competition,  materialise,  The industries in which Smiths operates are characterised by  technological innovation, intense global competition, consolidation throughmergers,   .
Thiscould ,  , inaworst or irrational behaviour by competitors could all have a significant casescenario, alloftheirinvestment.
Allneworimproved technologies and products involve risk, including possible abortive expenditure,  contracts.
Further, Smiths research and development programme may not produce successful results and its new products may not achieve marketacceptance, , .
 operations, fromcustomeradvances forexample, ifcustomerscancel therelevantcontracts , Smithsmaynotbe , , accordingly, .
Inparticular,  components for some of its products.
Risks include loss of such asupplier, , volatilityin  orcomponents.
   trade secrets or that Smiths would have adequate remedies to .
Smiths ability to execute contractual commitments depends on  numerous factors, including its ability to develop necessary  technologies.
Failuretodeliver, , theproducts  and services Smiths is obliged to deliver, or any fault in contract orotherdisputes.
acquisitions depends on identifying suitable acquisition targets, ,  .
 makingan acquisition, theproducts andtechnologies thatSmiths Also,    .
 SmithsDetection,  obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals for such acquisitions.
 In recent years, Smiths has disposed of a number of businesses, , whichmayresultin , ,  orcostoverruns.
Smithsisalsopartytoa Additionally,   terms that allow the government body counterparty to terminate .
 Targetedcostsavings ,  Smiths strategy to improve profitability through productivity and securityrisk.
  ,  the anticipated cost savings, and Smiths could face unexpected , , theft .
 or corruption or non-compliance with the Smiths Group Code of efficiencies may become more difficult over time, such as when BusinessEthics.
 Any disruption to these systems, or delays or failures in the ,  implementation of these projects, could have significant adverse conditions, .
,  United Kingdom, and the willingness of governments to commit .
, including severe disruptions in the credit markets and the potential for a , haveaffectedand , andmay ,  which it does business.
Adverse economic and financial market    .
SmithsDetection,  uncertainties regulation,  bodies routinely inspecting the Groups practices, processes and continued premises.
,  Medical, are subject to regulatory approval processes.
Should a regulators approval process take a particularly long time, Smiths , whichcouldgive .
Inaddition, new regulations or certification requirements may require additional expenses or restrict Smiths commercial flexibility and planned businessstrategies.
An  market acceptance and demand for all products and could harm Smithsreputation.
45 SmithsGroupplc Annualreport2009  Pensionfunding  , ,  ,  , theviolationof oftheinvestments , increasedlongevity .
Under requirements may become stricter over time and the cost of ,  , regulationsorpermits ,  mayincrease.
Thevalueoftheplans Smiths could be held responsible for any and all liabilities and assetsisaffectedby, amongotherthings,  , andbondmarkets.
security clearance and substantial training to work on certain programmes.
,  , suchas qualifiedemployees, , oradelayinhiring earthquakes, floods, , which, like .
issufficient, , particularly :transactionriskin in the event of a catastrophe or where an insurer has substantial  .
 is dependent on market conditions and the proper functioning of financial markets, either of which may affect the Groups ability torefinance.
