Directors Report | Risk 79 Corporate Governance Risk function are required, prior to the QBRs, to Line and project management are provide quarterly updates on their key risks accountable for the management of risk which are then consolidated into the relevant within the context of their functional or crossIn this section we describe our key risk SET function list of key risks for review at the functional remit or project.
Line managers management and assurance mechanisms, QBRs.
The top 10 risks of each SET function have primary responsibility for identifying and the principal risks and uncertainties are then aggregated into a Group risk register.
and managing risk and for putting in place which we currently consider to be material The purpose of the risk review is threefold: appropriate controls and procedures to to our business in that they may have a i to identify and measure risks: ii to define monitor their effectiveness.
significant effect on our financial condition, and review plans to mitigate risks we do not results of operations and or reputation.
wish to take: and iii to define and review plans Oversight and monitoring Specific risks and uncertainties are also to manage those risks we do wish to take.
The Board is responsible for overseeing discussed at various points in this Directors A risk management standard, guidelines and and monitoring the effectiveness of the risk Report, where relevant.
supporting tools are in place to support management processes implemented by the managers in the effective identification, management.
Specialist risk and compliance Managing risk management, mitigation and reporting of risks.
functions including Group Internal Audit As a global, innovation-driven GIA support the Board by providing advice biopharmaceutical company, we face a Our approach to risk management includes and monitoring and testing the adequacy of diverse range of risks and uncertainties the development of business resilience plans to the processes.
that may adversely affect our business.
provide for situations where specific risks have Our approach to risk management is designed the potential to severely impact our business.
Our compliance organisation comprises a to encourage clear decision-making as Global business resilience plans covering wide range of specialist groups whose work to which risks we accept and which risks crisis management, business continuity and includes liaising with line management and we manage to an acceptable level, in each emergency responses are in place, supported the SET to develop systems and processes case informed by an understanding of the by the training of relevant business managers for managing risk in specific regulated areas commercial, financial, compliance and and crisis simulation activities.
to ensure ongoing legal and regulatory reputational implications of these risks.
These groups include: Good One of our strategic priorities, Promote a Laboratory: Clinical and Manufacturing We work continuously to ensure that we culture of responsibility and accountability, Compliance: Safety, Health and Environment: have effective risk management processes involves the continued nurturing of a culture Medical and Regulatory Affairs: Financial in place to support the delivery of our of responsibility and accountability.
Our Control and Compliance: Information strategic objectives, the material needs Code of Conduct and our Global Policies Security and Data Privacy: Sales and of our stakeholders and our core values.
and Standards set mandatory minimum Marketing Compliance: and Security.
We monitor our business activities and our standards of responsible behaviour for all external and internal environments for new employees.
In addition, all employees We have a dedicated Global CR team who and emerging risks to ensure that these are receive annual training on the requirements are part of the Group Public Affairs function proactively managed at the appropriate level of our Code of Conduct, as well as more and whose work includes public policy and as they arise.
specific targeted training on particular policies reputation management.
The Global CR team and standards.
Employees are encouraged leads the development of our CR strategy and The Board believes that the processes to raise questions on the practical application the alignment of tactical delivery.
The team and accountabilities which are in place and of these standards and to report suspected works closely with senior leaders across described below in further detail provide it breaches and incidents of non-compliance AstraZeneca, and with our Global Compliance with adequate information on the key risks and through the reporting channels described function, to ensure that the CR risks and uncertainties facing the business.
Further in our Code of Conduct.
During 2009, opportunities are identified and managed information about the risks and uncertainties we developed and launched a combined appropriately, in line with business objectives, facing the business are set out in the Principal Compliance and Corporate Responsibility and to ensure compliance with all relevant risks and uncertainties section from page 80.
CR Responsible Business scorecard with policies and standards inclusive of the 16 defined objectives and accountabilities, to Principles of our Code of Conduct.
Identified Embedded in business processes track performance consistently across all SET risks are mapped to AstraZenecas risk We strive to ensure sound risk management functions and enable quarterly reporting to taxonomy, which provides a structured is embedded within our business and the SET, the Audit Committee and Professor disaggregation of the potential strategic, performance management processes.
Dame Nancy Rothwell the Non-Executive operational, control compliance and Director responsible for overseeing CR within reputational risks facing AstraZeneca.
Annually, the Group develops a long-term the Group, as well as annual reporting to the business plan to support the delivery of its Board and the SET.
Management reporting and assurance strategy.
Each area for which a SET member The Audit Committee is a Committee of the is responsible SET function is required to Key responsibilities Board currently comprising five Non-Executive provide a comprehensive assessment of its Management of risk Directors and is accountable, amongst other risks as part of the annual business planning Day-to-day management of risk is delegated things, for assessing the adequacy and process.
The CEO and the CFO undertake from the Board to the CEO and through the effectiveness of the risk management quarterly business reviews QBRs in respect SET to line managers.
SET management systems and processes implemented by of each SET function at which the key risks areas are accountable for establishing an management.
In addition to the reports it relating to the relevant SET function are appropriate line management-led process receives from the GIA function, the Audit reviewed.
Underpinning this review, the and for providing the resources for Committee also regularly receives reports managers of the key areas within each SET supporting effective risk management.
from: i the Global Compliance function AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 80 Directors Report | Risk the forward-looking statements about Difficulties of obtaining and maintaining including quarterly reports addressing key compliance risks, performance against the AstraZeneca in this Annual Report, identified regulatory approvals for new products Responsible Business scorecard, by words such as anticipates, believes, We are subject to strict controls on the compliance incidents and updates on key expects and intends, are based on manufacture, labelling, distribution and reasonable assumptions.
However, marketing of our pharmaceutical products.
compliance initiatives : ii the Financial Control and Compliance Group: iii the external forward-looking statements involve inherent The requirements to obtain regulatory approval auditor: and iv management including the risks and uncertainties such as those based on a products safety, efficacy and performance management and monitoring summarised below because they relate to quality before it can be marketed for a events and depend upon circumstances specified therapeutic indication or indications processes and a Group-level risk summary from the annual business planning process that will occur in the future, and may be in a particular country, and to maintain and and the QBRs, on a range of financial influenced by factors beyond our control to comply with licences and other regulations reporting, risk, governance, compliance and or may have actual outcomes materially relating to its manufacture, are particularly different from our expectations.
The submission of an application the Audit Committee reviews and reports to regulatory authorities which are different, to the Board at each Board meeting on Product pipeline risks with different requirements, in each region or the overall framework of risk management Failure to meet development targets country may or may not lead to approval to The development of any pharmaceutical and internal controls and is responsible for market the product.
Regulators can refuse to promptly bringing to the Boards attention product candidate is a complex, risky and grant approval or may require additional data any significant concerns about the conduct, time-intensive process involving significant before approval is given, even though the results or outcome of internal audits.
The Audit financial, R&D and other resources, which medicine may already be launched in may fail at any stage of the process due to Committee also regularly receives reports other parts of the world.
The countries that relating to calls made by employees to the a number of factors, including: constitute key markets for our pharmaceutical AZethics and MedImmune helplines.
For products include the US, the countries of the further information on the Audit Committee Failure to obtain the required regulatory EU and Japan.
The approval of a product is or marketing approvals for the product see the Audit Committee section from required by the relevant regulatory authority page 94. candidate or the facilities in which it in each country, although a single pan-EU is manufactured.
marketing authorisation approval can be GIA is an independent assurance and advisory Unfavourable data from key studies.
Adverse reactions to the product function that reports to and is accountable to the Audit Committee.
GIAs budget, resources candidate or indications of other In recent years, companies sponsoring new and programme of audits are approved by safety concerns.
drug applications and regulatory authorities the Audit Committee on an annual basis and Failure of R&D to develop new have been under increased public pressure to product candidates.
the findings from its audit work are reported apply more conservative benefit risk criteria to and are discussed at each meeting of the Failure to demonstrate adequately before a pharmaceutical product is approved.
A core part of the audit cost-effective benefits to regulators.
In addition, third party interpretation of publicly work carried out by GIA includes assessing The emergence of competing products.
available data on our marketed products has the effectiveness of selected aspects of the potential to influence the approval status AstraZenecas risk control framework, A succession of negative drug project results or labelling of a currently approved and including the effectiveness of other assurance and a failure to reduce development timelines marketed product.
Further, predicting when and compliance functions within the business.
effectively could adversely affect the reputation a product will be approved for marketing of our R&D capabilities.
Furthermore, the During 2009, GIA assessed the effectiveness remains challenging.
For example, a review of a number of core compliance and failure of R&D to yield new products that of the FDA performance data indicates that operational processes operating within the achieve commercial success is likely to have for NDAs approved in 2008, the average business as well as the effectiveness of risk a material adverse effect on our financial review time ie the time from submission to condition and results of operations.
mitigation plans in a number of high risk and approval increased from 2007, in part due or business critical areas.
to the FDA failing to meet the review time Production and release schedules for biologics targets for NDAs specified under the Principal risks and uncertainties may be more significantly impacted by Prescription Drug User Fee Act IV and the The pharmaceutical sector is inherently risky regulatory processes than other products due final 2009 data, once available, is expected and a variety of risks and uncertainties may to more complex and stringent regulation to continue this trend.
Delays in regulatory affect our business.
Here we summarise, on biologics development, marketing and reviews could impact the timing of a new under the headings Product pipeline risks: manufacturing.
In addition, various legislative product launch.
For example, the approval Commercialisation and business execution and regulatory authorities are considering of motavizumab and the additional risks: Supply chain and delivery risks: Legal, whether an abbreviated approval process indications for Symbicort and Seroquel XR regulatory and compliance risks: and is appropriate for biosimilars or follow-on have been delayed by Complete Response Economic and financial risks, the principal biologics similar versions of existing biologics.
Letters which requested further information risks and uncertainties which we currently While it is uncertain when, or if, any such in relation to the biologics licence application consider to be material to our business in process may be adopted or how it would for motavizumab and the sNDAs for that they may have a significant effect on our relate to intellectual property rights in Symbicort and Seroquel XR.
financial condition, results of operations and connection with pipeline biologics, any or reputation.
These risks are not listed in such process could have a material adverse any assumed order of priority.
Other risks, effect on the future commercial prospects unknown or not currently considered material, for patented biologics.
We believe that AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Risk 81 Corporate Governance Strategic alliances formed as part Failure to obtain patent protection products, with no assurance that we will Our policy is to protect our investment in of our externalisation strategy may recoup these payments.
If these types of R&D by applying for appropriate intellectual be unsuccessful transactions are unsuccessful, this may have property protection in respect of our inventions We seek technology licensing arrangements a material adverse effect on our financial and strategic collaborations to expand our and innovations: this is a key business priority.
condition and results of operations.
Our ability to obtain patents and other product portfolio and geographical presence proprietary rights in relation to our products is, as part of our business strategy.
Examples Furthermore, we experience strong therefore, an important element of our ability of such recent strategic arrangements and competition from other pharmaceutical collaborations include: to create long-term value for the business.
companies in respect of licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations, Many of the countries in which we operate In conjunction with our agreement to which means that we may be unsuccessful in are still developing their patent laws for acquire Novexel subject to expiry or establishing some of our intended collaborative termination of the applicable waiting period pharmaceuticals and there is more uncertainty projects.
If we are unsuccessful in establishing regarding the patent protection available now under the US Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust such collaborative projects in the future, this and in the foreseeable future in these countries Improvements Act, an agreement with may have a material adverse effect on our than in countries with well developed Forest to co-develop and co-commercialise financial condition and results of operations.
ceftazidime and ceftaroline, next generation intellectual property regimes.
In addition, certain countries may seek to limit protection anti-infectives Commercialisation and for existing patents see the Patent litigation Worldwide licensing agreement with business execution risks and early loss of intellectual property rights Nektar granting AstraZeneca rights to Challenges to achieving commercial a late-stage product for the treatment section on page 82.
Limitations on the success of new products availability of patent protection in certain of opioid-induced constipation together The successful launch of a new countries in which we operate could have a with rights to an early programme to pharmaceutical product involves substantial material adverse effect on the pricing and sales deliver products for the treatment of pain investment in sales and marketing activities, without constipation side effects of our products and, consequently, could launch stocks and other items.
The commercial materially adversely affect our revenues from Collaboration with Merck to investigate success of our new medicines is of particular them.
More information about protecting a novel combination anti-cancer regimen importance to us in order to replace sales our intellectual property is contained in the Collaboration with Targacept for the global lost as and when patent protection ceases.
development and commercialisation of Intellectual property section on page 31.
If a new product does not succeed as Targacepts late-stage compound TC-5214 anticipated or its rate of sales growth is slower Delay to new product launches Agreement with Cancer Research than anticipated, there is a risk that the costs Our continued success depends on the Technology Limited and The Institute of incurred in launching it could have a material Cancer Research UK to discover and development and successful launch of adverse effect on our financial condition and innovative new drugs.
The anticipated launch develop potential new anti-cancer drugs.
We may ultimately be dates of major new products have a significant unable to achieve commercial success for impact on a number of areas of our business, Such licensing arrangements and strategic any number of reasons, including: collaborations are key to enable us to grow including investment in large clinical studies, the manufacture of pre-launch stocks of the and strengthen the business.
If we fail to Inability to manufacture sufficient quantities products, investment in marketing materials complete these types of collaborative projects of the product candidate for development ahead of a product launch, sales force training in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or commercialisation activities in a timely or at all, we may not realise the expected and the timing of anticipated future revenue and cost-efficient manner streams from commercial sales of new benefits of any such collaborative projects.
Excessive costs of, or difficulty products.
These launch dates are primarily The success of such current and future in, manufacturing driven by the development programmes that arrangements is largely dependent on the Erosion of patent term and other intellectual technology and other intellectual property we run and the demands of the regulatory property rights, and infringement of those authorities in the approvals process, as well as we acquire and the resources, efforts and rights and the intellectual property rights pricing negotiation in some countries.
Delays skills of our partners.
There is a risk that these owned by third parties to anticipated launch dates can result from a collaborative projects may be unsuccessful.
Failure to show value or a differentiated Disputes and difficulties in such relationships number of factors including adverse findings profile for our products.
in pre-clinical or clinical studies, regulatory may arise, often due to conflicting priorities demands, competitor activity and technology or conflicts of interest of the parties, which As a result, we cannot be certain that transfer.
Significant delays to anticipated launch may erode or eliminate the benefits of these compounds currently under development alliances if, for example, the agreements dates of new products could have a material will achieve success.
adverse effect on our financial condition and are terminated: insufficient financial or other results of operations.
For example, for the resources are made available to the alliances: In addition, the methods of distributing and launch of products that are seasonal in nature, intellectual property is negatively impacted: marketing biologics could have a material obligations are not performed as expected: delays for regulatory approval or manufacturing impact on the revenue we are able to generate difficulties can have the effect of delaying controls and commercial limitations are from the sales of products such as Synagis launch to the next season which, in turn, may imposed over the marketing and promotion and FluMist.
The commercialisation of significantly reduce the return on costs incurred of the collaboration products: or challenges in biologics is often more complex than for achieving commercial success of the product in preparing for the launch for that season.
This is are encountered during the development primarily due to differences in the mode of addition, a delay in the launch may give rise to increased costs if, for example, marketing process.
Also, under many of our strategic administration, the technical aspects of the and sales efforts need to be rescheduled or alliances, we make milestone payments well product, and the rapidly changing distribution protracted for longer than expected.
in advance of the commercialisation of the and reimbursement environments.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 82 Directors Report | Risk adverse price controls.
The failure to exploit In addition to patent challenges by generic Performance of new products Although we carry out numerous and potential opportunities appropriately in drug manufacturers seeking to market generic extensive clinical studies on all our products emerging markets may have a material copies of our products, other third parties before they are launched, for a new product adverse effect on our financial condition and owning patents, including research-based results of operations.
pharmaceutical companies, may assert it can be difficult, for a period following its launch, to establish from available data a their intellectual property rights against our complete assessment of its eventual efficacy Expiry of intellectual property rights products or activities or processes related to and or safety in broader clinical use on the Pharmaceutical products, diagnostic and our products.
Consequently, there are risks medical devices are normally only protected market.
Due to the relatively short time that that we may be found to infringe the patents a product has been tested and the relatively from competition from copying during the of others, and managing such infringement small number of patients who have taken the period of protection under patent rights or disputes can be costly.
We may be liable product in clinical studies, the available data related intellectual property rights such as for damages or royalties or, alternatively, Regulatory Data Protection.
Following expiry may be immature.
Simple extrapolation of we may need to obtain costly licences or the data may not be accurate and could of such rights, the product is generally open stop manufacturing, using or selling our lead to a misleading interpretation of the to competition from generic copies.
These risks may be greater in likely future commercial performance of a under patent protection or within the period respect of biologics and vaccines where of Regulatory Data Protection generally new product.
intellectual property protection is sometimes generate significantly higher revenues than not so clear.
In the event of such risks arising Product counterfeiting those not protected by such rights.
See the we may be able to mitigate them through, Counterfeit medicines may contain harmful Intellectual property section on page 31 for for example, acquiring licences or making a table of certain patent expiry dates for our substances, the wrong dose of the active modifications to cease the infringement and pharmaceutical ingredient API or no API at all.
permit commercialisation of our products Counterfeit medicines are a danger to patients but there is no certainty that any such action in all parts of the world.
The International Patent litigation and early loss will be possible and any such action may of intellectual property rights Medical Products Anti-Counterfeiting entail significant costs.
Details of significant Taskforce IMPACT of WHO estimates Any of the intellectual property rights claims that AstraZeneca is infringing third that up to 30% of medicines in emerging protecting our products may be subjected to party intellectual property rights can be economies are counterfeit, a percentage intellectual property litigation by third parties found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements and or be affected by validity challenges in which is exceeded in parts of Latin America, from page 166.
By contrast, in established patent offices.
In either case, however, we economies with effective regulatory systems, expect that the greater number of challenges In addition to the challenges to our patented counterfeit medicines represent less than 1% will be directed to our more valuable products.
products from manufacturers of generic or Despite our efforts to establish and defend of the market by market value.
Public loss of other patented pharmaceutical products, confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical robust patent protection for our products, there is a risk that some countries, particularly products as a result of counterfeiting could we may not succeed in such challenges some of those in the developing world, may materially adversely affect our reputation to our patents.
If we are not successful in seek to impose limitations on the availability maintaining exclusive rights to market one and financial performance.
In addition, of patent protection for pharmaceutical undue or misplaced concern about the issue or more of our major products, particularly in products, or on the extent to which such might induce some patients to stop taking the US where we have our highest revenue protection may be obtained and or enforced, their medicines, with consequential risks to and margins, our revenue and margins could within their jurisdictions.
As a result, generic be materially adversely affected.
manufacturers in these countries may be increasingly and more easily able to introduce Developing our business In particular, generic drug manufacturers competing products to the market earlier in emerging markets are seeking to market generic versions of than they would have been able to had more many of our more important products prior The development of our business in emerging robust patent protection been available.
markets may be a critical factor in determining to the expiry of our patents and Regulatory our future ability to sustain or increase Exclusivity periods.
For example, we are Combined with patent protection and the level of our global product revenues.
currently facing challenges from multiple Regulatory Exclusivities, products protected generic manufacturers to certain of our Challenges that arise in relation to the by a valid trade mark usually generate higher development of the business in emerging patents for Nexium and Crestor, two of our revenues than those without a trade mark.
markets include more volatile economic best-selling products in the US, our largest We believe that we have robust trade mark conditions, competition from companies that market.
If such challenges succeed and protection for our products but cannot be generic products are launched, or launched are already present in the market, the need certain that we would be able to defend any to identify correctly and to leverage at risk on the expectation that challenges challenge successfully.
appropriate opportunities for sales and to our intellectual property will be successful, marketing, poor protection of intellectual this may have a material adverse effect Expiry or earlier loss of patents on our financial condition and results of property, inadequate protection against covering competing products crime including counterfeiting, corruption operations.
In 2009, US sales for Nexium and The expiry or earlier loss of patents covering and fraud, inadvertent breaches of local Crestor were $2,835 million and $2,100 million, others innovator products may lead to the law regulation, not being able to recruit respectively.
The more significant patent availability of generic products in the same litigation relating to our products is described sufficient personnel with appropriate skills product class as our currently patented in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from products earlier than anticipated.
Such events and experience, and interventions by national governments or regulators to restrict page 166. could have a material adverse effect on our access to a market and or to introduce AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Risk 83 Corporate Governance a co-insurance, which is designed, amongst We expect that pressures on pricing will financial condition and results of operations.
For example, the loss expiry of patent rights other reasons, to encourage patients to continue and may increase.
Due to these covering major products in the US, such as use generic medicines.
Many of these pressures, there can be no certainty that Lipitor or Advair Diskus before 2012 may management tools are also employed by we will be able to charge prices for a product adversely affect the growth of our still-patented institutional customers in response to the that, in a particular country or in the aggregate, products in the same product class ie Crestor current cost-containment environment and enable us to earn an adequate return on our and Symbicort in that market.
these increasingly restrictive reimbursement investment in that product.
policies could have a material adverse Competition, price controls effect on our financial condition and results Any expected gains from productivity and price reductions of operations.
initiatives are uncertain All our products compete directly with other We are implementing various productivity products marketed either by major researchIn the US, new legislation is possible that initiatives and restructuring programmes, based pharmaceutical companies or by may allow the commercial importation of with the aim of enhancing the long-term generic pharmaceutical manufacturers.
drugs into the US from selected countries.
However, the These competitors may invest greater The adoption of such legislation could result anticipated cost savings and other benefits resources in the marketing of their products in an increase in the volume of cross-border are based on preliminary estimates and than we do depending on the relative priority product movements which could have the actual savings may vary significantly.
of these competitor products within their a material adverse effect on our financial In particular, these cost reduction measures companys portfolio.
Generic versions of condition and results of operations.
are based on current conditions and do not products are often sold at lower prices than take into account any future changes to the branded products because they do not The US House of Representatives and Senate pharmaceutical industry or our operations, have to recoup the significant cost of R&D have passed their respective healthcare reform including new business developments, investment.
However, Republican Scott Browns wage and price increases and other factors.
companies do not generally invest the upset Senate race win, in Massachusetts, If inappropriately managed, the expected same amounts in education services for has dramatically altered the course of health value of the initiative can be lost through low healthcare professionals as research-based reform negotiations by ending the Democrats employee morale and hence productivity, pharmaceutical companies, so the sales of filibuster-proof 60 vote majority in the US increased absence levels and industrial their generic products do not need to cover Senate.
Democratic leaders insist they plan action.
Our failure to successfully implement these costs.
Industry consolidation has to press ahead with health reform, while these planned cost reduction measures, resulted in a small number of very large continuing to debate the best way to proceed.
either through the successful conclusion companies, some of which have acquired of employee relations processes including generic businesses.
This trend, if it continues, Certain aspects of comprehensive health consultation and engagement, talent could materially adversely affect our reform would cause a significant change in management and recruitment and retention, competitive position, whilst consolidation the US pharmaceutical market, for example or the possibility that these efforts do not among our customers may increase price through mandating higher rebates and generate the level of cost savings we pressures.
All our patented products, discounts on branded drugs for certain anticipate, could have a material adverse including Nexium, Crestor, Seroquel and Medicare and Medicaid patients, increased effect on our results of operations and Symbicort, are subject to price pressure financial obligations through other federal financial condition.
See the People section from competition from generic products in payer programmes and an industry-wide from page 33 for information about mitigating the same product class.
These and other changes, the risk of significant business change.
such as whether further cost-containment In most of our key markets there is continued measures would need to be incorporated in Acquisitions may be unsuccessful economic, regulatory and political pressure the final bill to finance the reform of the US The Group seeks to acquire complementary to limit or reduce the cost of pharmaceutical healthcare system, could have a material businesses as part of its business strategy.
A summary of the principal adverse effect on our results of operations The integration of an acquired business aspects of price regulation and how price and financial condition.
could involve incurring significant debt and pressures are affecting our business in our unknown or contingent liabilities, as well most important markets is set out in the In the EU, efforts by the European Commission as having a negative effect on our reported Geographical Review from page 50. to reduce inconsistencies and to improve results of operations from acquisition-related standards and best practice in the disparate charges, amortisation of expenses related In the US realised prices are being depressed national regulatory systems have met with to intangibles and charges for impairment of through the use of a range of cost-control little immediate success.
The industry is, long-term assets.
These effects, individually tools, such as restricted lists, or formularies, therefore, exposed to greater application of or in combination, could cause a deterioration employing generic first strategies, and reference pricing mechanisms and ad hoc in our credit rating and or increased borrowing requiring physicians to obtain prior approval national cost-containment measures on prices.
We could for the use of a branded medicine.
These This can lead to marked price differentials also experience difficulties in integrating mechanisms put pressure on manufacturers between countries and the consequent geographically separated organisations, to reduce prices and to limit access to cross-border movement of products.
systems and facilities, and personnel with branded products.
Many of these mechanisms The importation of pharmaceutical products different organisational cultures.
Integration shift a greater proportion of the cost of from countries where prices are low due to of an acquired business may also divert medicines onto the individual via out-ofgovernment price controls or other market management resources that would otherwise pocket payments at the pharmacy counter.
dynamics, to countries where prices for be available for the continuing development The patient out-of-pocket spend is generally those products are higher, may increase.
The integration in the form of a co-payment or in some cases AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 84 Directors Report | Risk Supply chain and delivery risks Legal, regulatory and compliance risks process may result in business disruption, the loss of key employees, slower execution Manufacturing biologics Adverse outcome of litigation and or of various work processes, compliance Manufacturing biologics, especially in large governmental investigations failures due to a change in applicable quantities, is often complex and may require We may be subject to any number of the use of innovative technologies to handle legal proceedings and or governmental regulatory requirements and other issues such as a failure to integrate information technology living micro-organisms and facilities specifically investigations.
Note 25 to the Financial and other systems.
In addition, if liabilities designed and validated for this purpose, Statements includes information about are uncovered in an acquired business, the with sophisticated quality assurance and material legal proceedings in which we are control procedures.
Slight deviations in any currently involved.
Such investigations or legal Group may suffer losses and may not have remedies against the seller or third parties.
part of the manufacturing process may result proceedings, regardless of their outcome, in lot failure, product recalls or spoilage, for could be costly, divert management attention, Failure to manage a crisis example due to contamination.
or damage our reputation and demand for We handle chemical and biological materials, our products.
operate research and manufacturing plants Reliance on third parties and distribute products worldwide.
Major for goods and services Litigation, particularly in the US, is inherently disruption to our business and damage to our Like most, if not all, major research-based unpredictable, and unexpectedly high awards pharmaceutical companies we increasingly reputation may be triggered by an operational of damages can result if AstraZeneca receives incident or by actions by our employees or rely on third parties for the timely supply an adverse verdict.
In many cases, particularly third parties.
In these circumstances, a plan of goods, such as specified raw materials, in the US, the practice of the plaintiff bar is to for addressing operational and other issues equipment, formulated drugs and claim damages compensatory, punitive packaging, and services, all of which are should ensure a timely response and the and statutory in extremely high amounts.
ability to resume business as usual.
Failure to key to our operations.
Accordingly, it is difficult to quantify the institute proper communication to internal and potential exposure to claims in proceedings external stakeholders and to mobilise a rapid However, events beyond our control could of the type referred to in Note 25 to the result in the failure of supplies of goods operational response could have a material Financial Statements.
Unfavourable resolution adverse effect on our financial condition and and services, which could have a material of current and similar future proceedings results of operations.
Further information adverse effect on our financial condition and could have a material adverse effect on our about our business resilience plans and results of operations.
For example, suppliers of financial condition and results of operations, some of the key goods and services we rely processes are contained in the Managing particularly where such circumstances are risk section from page 79. upon may cease to trade.
The consequence not covered by insurance.
We may become of this may be significant delays and or subject to fines, penalties and other monetary Failure of information technology difficulties in obtaining goods and services and or non-monetary sanctions and or may on commercially acceptable terms, or even We are dependent on effective IT systems.
be required to make significant provisions in These systems support key business at all.
our accounts related to legal proceedings functions such as our R&D, manufacturing and or governmental investigations, which and sales capabilities, and are an important In addition, we may have limited access to would reduce earnings.
and or supply of biological materials, such means of internal and external communication.
Any significant disruption of these IT systems as cells, animal products or by-products.
Legal proceedings regarding or failure to integrate new and existing IT Furthermore, government regulations in business practices systems could have a material adverse multiple jurisdictions could result in restricted The marketing, promotional, clinical access to, use or transport of such materials.
effect on our financial condition and results and pricing practices of pharmaceutical of operations.
Loss of access to sufficient sources of such manufacturers, as well as the manner in materials, or tighter restrictions on the use which manufacturers interact with purchasers, Failure of outsourcing of such materials may interrupt or prevent prescribers, and patients, are subject to our research activities as planned and or We have outsourced a number of business extensive regulation and litigation.
Many critical operations to third party providers.
We seek to mitigate companies, including AstraZeneca, have been Failure of the outsource provider to deliver these risks as described in the Managing subject to claims related to these practices services in a timely manner and to the required sourcing risk section on page 33.
We actively asserted by federal and state governmental manage these third party relationships to level of quality could have an adverse impact authorities and private payers and consumers.
on our ability to meet business targets ensure continuity of supplies on time and These have resulted in substantial expense and maintain a good reputation within the to our required specifications.
Recently, we and other significant consequences to industry and with stakeholders.
It may also have established sourcing centres in China AstraZeneca.
For example, see Note 25 to and India to identify high quality suppliers in result in non-compliance with applicable the Financial Statements for a discussion of laws and regulations.
Failure to adequately those regions.
Further information is contained litigation and investigations regarding US manage the risk associated with outsourcing in the Managing sourcing risk section on sales and marketing practices, as well as could have a material adverse effect on our page 33. pricing litigation.
It is possible that additional financial condition and results of operations.
such claims could be made in the future.
As a general matter, these types of claims can result in criminal liability, fines, penalties, or other monetary or non-monetary remedies.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Risk 85 Corporate Governance approvals, which could result in significant Economic and financial risks Substantial product liability claims Given the widespread impact that additional costs and or disruption to these Adverse impact of a sustained prescription drugs may have on the health processes.
Such amendments may be economic downturn of large patient populations, pharmaceutical, imposed on us as a result of the continuing A variety of significant risks may arise from inspections to which we are subject or that a sustained global economic downturn, biopharmaceutical and medical device companies have, historically, been subject may be made at our discretion.
It is possible, including those referred to here.
Additional to large product liability damages claims, for example, that regulatory issues concerning pressure from governments and other settlements and awards for injuries allegedly compliance with current Good Manufacturing healthcare payers on medicine prices and Practice cGMP regulations for pharmaceutical volumes of sales in response to recessionary caused by the use of their products.
Adverse publicity relating to the safety of a product or products could arise and lead to product pressures on budgets may cause a slowdown of other competing products may increase recalls and seizures, interruption of production or a decline in growth in some markets.
the risk of product liability claims.
Substantial leading to product shortages, and delays In addition, the Groups customers may cease in the approvals of new products pending product liability claims that result in court to trade, which in turn may result in losses decisions against us or in the settlement of resolution of the cGMP issues.
Further, we are proceedings could have a material adverse highly dependent on being able to access effect on our financial condition and results Environmental occupational health a sustainable flow of liquid funds due to and safety liabilities of operations, particularly where such the high fixed costs of operating a global circumstances are not covered by insurance.
We have environmental and or occupational research-based pharmaceuticals business We are currently subject to extensive product health and safety related liabilities at some and the long and uncertain development liability litigation in relation to Seroquel, and currently or formerly owned, leased and third cycles for our products.
In a sustained party sites, the most significant of which are further details about this are set out in Note and or severe economic downturn, financial 25 to the Financial Statements.
Information detailed in Note 25 to the Financial Statements.
institutions that hold our cash and other about our approach to patient safety is set These liabilities are carefully managed by short-term deposits may cease to trade and out in the Patient safety section from page 20. designated technical, legal and business there can be no guarantee that we will be personnel and there is no reason for us to able to access our assets without a protracted, Failure to adhere to applicable laws, believe that associated current and expected expensive and uncertain process, if at all.
rules and regulations expenditure and or risks are likely to have Although we have adopted conservative We operate globally in complex legal and a material adverse effect on our financial cash management and treasury policies condition and results of operations as a regulatory environments.
Any failure to comply to mitigate this risk further information on with applicable laws, rules and regulations in general matter, but, to the extent that they which is contained in the Financial risk these jurisdictions may result in civil and or exceed applicable provisions, they could management policies section on page 44 criminal legal proceedings being filed against have a material adverse effect on our we cannot be certain that these will be financial condition and results of operations us, or in us becoming subject to regulatory completely effective should a number of sanctions, which could have a material for the relevant period.
In addition, a change major financial institutions cease to trade.
adverse effect on the conduct of our in circumstances including a change in Additionally, if we need access to external business, our financial condition and results applicable laws or regulations may result sources of financing to sustain and or grow in such an effect.
Regulatory authorities have our business, such as the debt or equity wide-ranging administrative powers to deal capital financial markets, this may not be with any failure to comply with continuing A significant non-compliance issue or other available on commercially acceptable terms, regulatory oversight and this could affect us, environmental or occupational health or safety if at all, in the event of a severe and or incident for which we were responsible could whether such failure is our own or that of third sustained economic downturn.
This may parties with whom we have relationships.
result in us being liable to pay compensation, particularly be the case in the event of any As these laws, rules and regulations change fines or remediation costs.
In some default by the Group on its debt obligations, or as governmental interpretation of those circumstances, such liability could have which may have materially adverse a material adverse effect on our financial laws, rules and regulations evolves, prior consequences on our ability to secure debt conduct may no longer be sufficient to ensure condition and results of operations.
In addition, funding in the future or generally on our ongoing compliance.
our financial provisions for any obligations financial condition.
Further information on that we may have relating to environmental or debt-funding arrangements is contained in the occupational health and safety liabilities may For example, once a product has been Financial risk management policies section approved for marketing by regulatory be insufficient if the assumptions underlying on page 44. authorities, it is subject to continuing control the provisions, including our assumptions and regulation, such as the manner of its regarding the portion of waste at a site for which we are responsible, prove incorrect, manufacture, distribution, marketing and safety surveillance.
In addition, any or if we are held responsible for additional amendments that are made to the contamination or occupational health and manufacturing, distribution, marketing safety related claims.
and safety surveillance processes of our products may require additional regulatory AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 86 Directors Report | Risk Limited third party insurance coverage of a tax dispute or a failure by the tax Impact of fluctuations in exchange rates As a global business, currency fluctuations Recent insurance loss experience in the authorities to agree through competent can significantly affect our results of pharmaceutical industry, including product authority proceedings.
See the Financial risk operations, which are accounted for in US liability exposures, has increased the cost management policies section on page 44 for of, and narrowed the coverage afforded by, further details of risk mitigation and Note 25 dollars.
Approximately 49% of our global 2009 sales were in North America with pharmaceutical companies product liability to the Financial Statements for details of a significant proportion of that figure being insurance.
In order to contain insurance current tax disputes.
in respect of US sales, which is expected costs in recent years, we have continued to adjust our coverage profile, accepting Pensions to remain our largest single market for the foreseeable future.
Sales in other countries a greater degree of uninsured exposure.
A particular risk relates to the Groups pension are predominantly in currencies other than The Group has not held product liability obligations, the single largest of which is the US dollar, including the euro, Japanese insurance since February 2006.
In addition, the UK Pension Fund.
The obligations are where claims are made under insurance backed by assets invested across the broad yen, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar.
We also have a growing exposure to emerging policies, insurers may reserve the right to investment market.
Sustained falls in these market currencies, although the exchange deny coverage on various grounds.
If such assets will put a strain on funding which rates of some of these currencies are linked denial of coverage is ultimately upheld, this may result in requirements for additional could result in material additional charges to to the US dollar.
Major components of our cash, restricting cash available for strategic cost base are located in the UK and Sweden, our earnings.
An example of a dispute with business growth.
Similarly, if the liabilities where an aggregate of approximately 30% insurers relating to the availability of insurance rise, there will be a strain on funding from the of our employees are based.
Movements in coverage and in relation to which costs business.
The likely increase in the IAS19 incurred by the Group may not ultimately be the exchange rates used to translate foreign accounting deficit generated by any of these currencies into US dollars may, therefore, recovered through such coverage is included may cause the ratings agencies to review have a material adverse effect on our in Note 25 to the Financial Statements in the our credit rating, with the potential to affect financial condition and results of operations.
negatively our ability to raise debt.
See Additionally, some of our subsidiaries import Note 23 to the Financial Statements from and export goods and services in currencies Taxation page 156 for further details on the Groups other than their own functional currency The integrated nature of our worldwide pension obligations.
and so the results of such subsidiaries could operations can produce conflicting claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be be affected by currency fluctuations arising between the transaction dates and the taxed in individual territories.
The resolution settlement dates for these transactions.
of these disputes can result in a reallocation Further information is contained in Note 15 of profits between jurisdictions and an increase or decrease in related tax costs, to the Financial Statements from page 144. and has the potential to affect our cash Credit and return on flows and EPS.
Claims, regardless of their substantial investments merits or their outcome, are costly, divert management attention and may adversely As part of its normal operations, the Group will hold significant cash balances.
The amount affect our reputation.
of cash held at any point reflects the level of cash flow generated by the business and the The majority of the jurisdictions in which we operate have double tax treaties with other timing of the use of that cash.
The majority of excess cash is centralised within the Group foreign jurisdictions, which enable us to treasury function for investment and as such ensure that our revenues and capital gains do is subject to counterparty risk on the principal not incur a double tax charge.
If any of these double tax treaties should be withdrawn or invested.
See the Financial risk management policies section on page 44 for details of amended, especially in a territory where a how the Group seeks to mitigate this risk.
member of the Group is involved in a taxation dispute with a tax authority in relation to cross-border transactions, such withdrawal or amendment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as could a negative outcome AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
