Principal Risks and uncertainties The key potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the groups long-term performance are described below.
Risks Mitigation actions Operational Risks Political and economic environment We operate in a range of end-user markets around the world.
Spectris has a broad spread of markets, products and customers, Potential risk exists, therefore, in the ability to carry out our which limit this risk to a certain degree.
During 2009 there was a strategy and do business as a result of material adverse changes material adverse change in the economic conditions in the majority in the political and economic environments in the countries in of the markets in which we operate.
We took a number of actions which we operate.
to mitigate the impact of these adverse conditions, and will take additional actions as needed should conditions deteriorate again, whilst keeping the resources in place to deliver on our longer-term strategy.
It is considered that, by taking these actions, together with a strong focus on cash management, maintaining a strong balance sheet and financial position, the group can manage this risk.
Seasonal fluctuations in sales Our operations are characterised by short lead times and seasonal We endeavour to reduce this risk by evening out the first half second fluctuations in sales, with some businesses exhibiting a greater trend half sales and profit split and ensuring that orders designed to ship towards sales in the second half of the year.
This limited forward in the final few months of the year are carefully followed in order visibility and the potential for delays in the shipment of orders to secure invoicing before the year end.
However, the nature of the exposes us to the potential risk that we may not meet our sales majority of the companys business means that visibility of orders forecast for the year.
Acquisition integration A key element of our strategy is to grow the business portfolio We believe that our track record of carefully selecting businesses through acquisition of stand-alone or bolt-on businesses which which fulfil our acquisition criteria and rigorous financial assessment complement or extend the range of products and applications of the potential acquisitions ability to contribute to growth we can provide.
Potential risks exist in successfully integrating will continue to ensure that any businesses acquired will be acquisitions.
New product development In order to sustain competitive advantage, the group invests We endeavour to minimise this risk by ensuring that new product significantly in research and development.
The development of all development is carried out in conjunction with customers to new technologies and products involves risk, including the product establish that the product meets expectations of the market.
Pages being more expensive, or taking longer, to develop than originally 10 and 11 of this Business Review describe in more detail how we planned: that the market for the product is smaller than originally involve our customers in the product development process.
envisaged: or that the product fails to reach the production stage.
Competitive activity The nature of our marketplace means that all of our businesses We maintain our market-leading positions by significant investment are exposed to risk from competitor activity.
The diversity of our products and markets, and the high barriers to entry, limit the overall risk from any single competitor.
Our business model means that we are able to react quickly to changes in customer and market demand.
Supply chain disruption Potential risk exists in the loss of a key customer or non-payment by Potential risk from loss of a key customer is limited as no single customers.
The company is also exposed to the risk that some of the customer accounts for more than 2% of turnover, and credit control components it sources, particularly for custom-built items or older procedures limit the risk from non-payment by customers.
Group components, are provided by a single supplier and are vulnerable operating companies also monitor customer satisfaction to ensure to interruption of supply.
they are meeting customers product, delivery and service requirements.
Our strategic sourcing teams work hard to source lower-cost components from around the world.
We also mitigate this risk by finding alternative sources in order to reduce dependency on single-source suppliers and building sufficient safety stock of critical components.
Larger contracts and systems work Although the majority of our business is to supply products only, We have a strict approval process for such contracts in order to instances where our companies enter into larger contracts and manage any risks they may present.
Effective processes ensure that systems work are becoming more common across a number of our contractual exposures are mitigated, price discipline is maintained, businesses.
The risk exists that the profitability of such business may and we have good visibility of costs.
In addition, training be impacted adversely unless effective processes are in place.
programmes are in place, and the legal and internal audit focus has been strengthened.
26 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements The process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks forms part of the groups system of internal controls.
These are described in the Directors Report on page 39.
Risks Mitigation actions Project management Risk exists from the potential impact of poor project management This risk is being mitigated through enhanced front-end planning discipline.
As project management becomes an increasing feature of and the preparation and monitoring of performance against the way we do business, an impact upon group profitability may Project Charters for all major projects.
result from failures in project management through, for example, missed sales opportunities or cost overruns arising from delays in new product development.
Financial Risks Fluctuations in exchange rates We have operations around the world which sell and purchase Foreign exchange transaction risk is managed principally goods in foreign currencies, and whose results we record in a variety through forward contracts covering up to 75% of forecast of different local currencies.
We are therefore exposed to any forward exposures for up to 18 months ahead.
Foreign significant changes in foreign currency exchange rates between exchange translation risk, which results from converting foreign a number of different currencies.
currency to sterling, is not hedged but is actively managed through natural hedging by matching invoicing and purchasing currencies as far as is commercially practical.
In addition, it is the aim where possible to hedge foreign currency investments with borrowings in the same currency.
In order to minimise interest cost and maximise interest income, companies are required to pass surplus funds to group treasury through intercompany loans.
Where possible, zero balance pools are in place to centralise cash automatically.
Liquidity and interest rate risk The potential risk exists that the group will not be able to meet its The group manages its liquidity risk through the use of financial obligations as they fall due.
regularly updated cash flow forecasts and liquidity headroom analysis to determine its funding requirements.
The group Interest rate risk comprises both the interest rate price risk that maintains sufficient lines of credit from high quality investment results from borrowing at fixed rates of interest and also the interest grade lenders to cover expected cash requirements and provide cash flow risk that results from borrowing at variable rates.
These facilities are described in detail in the Financial Review.
The long-term aim with regard to interest rate risk is to have a balance between fixed and floating rate debt.
Interest rate swaps are considered to achieve this balance.
Intellectual property risk Our business is focused on the design and manufacture of Although these are important to growth as a whole, no technologically advanced products and applications and the group single patent, trade secret or trademark is sufficiently makes significant investment in research and development.
As a important to present a material risk to the success of the consequence, we own and protect patents, trademarks, trade company.
Appropriate measures are taken to protect the secrets, copyright information and intellectual property licenses.
companys intellectual property rights and to minimise the The risk exists that these may be infringed by third parties or that risk of infringement by third parties.
Spectris is prepared we may inadvertently infringe third-party rights.
to initiate legal action if necessary to safeguard its interests.
Inadvertent infringement of third-party rights also presents a risk and Spectris has procedures in place requiring its operating companies to maintain a watching brief on new applications and to undertake specific reviews prior to commencing new product development programmes, acquisitions or licenses.
Information technology business disruption We depend on timely and reliable information from key software Disaster recovery plans to maintain business-critical processes applications to aid day-to-day operational management and to and activities in the event of a significant interruption to the provide accurate financial information for our head office.
Whilst we normal course of business are in place throughout the group endeavour to ensure the continuous availability and operation of and are regularly tested.
these systems and software, any disruption could delay or otherwise impact day-to-day decision making.
27 Annual report and accounts 2009 Spectris plc
