We conduct regular risk reviews to identify the major risks in the business which may our principal affect our operating and financial performance and where possible put in place risks and mechanisms to mitigate them.
Significant risks are reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee.
It is not possible to identify every risk that could affect the business, and uncertainties the actions described below to mitigate those risks cannot provide absolute assurance that the risk will not occur and or adversely affect the operating or financial performance of the Group.
These processes are more fully described in the Directors statement on corporate governance.
The principal risks and uncertainties which the directors believe are currently faced by Spirent Communications plc are discussed below.
risk and potential impact mitigation actions Macro economic and industry sector Having the ability to adapt to changing market dynamics is key In common with most businesses Spirent is exposed to the current in order to minimise the effects of adverse economic or economic conditions.
We are particularly exposed to conditions in sector conditions.
the telecommunications sector into which we sell many of our products and services.
Our businesses closely monitor both market and geographic trends so that we are in a position to take timely actions to protect profitability where possible.
Technological change We continue to make significant investment in product As Spirent sell solutions in industries that are characterised by development and in 2009 47.5 million, being 17.5 per cent rapid technological changes, keeping at the forefront of these of revenue, was invested.
technologies is critical to our success and in ensuring that we remain competitive in our markets.
Bringing these new We work closely with customers and remain focused on their solutions to market at the right time for our customers is also requirements and believe we are investing in areas that key to our success as well as ensuring that our solutions represent their future.
portfolio is aligned with their needs.
Our value proposition is based on our service, expertise and product breadth.
Reliance on contract manufacturers We work closely with our contract manufacturers and We use contract manufacturers for the manufacture of a maintain a regular on-site presence.
To minimise the effect substantial amount of our products.
Disruption or financial on supply that could be caused by disruption at contract problems of contract manufacturers or limitations in the manufacturers there are contingency plans in place to manufacturing capacity at contract manufacturers could either transfer manufacturing to other locations.
limit supply or increase our costs.
Business continuity risks An important component of Spirents corporate governance is Operational risks are present in the Groups businesses.
These its integrated risk management strategy and its regular self risks include the risk of failed internal and external processes assessment of risks encompassing all business units.
Part of and systems, human error and external events, such as a this process is to ensure that the risks of disruption to the natural disaster.
For example a significant portion of our business are identified, monitored and controlled wherever communications operations are located in California which has possible as well as arranging appropriate insurance cover.
in the past experienced natural disasters, including earthquakes and wildfires.
12 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW risk and potential impact mitigation actions Retention and recruitment of key staff We aim to find, keep and engage the highest calibre of Spirent is its employees.
So attracting and retaining highly employees and encourage their contribution and qualified and skilled employees is essential in enabling us to development.
An environment that fosters innovation and deliver on our strategy and to the success of our business.
collaboration is critical to Spirents success.
Appropriate career paths and internal recognition programmes are developed for both technical and non-technical staff.
Intellectual property We have active intellectual property protection programmes Spirents success is dependent in part on proprietary in place to obtain appropriate intellectual property technology which may be infringed by others inadvertently protection in a cost effective manner.
There are procedures in the development of new products We may inadvertently infringe the intellectual property rights that include consideration of intellectual property rights of of third parties.
We also consult internal and external legal counsel experienced in intellectual property matters.
Exchange rate The Group does not enter into instruments to hedge the Spirent conducts operations globally and accordingly the value translation exposure of the operating results or net assets of of revenue and expenses, assets and liabilities will be affected its overseas subsidiaries as these are considered accounting by fluctuations of the pound sterling, the reporting currency, and not cash exposures.
against the currency in which these are denominated.
The principal currency to which we are exposed is the US dollar.
Where currency exposures on trading do not naturally offset, forward foreign currency exchange contracts are put in place Currency exposures also arise from trading transactions by Group treasury to hedge the transactions.
undertaken by the Groups operations in foreign currencies.
Spirent Communications plc 13 Annual Report 2009
