Scottish and Southern Energy 53 Annual Report 2009 Managing Risk Introduction of the Board are agreed must not be Risk Categories There are many definitions of risk subverted for any other financial end.
The risks are set out under six principal management and the events of 2008 Against this background, SSE believes categories, summarised below.
They are: demonstrated that very high profile it has and should be seen to have a organisations with apparently textbook relatively risk-adverse approach, consistent k Strategic risk is defined as losses approaches to the issue can be with this fundamental financial goal.
resulting from a fundamental and overwhelmed by fundamental failures long-lasting change to the business which well-documented systems and Within this model, SSE has in place a environment within which SSE processes appeared powerless to prevent.
comprehensive approach for assessing and operates.
Strategic risks which SSE managing risks and maintaining internal has to manage include material Ticking the right boxes is a responsible controls, such that neither the company nor changes in economic and financial thing to do, but it is no substitute for a its reputation are undermined by failures or conditions and the impact of more fundamental responsibility on the misjudgements.
part of companies: to ensure their overall k Market risk stems from unexpected business model and strategy and culture Approach to Risk Management adverse movements in commodity is designed with risk firmly in mind.
The objectives of SSEs risk management prices and exchange rates.
Market policy are to ensure that risk is: risks which SSE has to manage Limiting Value at Risk include its obligations to supply SSEs strategy is to deliver sustained k consistently identified, measured, customers with electricity and gas.
real growth in the dividend payable to monitored and reported across all Related to this, SSEs Risk and shareholders through the efficient operation business activities: Trading Committee is authorised of, and investment in, a balanced range of k managed in a co-ordinated way, with to take on energy market risk within clear roles and responsibilities: and regulated and non-regulated energy-related specified limits.
There are also k managed within SSEs specified risk businesses.
In practice, this means SSE general market risks from the appetite.
derives income and profit from businesses competitive market place which which are subject to economic regulation SSE operates in.
Assessment of Risks and businesses which are not.
At the k Credit risk arises from the default of a Risks are assessed by management and same time, those businesses have a contractual counter-party resulting in reported on in each business unit within common core: energy.
failure to settle or deliver on liabilities.
An overview of the main risks are Credit risk exists in SSEs core set out by the Group Audit department In the regulated category, SSE is involved business due to its need to purchase for the Audit Committee meetings held in in three separate activities electricity fuel for generating assets and as a November and May of each year, and also transmission, electricity distribution and consequence of its energy trading annually for the Board most recently at gas distribution.
SSE does not deliberately seek its meeting held in March 2009, during exposure to credit risk as a means which it reviewed principal risk categories In the latter non-regulated category, of generating profit.
and the effectiveness of SSEs system of SSE is involved in electricity production k Financial risk covers interest rates, internal controls.
This process involves and in electricity and gas supply.
Within foreign exchange, liquidity or credit in an assessment of both the likelihood electricity production, it uses a variety summary, the failure to have sufficient and importance of each risk.
of sources coal, gas, oil, biomass, wind financial resources to meet obligations and water from which to generate power.
The Risk and Trading Committee of the k Operational risk stems from the Board meets monthly to review operational These businesses are complemented failure of internal processes, systems and financial risks and exposures in energy by other energy-related activities such or people and from external events trading, generation and treasury.
as contracting, connections, metering not included in other categories.
Operational risk is inherent in SSEs The policy of the Board is to ensure activities due to the relatively complex proper identification, measurement, and The practical effect of this is to limit both nature of its business processes.
monitoring of such risks, ensure clarity the extent of any single risk and the value k Regulatory and legislation risk covers of roles and responsibilities, and to ensure associated with it, and the need to limit environmental, safety, regulatory and where possible that risks are covered or the value at risk is at the heart of SSEs general legislative and public policy hedged within SSE due to the diversity decision-making processes.
SSE is the changes which can affect any aspect of energy-related activities.
only company listed on the London Stock of SSEs business.
Exchange involved in electricity and gas distribution and supply, with the associated business model which is capable of offering such balance and such a framework for There are many definitions of risk management and limiting the value at risk.
the events of 2008 demonstrated that very high profile Clarity of Financial Goal organisations with apparently textbook approaches to SSEs decision-making processes, including its assessment and management the issue can be overwhelmed by fundamental failures of risks, are also supported by the clarity of its fundamental financial goal for which well-documented systems and processes shareholders to deliver sustained real appeared powerless to prevent.
dividend growth which all members BUSINESS REVIEW k k Scottish and Southern Energy 54 Annual Report 2009 Managing Risk continued Management of Risk Categories Risk Management Model In addition to SSEs well-established policies and procedures on internal control and risk management, including managers defined responsibilities, and Strategy Risk Assessment Culture its active and ongoing programme of audit k reviews, designed to review internal control environments in key risk areas, Limited Value at Risk SSE has the following approaches to k managing principal risk categories: k Strategic risks are minimised by Risk Management k SSEs approach of operating and investing in a balanced range of regulated and non-regulated energyOpen and Transparent Decision-making related businesses, thus limiting the k value at risk.
The other key feature of SSE is that it provides energy, which Clarity of Financial Goal is something that is needed rather k than just wanted.
k Market risks are managed through volumetric limits on commodity-related risks and through the application of a Value at Risk VaR model applied in the context of the underlying position and how it could change.
More fundamentally, SSE A companys culture can be a risk subject to financial limits established prioritises the development and in itself.
If mistakes are harshly dealt by the Board and managed by the Risk retention of experienced employees with, they will be hidden: if arrogance is and Trading Committee.
Operationally, who have operated in a wide variety tolerated within an organisation, the risk the economic risks associated with of circumstances and conditions and of poor decisions goes up.
If bonuses this exposure are managed through whose risk management experience encourage sub-optimal behaviour, sub a selection of longerand shorteris used.
SSE has in place insurance optimal behaviour will result.
SSE, on term contracts for commodities.
policies in respect of all major risks, the other hand, regards culture as a risk More fundamentally, SSE manages including operational, and these are management tool.
In this context, the generation and supply activities as reviewed annually by the Board.
practical application of the Teamwork a single value chain which, in itself, k Regulatory and legislation risks value within SSE means the award of is a means of managing risks.
are managed by engagement with team-based bonuses and a culture of k Credit risks in relation to SSEs regulators, government officials and openness and transparency.
The Board  businesses other key organisations to ensure reviewed the organisational culture, are managed in accordance with the risks are mitigated.
and its impact on the companys industry standards as set out by management and operations, in May Ofgem.
The greatest credit risks lie Appetite For Risk 2009 and is satisfied that it is generally with the non-regulated Generation As stated above, SSE has a generally consistent with the companys publiclyand Supply business, for which specific risk-averse approach, consistent with stated core values of Safety, Service, credit risk controls that match the risk its moderate but nevertheless Efficiency, Sustainability, Excellence profile of those activities are applied.
fundamentally important financial goal and Teamwork.
SSE does not deliberately seek of delivering sustained real growth in exposure to credit risk as a means the dividend.
Within this, its approach Purpose and Risk of generating profit.
in respect of regulated businesses is more As stated above, SSEs purpose is to k Financial risks are managed through risk-averse than is the case in other provide energy, which is something the application of policies designed to activities, where SSE might consider people need.
Its principal financial maintain a balance between continuity taking on additional risk where the risk goal is to deliver sustained real dividend of funding and flexibility, with debt is very well-understood and can be growth, which is moderate.
In their book, maturities spread across a broad range mitigated and the potential returns are Built to Last, Jim Collins and Jerry Porras of dates and the majority of interest clearly attractive but also credible.
wrote about companies that do not view rate exposure fixed.
Liquidity risk business as ultimately about maximising and Going Concern is fully described Culture profitability.
That is SSEs view of in note 29 to the Accounts.
More Also central to SSEs approach to risk sustainable business and it underpins broadly, clear authorisation levels is its core value of Teamwork, defined its approach to risk management in all are maintained and there is clear as supporting and valuing colleagues and aspects of its activities.
It means current segregation of accounting duties.
working together in an open and honest management meeting the needs to present k Operational risks are managed way.
This doesnt just allow but encourages stakeholders, customers, employees, through the identification of specific full discussion of the risks and rewards communities and shareholders without risks within each activity and the of any major decision discussion which compromising the ability of future development of associated mitigation involves people because of what they know, management to meet their plans and deployment of relevant not simply who they are.
