Risk Description Mitigating action and management Unforeseen competitor activity.
Continuous market surveillance to 1 gather information on competitor activity.
Increased margin pressure from large Commercial risks retail groups.
NPD process focused on delivering value added products to customers.
Geographic expansion into emerging markets.
Group-wide management of key accounts.
Effects on financial performance of economic downturn in a major market.
Robust financial and risk analysis of geographic expansion including the use of external advisers.
Strong management reporting structures ensure that emerging risks are identified quickly.
Continuous effort to spread revenue generation across global operations.
The Group does not meet growth Strong in-house corporate development 2 expectations.
team using external advisers as appropriate.
Failure to acquire or integrate Post-acquisition management integration new businesses teams established at an early stage in the process.
3 Inability to supply products resulting from Strong technical and quality assurance Failure to comply with regulatory failure to comply with regulatory demands team ensuring that all products comply matters, including environmental leading to financial loss and damaged with all necessary regulations.
and health and safety matters brand reputation.
Key principle within the Group to use Impact on reputation resulting from negative regulation as a competitive advantage.
environmental or health and safety reports.
Dedicated team conducting environmental and H&S audits in operating facilities.
Adverse financial impact on the income Increased focus on working capital measures.
Strengthening of the financial analysis team.
Write down of assets due Continued SAP roll out gives greater visibility to non-recoverability of assets held by the Group.
Failure in NPD pipeline resulting in loss Defined methodology for controlling 5 of sales and profits.
Failure of New Product Steering Committee chaired by the Development NPD Chief Executive to monitor NPD activities.
Failure at a factory, by a third-party Dual sourcing and ability to switch production.
6 supplier, or a failure at a warehouse.
Follow up on recommendations from Disruption to the Group business interruption reviews.
supply chain Development and continuous review of business continuity plans.
Failure of IT system to support key business Continuous testing of backup procedures 7 processes functions resulting in loss of sales and disaster recovery plans.
IT system failure Group IT provides system support in key markets.
1 5 2 6 3 7 4 8 34 35 Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009
