26 Business review Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Principal risks and uncertainties Financial The Board of Synergy is fully committed to the Macro economic instability creating volatility identification and management of risk and also in currencies and input costs recognises the potential positive benefits of a risk Recent economic turmoil, arising out of problems in management programme in preparing the Company the financial services sectors, has impacted the whole to take advantage of any changes in the commercial economy and Synergy has not been immune to these environment.
In particular currency fluctuations impact the cost of bought in goods and raw materials.
A Risk Management Director was appointed in 2007 to work with regional and divisional management to Mitigation identify risks and put in place formal plans to mitigate In order to protect against currency risks, the Group these risks.
A formal risk management procedure has has a rolling hedging programme to avoid short-term been documented and agreed by the Board.
Risk uncertainty in the cost of purchases.
The Group also management working groups have been established in has borrowings in currencies which provide a hedge each division and divisional managing directors are against investments in overseas net assets, mainly the required to report to the Board any new risks that are Euro and the Chinese RMB.
The Risk Management Director reports to the Board each month and a formal review of all risks Increased cost of energy facing the Group is undertaken at least once a year.
The Group is exposed to a variable risk across its various divisions from the fluctuating cost of The responsibility for ensuring that systems are in energy.
This risk is especially acute in the linen place to manage risk lies with the Board of Synergy management business within Healthcare solutions Health plc.
The implementation of control is delegated and Sterilisation services and to a lesser extent within to senior managers throughout the Group who are Decontamination services.
tasked with monitoring, controlling and reporting on the changing risk environment.
As such these risks Mitigation represent a position which will inevitably alter as the The Group is now hedging a greater proportion of its business and the trading environment changes.
forward energy costs both in the UK and overseas, to avoid instability in this area of cost, and approximately The risks that are described were selected from those 60% of the energy prices are already fixed for the identified by our risk management groups that have forthcoming year.
been operating across the business over the past 12 months.
These groups operate under a system Additionally, the Group is actively managing its use of detailed in the Group Risk Management Procedure.
non-renewable energy with commitment to reduce costs and consumption during the next 12 months.
Actions The principal risks that may affect Group success are taken so far include using more energy efficient equipment, set out under the following headings: lighting and vehicles, reducing overseas travel through video-conferencing and reorganising operations to Financial reduce energy demand.
Operational People Commercial 27 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Operational Unexpected loss of capacity IT systems disruption There is a variable amount of contingent capacity Synergys business is supported by a variety of IT systems availability across the Groups processes that needs and software applications.
Any disruption in the service to be carefully controlled and managed.
The balance from these systems would adversely impact the related between the efficient use of assets and the potential business operation.
need for contingent capacity has to be kept under regular review.
If this is not achieved the Group could Mitigation disrupt its service to customers, resulting in a negative The Group has identified and risk assessed all business impact on revenues and our reputation.
critical software and is actively managing a process to maintain, upgrade and where necessary replace Mitigation such systems.
The Group, in co-operation with its insurers, has implemented an in-depth programme of business Synergy places the highest importance on having a impact analysis designed to improve its current strong in-house IT team capable of fully supporting contingency plans.
This programme will ensure and developing its IT capability.
The underlying IT continuous reviews of the business processes are infrastructure is continuously improved and robust back taking place and contingency arrangements can up and fail over systems are in place.
A programme adapt to the changing environment mitigating any has been drawn up to replace a number of business unexpected loss of operational capacity.
software applications over the next few years.
Business review 28 Business review Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Principal risks and uncertainties People Commercial Attracting and retaining talented employees Investment in emerging markets The ability to attract, develop and retain the highest One key business strategy is to expand in new and calibre employees at all levels of the business is critical emerging markets.
Such a plan requires the Board to the future success of the Group.
to fully appreciate the challenges that will arise from legal and cultural differences between different Mitigation geographic regions.
The Group is in the process of establishing a talent management programme that will identify and develop Mitigation high potential managers and technical staff.
The Synergy undertakes a full risk assessment of any Company has an international graduate recruitment major project and the related market before significant programme which forms a key element in its plan to funds are committed.
Each project is under the control ensure that the business has sufficient talent to of a senior manager, supported by an experienced support future growth.
The senior manager is responsible for realising the project on time and on budget to the agreed standards.
Regional managers provide the Health and safety local knowledge required and this is enhanced by Some of Synergys technical processes, if uncontrolled, recruitment of the best available local managers have the potential to cause harm to our employees, our and personnel with the required experience neighbours and the environment.
This would also affect and qualifications.
Synergys reputation, and potentially its licences to operate.
Strong policies and procedures in Health and Safety management are therefore vital to the Group.
Integrity of security systems Synergy is the custodian of customers assets and Mitigation customer data and its own intellectual property.
Synergy is committed to observing high standards It is therefore important that robust security procedures of heath and safety and takes its responsibility to are in place.
Any loss could adversely affect the the environment seriously.
It has recently updated commercial performance and the reputation of the its health and safety policy and is supplementing Group as a good business partner.
its in-house resource with a third party specialist health and safety company to audit its facilities.
Mitigation Incident reporting procedures are in place and these The Group continues to invest in physical security are summarised in the monthly board report of the around its major assets and to ensure that site security Director of Risk Management.
The report monitors procedures are of a consistently high standard.
The IT and benchmarks its performance against national department has also been proactive in ensuring that trends and implements improvements where needed.
electronic security remains updated and our systems Managers and employees are fully involved in local cannot be easily penetrated by unauthorised persons.
safety matters and training is provided.
Security and protection of the Groups unique proprietary software is given the highest priority.
