0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 15 6 09 16:24 Page 27 External environment and risk management Every business needs to be responsive to its competitive and regulatory environment.
Understanding the issues that could have an impact on our business is vital for good risk management and long-term commercial success.
External environment Governmental regulation The risks identified cascade up Some of the markets in which through functional and divisional Competition Tate & Lyle operates are subject to levels to the Group Executive The starch industry, within which significant influence from legislation Committee.
This culminates in our food and industrial ingredients or regulation.
In Europe, the main the identification of the Groups key businesses compete, is concentrated regulations and legislation relevant business, financial, operational and around a small number of large to Tate & Lyle are the EU Sugar compliance risks with associated participants who operate in many Regime, which affects our Sugars action plans and controls to mitigate different application areas, including and Food & Industrial Ingredients, them where possible and to the food, beverage, paper and Europe businesses.
More information extent deemed appropriate after pharmaceuticals.
The USA accounts on the impact of the reform of the assessing the costs and benefits.
for over half of global starch EU Sugar Regime is given on Further details of the risk production.
Our main competitors pages 46 and 47.
In the USA, the management process are on in the USA for corn wet milling and main regulation is the Renewable page 68 and the key risks and starch-based products are Archer Fuel Standard programme, which uncertainties identified as part of Daniels Midland Company ADM, requires that gasoline sold contains this process, together with some Corn Products International and a minimum volume of fuel from of the mitigating actions that we are Cargill.
National Starch part of Akzo renewable sources, and affects our taking, are listed on pages 28 to 30.
Nobel N. V. is another competitor, Food & Industrial Ingredients, The Group is exposed to a number particularly in relation to some Americas business.
of other risks, some of which may higher-value modified food and have a material impact on its industrial starches, as is Penford Risk management results.
It is not possible to identify Corporation in the North American Tate & Lyle could be affected or anticipate every risk that may paper starch industry.
In Europe by a number of risks, which may affect the Group, some of which our main competitors in the starch have a material adverse effect may not be known or may not have industry are Cargill, Syral part of on our reputation, operations been assessed.
Our overall success Tereos and Roquette Frres.
as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed Competition for our European sugar The Groups enterprise-wide risk in different economic, social and business comes mainly from British management and reporting process political environments and to Sugar a subsidiary of Associated helps Group management to manage and to mitigate British Foods plc, Sdzucker, identify, assess and mitigate risk.
The main The process involves the competitors for our food ingredients identification and prioritisation of businesses are Cargill, Danisco, key risks, together with associated Kerry and National Starch.
controls and plans for mitigation, through an ongoing programme of workshops, facilitated by the risk management function.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 27 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 12 6 09 16:28 Page 28 What we do External environment and risk management continued Key risks We ensure that product quality Mitigating actions and safety are monitored at We have regulatory managers Failure to act safely and to each stage of production, and who monitor changes in maintain the continued safe we have thorough product safety legislation and develop action operation of our facilities could policies and procedures in place plans to deal with such changes.
have a detrimental impact on to prevent contamination.
These This team is supplemented by a Tate & Lyles operations safety policies and procedures worldwide network of external are carefully followed and consultants who provide quarterly The safety of our employees, rigorously enforced.
reports on regulatory change contractors, suppliers, the and how it affects the Group.
communities in which we operate Our success depends upon our Our legal teams maintain and the consumers of our products, employees and the recruitment compliance policies in areas such is of paramount importance to and retention of key personnel as antitrust, money laundering Tate & Lyle.
Around the world the and anti-corruption laws and Group is subject to laws, regulations, Central to the success of provide ongoing training to rules and ordinances relating to Tate & Lyle is the performance, employees as needed.
health, safety and the environment, knowledge and skill-sets of our including pollution.
The Groups employees around the world.
Fluctuations in prices, offtake revenues depend on the continued We recognise the need to attract, and availability of raw materials, operation of our various manufacturing integrate and retain the talent energy, freight and other operating facilities, and the consistent required to fulfil our ambitions and inputs may affect our margins production of finished products that we understand the negative impact meet our customers specifications.
on results that could arise from an All of our finished products are The operation of our plants involves inability to retain key knowledge and derived from renewable agricultural many risks, including the failure adequately plan for succession.
All of these materials or sub-standard performance of are subject to fluctuations in price equipment, the improper installation Mitigating actions due to factors such as harvest and or operation of equipment and Tate & Lyles remuneration weather conditions, crop disease, natural disasters.
policies are designed to attract, crop yields, alternative crops and retain and reward employees by-product values.
Energy usage in Mitigating actions with the ability and experience our production facilities represents We have health and safety to execute the Groups strategy.
one of our main production costs.
policies and procedures in place We have developed the In some cases, due to the basis for at all our facilities and employ Tate & Lyle People Strategy pricing in our sales contracts, or dedicated staff at all locations to provide opportunities for our due to competitive markets, we to ensure that these policies employees to develop and grow may not be able to pass on to our are understood, measured and in their roles and meet new customers the full amount of raw embedded.
The Board reviews challenges as their careers material price increases or higher the Groups safety performance progress for more details energy, freight or other operating and policies annually.
see page 26. costs, which could also affect Our commitment to environmental contract offtake, and this could performance runs throughout the Non-compliance with legislation reduce our profitability.
Group and the Board reviews our can lead to financial and environmental performance and reputational damage Mitigating actions policy every year.
We maintain We aim to build strategic The Group is aware of the environmental management relationships with our suppliers importance of complying with systems at our production to ensure we have a secure all applicable legislation affecting facilities and work closely with supply of raw materials.
our business activities and of the local environmental agencies potential financial impact and to ensure we meet at least the damage to reputation that can requisite standards.
We also result from any breach.
employ specialist consultants when required.
28 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 12 6 09 16:28 Page 29 We seek to operate a balanced Mitigating actions We may not be able to protect portfolio of supply and tolling We have an internal R&D team our intellectual property contracts with our customers in of around 280 people who work Our commercial success depends, order to manage the balance of to produce innovations in product in part, on obtaining and raw material prices and product development, applications, maintaining patent protection sales prices and volume risks.
manufacturing technology on certain of our products and Multiple source supply and customer services.
technology, and successfully agreements are in place for defending these patents against key ingredient supplies.
Failure to identify important third-party challenge or Raw material and energy consumer trends and or counter infringements.
Where we choose purchasing policies govern negative perceptions of the not to prosecute patent protection, our actions in this area and also Groups products it is important that we protect our provide security of supply.
We recognise the risks associated confidential information and We use derivatives, where with falling behind the curve where proprietary trade secrets.
Others available, to hedge our exposure emerging dietary trends are may independently develop to movements in the future concerned, as well as not being fully technologies similar to ours prices of commodities.
prepared to counter unexpected or independently duplicate our and unfounded negative publicity technologies.
Our patents may Competitors may achieve in relation to our product offering.
expire or remain in existence significant competitive advantage for only a short period following through technological step change Mitigating actions commercialisation.
This would or higher service levels Our technical sales and R&D reduce or eliminate any advantage If our competitors were able to teams work closely with our of those patents.
We may face identify, develop and introduce customers and advisors to litigation to assert claims of on a commercial basis a major identify emerging trends.
infringement, enforce our patents, technological step change, such Our investment is directed protect our trade secrets or knowas significantly improving the towards ensuring our operations how, or determine the scope and efficiency of the production process are equipped to satisfy validity of our proprietary rights or and lowering costs and thereby product demand.
the proprietary rights of others.
commoditising products or Our marketing departments carry We may be unable to enforce our introducing a new product with out consumer-facing research patents or intellectual property or better functionality, we may not annually to ensure they are aware otherwise protect our proprietary be able to introduce a comparable of consumers needs and rights, which could have a material change.
Similarly, we must ensure expectations.
adverse effect on our business, we at least match or exceed Through our R&D and regulatory financial condition and results competitors service and quality teams, we ensure we are able of operations.
If we cannot compete to substantiate relevant claims effectively with such innovation or relating to products as required Mitigating actions service levels, our sales and by legislation and the needs Our Group legal department profitability could decline.
monitors all our patents and Our media relations department is supported by expert patent monitors the Groups press lawyers, and we will take action coverage and has action plans to where it is deemed necessary.
deal with any negative publicity.
Our R&D teams operate an organised and secure process for the identification and recording of innovations, new discoveries, trade secrets and potential patentable ideas, with appropriate safeguards to ensure that the confidentiality of that information is maintained.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 29 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 12 6 09 16:28 Page 30 What we do External environment and risk management continued Failure to manage capital Mitigating actions Mitigating actions expenditure and working capital The Group has authorisation Procedures are in place to during the current period of policies in place and ensures monitor the Groups financial uncertainty and global that key tasks are segregated performance and communicate economic crisis to safeguard assets.
with the market via regular The Group has detailed internal trading updates.
The Group recognises the Finance and Capital Expenditure The investor relations department, importance of managing our Manuals which set out the supported by external advisors, finances within strictly controlled procedures to be followed.
ensures that all communications parameters, particularly when The Board monitors the financial are timely, clear and consistent external financial conditions are performance of the Group via and that they comply with uncertain and highly changeable.
monthly reports and a regular regulatory and legislative forecasting process.
Mitigating actions The Chief Executive and Group Tate & Lyle has capital Finance Director undertake Exchange rate fluctuations expenditure procedures in detailed quarterly business and could create earnings and balance place to control and monitor the financial reviews.
sheet volatility allocation and spend of capital.
Significant projects are approved The Group operates in many As a public company Tate & Lyle and monitored by the Board.
different countries and is subject must enunciate a clear strategic The Groups debt and working to currency fluctuations arising vision as well as provide accurate capital levels are constantly on transactional foreign currency and timely information to the monitored and reported exposures and the translation of market to deliver long-term monthly to the Board.
For shareholder value example, a weakening of the US Failure to maintain an effective The share price on the stock market dollar and the euro against sterling system of internal financial is based on the expectations of a would have a negative impact on controls could lead to financial wide variety of market participants the net assets and shareholders irregularities and loss such as analysts, brokers, funds reported in sterling.
investment funds and other Without effective internal financial investors.
Media stories or rumours Mitigating actions controls, Tate & Lyle could be can influence these expectations.
The Group internal Finance exposed to financial irregularities Failure to maintain a clear vision Manual sets out the procedures and losses from acts which could of the business strategy, failure to be followed.
have a significant impact on the to provide accurate and timely We borrow in different foreign ability of the business to operate.
information, failure to meet Group currencies, principally US dollars, These range from safeguarding targets, or failure to respond in an so as to provide a partial match the assets of the business to the appropriate way could lead to for the Groups major foreign accuracy and reliability of our uncertainty and volatility in the currency assets.
share price and the erosion We have adjusted the banking of shareholder value.
covenants for the US$1 billion Revolving Credit Facility to eliminate the distortion of foreign exchange volatility.
30 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 12 6 09 16:28 Page 31 This section sets out the results of the Group and the financial and operational performance of each division for the year ended 31 March 2009.
How we performed 32 Group financial results 36 Divisional performance 36 Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas 40 Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe 44 Sugars 48 Sucralose 52 Other financial information Managing a starch packing line Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 31 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
