qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 08:38 Page 11 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 11 Business Review Governance Statements Directors Report: Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Description of risk Relevance to strategy Impact Mitigation Compliance The agreement to amend Our covenants include As the landbank is a We monitor the cash with financial our debt facilities reached limits on the level of new long term asset, any position closely through and operational in April 2009 includes a land spend during 2010, requirement to pay weekly and monthly covenants number of financial and 2011 and 2012 and also back debt at short forecasts.
specify the amount of notice could lead to a acquisitions are only Breach of these cash to be generated requirement to sell assets approved where forecasts covenants could, from the business at on unfavourable terms, show sufficient headroom in certain circumstances, each quarterly test date.
or potentially cause the against the covenant.
lead to a requirement business to fail if sufficient The covenant levels These requirements to repay debt funding funds cannot be raised.
were set in negotiation will be a consideration in its entirety.
with our debt holders in in business decisions, early 2009 on the basis of including new land the forecasts at that time.
acquisitions and new outlet openings.
Description of risk Relevance to strategy Impact Mitigation Economic Demand for our homes The majority of the homes The global economy has Our local teams select and market can be adversely affected that we build are sold shown greater stability the locations and home environment by weakness in the wider to individual purchasers during 2009.
However, designs that best meet economy.
This includes who take on significant credit availability and customer demand.
factors such as mortgages to finance consumer confidence We continue to evaluate unemployment levels, their purchase.
remain below normal new outlet openings on interest rates and the levels.
As a result, the the basis of local market As such, customer demand availability of credit, level of demand for new conditions and regularly is extremely sensitive to which are outside of housing continues to be review the pricing and economic conditions.
significantly reduced, incentives that we offer.
impacting both profitability We also minimise the and cash generation.
level of speculative build that we undertake.
Description of risk Relevance to strategy Impact Mitigation Government Governments issue In addition to our short Inability to obtain suitable We consult with the UK regulations and a wide variety of term landbank, we have consents could impact Government on upcoming planning policy requirements for new a strategic landbank of on the number or type of legislation, both directly housing, particularly in 84,865 potential plots homes that we are able and as a member of the UK, covering areas in the UK.
We could also industry groups, to such as design, quality, be required to fund higher highlight potential issues.
Our ability to obtain sustainability and than anticipated levels of At a local level our land the planning permission product mix.
planning obligations, or specialists work closely required to build homes incur additional costs to with the relevant planning The UK General Election on this land is dependent meet increased regulatory authorities and structure in 2010 could lead to a on our ability to meet the requirements.
All of these land purchase agreements change of Government relevant regulatory and would have a detrimental to mitigate such risk.
and potentially changes planning requirements.
impact on the contribution to these regulations.
Description of risk Relevance to strategy Impact Mitigation Land Purchasing land that is Land is the major raw Purchasing poor quality We operate an investment purchasing poor quality or mis-priced material for the Group, or mis-priced land would appraisal process for land or purchasing land in but the availability of have a detrimental impact purchases, which ensures insufficient quantity.
good quality land at on our profitability.
that such projects are an attractive price Purchasing insufficient subject to appropriate is currently scarce.
land would prevent the review and authorisation Group from delivering dependent on the Purchasing land of budgeted future home proposed scale the appropriate quality completions and lead of expenditure.
on attractive terms will to ashortfall in enhance the Groups anticipated performance.
ability to deliver strong profit growth as housing markets recover.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 08:38 Page 12 12 Directors Report: Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Description of risk Relevance to strategy Impact Mitigation Availability of The difficult operating In order to optimise our If our sub-contractors We vet all suppliers prior sub-contractors environment over the build cost efficiency, whilst are not able to recruit to working with them last two years has retaining the flexibility to sufficient numbers of to ensure that they meet resulted in the failure commence work on new skilled employees, our our requirements for of some sub-contractors sites as market conditions developments may suffer environmental impact, businesses.
In addition, allow, the vast majority from delays or quality health and safety, quality reduced levels of of work carried out on issues, leading to reduced and financial stability.
homebuilding have led site is performed by levels of customer We also work to address to some skilled tradesmen sub-contractors.
Lack of the skills shortage in leaving the industry to take skilled sub-contractors the industry through jobs in other sectors.
could also result in higher apprenticeship schemes levels of waste being and the Construction produced from our sites.
Description of risk Relevance to strategy Impact Mitigation Site safety Building sites are Our operations require a In addition to the We have a comprehensive inherently dangerous large number of people, potentially tragic personal HSE management places and our ranging from employees impact of an accident system, which is integral management of health and sub-contractors to on site, there is potential to our business.
This is and safety issues is of customers and their for legal proceedings, supported by policies paramount importance families, to visit our sites financial penalties, and procedures to ensure to us.
We want all of reputational damage that we live up to our these people to go home and delay to the intention of providing at the end of the day safe sites progress.
a safe and healthy and uninjured.
Description of risk Relevance to strategy Impact Mitigation Construction Construction work can We build homes in the Construction delays We monitor both cost and and cost be subject to delays UK, US, Canada, Spain can result in additional risk closely throughout the management and additional cost for and Gibraltar on a wide costs to get the build life of a project from initial a variety of reasons.
programme back on viability assessment to These include adverse Potential issues range schedule, lead to quality post completion review.
ground conditions, from hurricanes in Florida issues and have an This is achieved through environmental to extreme cold in Ontario adverse impact on the use of detailed risk considerations and from ground customer satisfaction.
registers and regular site and adverse contamination to the valuations, which are Additional costs arising weather conditions.
presence of protected reviewed and approved from the construction wildlife species.
process may have an adverse impact on profit.
Description of risk Relevance to strategy Impact Mitigation Ability to Recruiting employees The housebuilding Not having the right We monitor employee attract and with inadequate skills process, from land teams in place could lead turnover levels on a monthly retain high or in insufficient numbers, and planning through to delays, quality issues, basis and conduct exit calibre or not being able to retain construction to sales reduced sales levels, interviews, as appropriate, key staff.
and customer care, poor customer care to identify any areas employees requires significant input and reduced profitability.
We from skilled people to benchmark our remuneration deliver quality homes levels against the industry, to our customers.
have succession plans in place for key roles within The challenging market the Group and hold regular conditions have meant that development reviews to we have had to reduce our identify training requirements.
number of employees across the Group.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
