RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 38 Risks and uncertainties Introduction Risk is an accepted part of doing business.
the real on the basis of past experience.
tpFs credit card receivables and personal challenge for any business is to identify the principal risks it faces and to loan portfolio may be subject to changes in credit quality, due to a general develop and monitor appropriate controls.
a successful risk management deterioration in economic conditions or by failures in its credit assessment process balances risks and rewards and relies on a sound judgement of process, which could adversely impact its ability to recover amounts due.
Furthermore, there is significant competition in the financial services industry, which could adversely affect tpFs market share and profitability.
the Board has overall responsibility for risk management and internal legal developments, changes in legal interpretation or precedent, and control within the context of achieving the groups objectives.
our process changes in public policy may result in new risks emerging in addition to for identifying and managing risks is set out in more detail from page 47 those anticipated.
of the corporate governance section of this annual Report and Financial statements.
the key risks faced by the group and relevant mitigating Because tpF is an Fsa-regulated entity, its treasury function is run factors are set out below.
independently from the rest of the group.
tpFs treasury risks include, in particular, liquidity risk and interest rate risk in particular, in the interest rate Business strategy if our strategy follows the wrong direction or is not margin realised between lending and borrowing costs.
tpF is also subject effectively communicated then the business may suffer.
We need to to the risk of unexpected losses arising from operational failure, whether as understand and properly manage strategic risk in order to deliver longa result of human error, systems failures, fraud or inadequate controls.
term growth for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
our strategy is based on five elements: to become a successful international retailer, to grow the Operational threats and performance risk in the business there is a core UK business, be as strong in non-food as in food, develop retailing risk that our business may not deliver the stated strategy in full, particularly services and put the community at the heart of what we do.
pursuit of this since, like all retailers, the business is susceptible to economic downturn five-part strategy has allowed the business to diversify and, at a strategic that could affect consumer spending.
the continuing acquisition and level, diversification and pursuit of growth in emerging markets have the development of property sites also forms an intrinsic part of our strategy effect of reducing overall risk by avoiding reliance on a small number of and this carries inherent risks.
However, by its very nature, diversification also introduces new risks to be managed in areas of the business that are less mature and We try to deliver what customers want better than our competitors by less fully understood.
understanding and responding to their behaviour.
all of our business units have stretching targets based on the steering Wheel and the performance to ensure the group continues to pursue the right strategy, the Board of business units is monitored continually and reported regularly to the discusses strategic issues at every Board meeting, and dedicates two full Board.
We manage the acquisition and development of our property days a year to reviewing the groups strategy.
the executive committee assets carefully.
We consider and assess in detail every site at each stage also holds specific sessions to discuss strategy on a regular basis.
We have of acquisition and development and ensure that relevant action is taken structured programmes for engaging with all our stakeholders including to minimise any risks.
customers, employees, investors, suppliers, government, media and non-governmental organisations.
We also invest significant resources in Competition and consolidation the retail industry is highly competitive.
ensuring our strategy is communicated well and understood by the parties the group competes with a wide variety of retailers of varying sizes and who are key to delivering it.
the business operates a steering Wheel faces increased competition from UK retailers as well as international a balanced scorecard process whereby we set goals for different areas of operators in the UK and overseas.
the business and assess our overall progress on a quarterly basis in all countries and significant business units such as Dotcom to help manage Failure to compete with competitors on areas including price, product performance and deliver business strategy.
range, quality and service could have an adverse effect on the groups financial results.
Financial strategy and Group treasury risk the main financial risks of the group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs, We aim to have a broad appeal in price, range and store format in a way the risk of default by counterparties to financial transactions, and that allows us to compete in different markets.
We track performance fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
the risks associated against a range of measures that customers tell us are critical to their with operating tesco personal Finance are covered under Financial shopping trip experience and we constantly monitor customer perceptions services risks below.
of ourselves and our competitors to ensure we can respond quickly if we need to.
the treasury function is mandated by the Board to manage the financial risks that arise in relation to underlying business needs.
the function has People capabilities our greatest asset is our employees.
it is critical to clear policies and operating parameters, and its activities are routinely our success to attract, retain, develop and motivate the best people with reviewed and audited.
the function does not operate as a profit centre the right capabilities at all levels of operations.
We review our people and the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.
policies regularly and are committed to investing in training and a description of the role of the Finance committee and internal and development and incentives for our people.
our talent planning process external audit is set out in the corporate governance section on page 48. helps individuals achieve their full potential.
We also carry out succession planning to ensure that the needs of the business going forward are Financial services risks through tesco personal Finance plc formerly considered and provided for.
there are clear processes for understanding tesco personal Finance group limited tpF, the group is subject to and responding to employees needs through our people matters group, certain risks relating to the personal financial services industry in the UK.
staff surveys, regular performance reviews, involvement of trade unions in relevant markets and regular communication of business developments.
tpF is subject to significant legislative and regulatory oversight.
in particular, tpF is subject to supervision by the Financial services authority Reputational risk as the largest retailer in the UK, expectations of the Fsa, which has substantial powers of intervention, and is required to group are high.
Failure to protect the groups reputation and brand could satisfy certain capital adequacy and liquidity ratios.
if tpF is unable or fails lead to a loss of trust and confidence.
this could result in a decline in the to satisfy these ratios in the future, it could lose its licence and, consequently, customer base and affect the ability to recruit and retain good people.
its ability to transact business.
like other companies we must consider potential threats to our reputation tpF is subject to various risks associated with the provision of financial and the consequences of reputational damage.
emotional loyalty to the services.
in relation to its insurance business, tpF may experience a tesco brand has helped us diversify into new areas like retail services and concentration of risks from natural or man-made disasters.
in addition, non-food and we recognise the commercial imperative to do the right market conditions may not allow tpF to purchase the amount of thing for all our stakeholders and avoid the loss of such loyalty.
the tesco re-insurance it considers necessary on terms it considers acceptable.
values are embedded in the way we do business at every level and our actual claims may exceed the claims provisions that have been made code of ethics guides our behaviour in our dealings with customers, employees and suppliers.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009 RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 39 We engage with stakeholders in every sphere to take into account their multi-stakeholder representatives on our audits to improve workforce views and we try to ensure our strategy reflects them.
the launch of the engagement and enable activists to see and feedback on our approach.
community plan in 2006 has demonstrated our commitment to tackling We work with suppliers to identify any problems and, where they exist, a wide range of societal and environmental issues.
We have high level support them in taking action to improve standards for their workers.
committees, including the executive committee, corporate Responsibility committee and compliance committee, to help guide and monitor We have also invested heavily in building the labour standards capabilities our policies.
of our suppliers and our own commercial teams in the last year, including rolling out extensive training, to help them identify and avoid issues before Environmental risks our key environmental risks are related to they arise.
We also work with businesses, governments, non-governmental minimising energy usage in stores and transportation, waste management organisations ngos and others to tackle complex and systemic problems and our ability to respond to consumer concerns in this area.
We develop that we cannot solve on our own.
as well as having a key role in the eti we environmental policy through engaging with key stakeholders and experts also work closely with the global social compliance programme and other in this field to achieve sustainable growth and minimise our environmental groups in specific industries or regions.
the groups approach is brought together in a consistent manner by the corporate Responsibility committee.
Fraud and compliance as the business grows in size and geographical spread, the risk of occurrence of fraudulent behaviour by our employees policy is reviewed regularly by the compliance committee and corporate increases.
Whilst the vast majority of our staff are completely honest, there Responsibility committee.
We recognise the opportunities for competitive remains the potential for fraud and other dishonest activity at all levels of advantage through energy efficiency and look for continuous the business from the shop floor to senior management.
improvement through innovations and better ways to help customers act responsibly towards the environment.
the group takes extensive steps to reduce this risk.
Relevant accounting and other procedures and controls at all levels are clearly set out and Product safety the safety and quality of our products is of paramount audited across the business to reduce the risk of fraud.
the group gives importance to tesco as well as being essential for maintaining customer clear guidance on behaviour to employees through the tesco values and trust and confidence.
a breach in confidence could affect the size of our the code of ethics.
internal audit undertakes detailed investigations into customer base and hence financial results.
all areas of the business and highlights its findings to the audit committee.
the compliance committee formulates and monitors the implementation We have detailed and established procedures for ensuring product of, and compliance with appropriate policies on key areas of ethical integrity at all times, especially for our own-label products.
there are behaviour, including fraud.
strict product safety processes and regular management reports.
We work in partnership with suppliers to ensure mutual understanding of Property We have stretching targets for delivering new space in the the standards required.
We also monitor developments in areas such as UK and overseas, and may face challenges in finding suitable sites and health, safety and nutrition in order to respond appropriately to changing obtaining planning or other consents to enable sites to be acquired and customer trends and new legislation.
We have clear processes for crisis developed.
the complexity of many of our property developments is management, pulling together expert teams should we need to respond increasing, especially the growing number of mixed-use schemes.
We also have to comply with design and construction standards which vary significantly from country to country.
Health and safety risks While the safety of our staff and customers is of the utmost importance to us, if we are unable to provide safe environments our property acquisition committees and other related committees in for our staff and customers this could lead to injuries or loss of life.
the UK, europe, asia and the Us closely control all aspects of the property acquisition, planning and construction processes, to ensure that applicable We operate stringent health and safety processes in line with best practice standards are met and financial risks are minimised.
our group and in our stores, distribution centres and offices, which are monitored and country compliance committees also monitor compliance with applicable audited regularly.
Kpis for preventing health and safety incidents form an legal and regulatory requirements in all aspects of our property activities.
intrinsic part of our steering Wheels across the business, and performance against these Kpis is reported quarterly.
our group compliance Non-food risks as the proportion of our business represented by committee and the compliance committees in our international businesses non-food products increases, there is a risk that a downturn in consumer monitor the level of compliance with health and safety laws and our confidence may affect the level of demand for products which consumers internal policies on a regular basis.
Ethical risks in the supply chain millions of people around the world We make every effort to ensure that our non-food products are work for direct suppliers to tesco and the supply chain is made of complex competitively priced to offer a broad range of products ranging from relationships from individual farmers and growers through to processors, value to the luxury end of the market, in order to cater for the needs manufacturers and distributors.
at the heart of our values is our belief that of as wide a range of customers as possible.
we should treat people as we like to be treated and we have a responsibility to help workers in our supply chain enjoy fair labour standards.
We IT systems and infrastructure the business is dependent on efficient therefore require our suppliers to meet strict criteria on labour standards, information technology it systems.
any significant failure in the it and as a founder member of the ethical trading initiative eti we expect processes of our retail operations e. g. barcode scanning or supply chain all our suppliers to follow the eti base code and guarantee their workers logistics would impact our ability to trade.
We recognise the essential role the rights set out within it.
there is, however, a risk that any part of the that it plays across our operations in allowing us to trade efficiently and supply chain might not adhere to these high standards.
so that we can achieve commercial advantage through implementing it innovations that improve the shopping trip for customers and make life to minimise this risk we only work with suppliers who can demonstrate easier for employees.
We have extensive controls in place to maintain the that they are committed to the eti code and share our values.
We use integrity and efficiency of our it infrastructure and we share systems from supplier ethical Data exchange seDex to carry out risk assessment of all across our international operations to ensure consistency of delivery.
our direct suppliers and all medium and high-risk suppliers must undergo an extensive, independent ethical audit.
We continue to operate a comprehensive programme of audit improvements, including more unannounced audits, a trading Fairly strategy and an industry-leading auditor Recognition programme.
We have also sought to involve more To find out more go to www.
com annualreport09 Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009
