34 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Tomkins operates globally in a variety of markets and is affected by a number of risks inherent in its activities.
Business risk can be considered either as downside risk the risk that something can go wrong and result in a financial loss or exposure or volatility risk the risk associated with uncertainty, meaning there may be an opportunity for financial gain as well as the potential for loss.
We outline below the risks and uncertainties that the Board believes have the greatest potential to affect the Groups results or financial position.
We have not listed these risks in any order of priority.
Details of the Groups risk management procedures are set out under the heading Internal control on page 48.
Additional risks not currently known to us, or risks that currently we do not regard as significant, could also have a material adverse effect on our results or financial position.
Our analysis of our principal risks and uncertainties should, therefore, be read in conjunction with the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements set out on the inside front cover.
When applying the Groups accounting policies, management must make assumptions and estimates about the future that may differ from actual outcomes.
We discuss the key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the Groups assets and liabilities in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation strategy Risks associated One of our strategic objectives is to reshape our All investment and divestment with acquisitions portfolio by making strategic bolt-on acquisitions of projects are subject to a detailed and disposals complementary businesses to expand our product project proposal process.
The Board portfolio and geographic presence and by disposing identifies divestment targets, timing of non-core businesses.
and values in the context of the existing market conditions and the Acquisitions and disposals, particularly investments Groups portfolio.
A rigorous, in emerging markets, involve legal, economic and prescribed due diligence process is political risks.
We also encounter risks in the undertaken by an experienced team selection of appropriate investment and disposal on all potential acquisitions.
We targets, execution of the transactions, integration prepare and execute formal of acquired businesses and a risk that we may not integration plans to maximise the generate the anticipated returns and savings from synergies arising on acquisitions.
Risks inherent in We continue to expand our activities in the We focus on the financial operating in high-growth potential emerging markets of Eastern performance of our operations in emerging Europe, Asia, the Middle East and South and Central emerging markets and closely economies America.
We face inherent risks in operating in these monitor their social, political, markets that include, but are not limited to, economic commercial and regulatory and political instability, restrictive or complex laws environments to ensure that we are and regulations, volatility in currency exchange rates, able to respond rapidly to protect protection of intellectual property and strong our people and our businesses.
competition from companies that are already established in these markets.
If we are unable to assess adequately these risks and develop and execute appropriate mitigating strategies, we may have to decline growth opportunities which may adversely impact the Groups sales, profitability and cash flows.
Risks arising from During 2009, due largely to the efforts of national Our policy is to reduce financing risk restrictions on governments, credit has become more readily available by diversifying our funding sources the availability to companies, such as Tomkins, that have investment and by staggering the maturity of of credit grade credit ratings.
However, many companies our borrowings.
We aim to retain continue to find it difficult to obtain or renew sufficient liquidity to maintain our borrowing facilities on  terms.
financial flexibility and to preserve our investment grade credit ratings.
We monitor our credit ratings closely and maintain a regular dialogue with the ratings agencies.
Our funding Our strategy Performance 35 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation strategy Risks arising from We finance our business principally through equity We monitor borrowing facilities restrictions on and bank and other borrowings.
We currently have against forecast requirements and the availability considerable headroom under our committed take timely action to put in place, of credit borrowing facilities and there is no immediate need renew or replace credit lines.
During continued for us to renew or replace any of our facilities.
We 2009, for example, we took early are mindful, however, that, if our access to credit was action to extend our committed once again to become restricted, we may have to borrowing facilities by putting in accept less favourable terms when we come to place a $450 million forward-start renew or replace our facilities.
multi-currency revolving credit facility that will provide us with Failure to obtain sufficient funding to meet our liquidity sufficient borrowing capacity when requirements may result in our losing business the existing 400 million facility opportunities or in the curtailment of capital spending, expires in August 2010. research and development and other important strategic programmes.
We mitigate credit risk by operating strict credit control procedures.
Restrictions on the availability of credit may also restrict Before accepting any new customer, the reshaping of our portfolio because reduced access we assess the customers to credit may adversely impact the ability of both creditworthiness and establish an ourselves and potential buyers to finance the applicable credit limit.
Credit limits acquisition of businesses.
are reviewed on a regular basis.
If we were unable to replace or renew our borrowing Before accepting a new supplier, we facilities as they expire, there may be a threat to the operate a detailed approval process Groups status as a going concern.
If we were able to which includes an assessment of the obtain funding only on less favourable terms, there potential suppliers financial may be an adverse impact on the Groups profitability strength.
Where possible, we aim and cash flows.
not to source critical inputs from a single supplier and we regularly Restrictions on the availability of credit may cause update our assessment of the some of our customers to be slower in settling the financial strength of our critical amounts that they owe to us, thereby reducing our suppliers.
own liquidity or, indeed, may cause them to be unable to pay the amounts that they owe to us.
Restrictions on the availability of credit also increase the risk that some of our suppliers may fail, which could cause disruption in the supply of critical inputs to our manufacturing processes.
If there were any interruption in the supply of our products to any of our customers, we may lose sales to those customers and there would be the risk that some of them would migrate to other suppliers.
Risks associated Demand for our products is driven directly or indirectly Our businesses responded with the economic by consumer demand and preferences.
Our markets aggressively to the deteriorating downturn and tend to be cyclical and the recent decline in asset prices, economic conditions, through plant uncertainty about limitations on the availability of credit and economic rationalisations, cost base reduction the timing of the uncertainty have eroded market confidence and driven initiatives and strategic sourcing recovery down consumer spending in a number of our programmes.
Our businesses have end markets.
also progressed initiatives to move into complementary markets, to Despite recent signs of improvement in global extend their service offerings and economies, it is not yet clear whether the worst of to develop green products and the economic crisis is over and, even if it is, growth technologies, in an effort to in many of our end markets is likely to be slow, counteract reduced demand in their adversely affecting the demand for our products, more traditional end markets.
placing pressure on our prices and margins and resulting in further customer consolidation.
We expect these pressures will continue to be particularly acute in our residential, commercial construction and automotive OE markets.
Our markets Our funding 36 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation strategy Risks associated In 2009, the Group derived 9% of its sales from We constantly monitor our financial with the major General Motors, Ford and Chrysler.
For some time, exposure to the major US US automotive the global automotive industry has been characterised automotive manufacturers and have manufacturers by overcapacity and fierce competition.
In recent developed a number of initiatives to years, the Detroit Three have seen a decline in their minimise the impact on our market share of vehicle sales, particularly in North businesses in the event of a collapse America, due to Asian and European automobile of one or more of these customers.
manufacturers increasing their presence and the We continue to follow a preference of customers for fuel-efficient vehicles.
disciplined approach to investment North American vehicle production declined sharply in technology and production in from 15.1 million in 2007 to 12.6 million in 2008 support of the more competitive and to 8.6 million in 2009.
As a consequence, the vehicle platforms that are being Detroit Three have suffered financial hardship and developed by our customers, have been the subject of considerable uncertainty particularly those delivering GM and Chrysler went through bankruptcy and improved fuel efficiency and bail out by the US government in 2009.
Our businesses capacity of the Detroit Three in North America has place emphasis not only on been severely cut back and any recovery in sales may expansion within our existing take some years as they replace their vehicle platforms.
markets, but also into complementary North American vehicle production is expected to and other new markets in order to recover only slightly to 10.0-10.5 million units diversify further our customer base.
Although, in recent years, the proportion of the Groups sales derived from the major US automotive manufacturers has progressively declined, they remain important to our success.
Any further prolonged reduction in their activity levels may adversely affect the Groups sales and profitability and may cause the impairment of certain of the Groups productive assets that are used to supply these customers.
Risk of increased Many of our end markets are highly competitive and We respond to competitive competition competitive pressures have increased during the pressures through investment in from low-cost economic downturn as more suppliers have shown low-cost regions, lean initiatives and producers a willingness to sacrifice margin in order to maintain enhancing our sourcing strategies.
Additionally, customers continue to We are also rationalising our expand their sourcing of products by looking to customer base to target those regions that enjoy economic advantages such as customers who value the quality, lower labour costs, cheaper raw materials or export innovation and service that subsidies.
If we are unable to continue to provide differentiate us from many of our technologically superior or better quality products low-cost competitors.
or to match the prices of low-cost suppliers, there is a risk that customers will switch to those suppliers, causing the Group to lose market share with the consequent reductions in sales and margins.
Our markets Performance 37 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation strategy Risks associated Steel, aluminium, rubber and rubber-based materials We manage these risks through a with the cost and are some of the key inputs needed in many of our combination of multiple-source and availability of products.
Energy is another significant part of the geographically diverse procurement production inputs Groups costs, affecting both production and policies, strategic customer pricing distribution costs.
If prices of these and other inputs reviews, specific business continuity increase and we are unable to pass these increases plans and expanded investment in on to customers, there is a risk that our margins low-cost countries.
may not be sustained and profitability may be adversely affected.
During 2009, we have seen both significant increases and declines in the prices of many inputs.
If such price volatility were to continue, it may hinder accurate forecasting and costing and make it difficult to pass cost increases on to customers.
Our businesses compete globally for key production inputs.
The availability of certain raw materials, energy or other key inputs may be disrupted by any number of geopolitical factors.
Such disruptions may require additional capital or operating expenditure by the Group or forced reductions in its production volumes.
Financial distress of key suppliers as a result of increasing prices, declining demand and a lack of available financing may lead to disruption in the supply of inputs which may negatively affect the Groups production and profitability.
Risk of product Due to the nature of our products, we face an We seek to minimise these risks by liability claims inherent risk of product liability claims if failure results using thorough screening in any claim for injury or consequential loss.
Litigation procedures for new suppliers, is inherently unpredictable and these claims, implementing rigorous quality regardless of their outcome, may be costly, divert programmes in our plants, management attention and adversely affect our particularly for inbound materials, reputation.
Supplier consolidation and the increase in and by ceasing to produce products low-cost country sourcing may increase the likelihood that are particularly likely to attract of receiving defective materials, thereby increasing the litigation.
risk of product failure and resulting liability claims.
Risk that our We believe that our future success depends in large We use formalised succession human resources measure on our ability to retain and develop our planning, 360 degree performance strategies may not people.
If we are unable to identify, attract and retain reviews, management internships be effective excellent non-management, management and and competitive compensation executive talent, we may not be able to implement schemes that align the interests of effectively our business strategies, or we may our managers with those of our experience delays in the development and production shareholders.
Specific management of, or face difficulty in selling, our products training is provided through Tomkins and services.
College, the Groups executive development programme presented in partnership with the highly regarded Indiana University School of Business.
