Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 29.
Financial Instruments continued includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the currency of the lender or the borrower.
A positive number below indicates an increase in profit and other equity where the Sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency.
For a 10% weakening of the functional currency against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other equity, and the balances below would be negative.
There has not been any significant change in the groups sensitivity to foreign currency during the year.
j Interest rate risk management The group is exposed to interest rate risk as it has a floating interest rate bank loan and receives interest on its cash and cash equivalent balances.
The risk is managed by the group by maintaining sufficient cash balances to offset any exposure on the bank loan.
The groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
k Interest rate sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 0.5% increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the groups: profit for the year ended 31 December 2009 would decrease increase by $0.8 million 2008: decrease increase by $0.2 million.
This is mainly attributable to the groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings: and other equity reserves would be unaffected by the change in either year.
The groups sensitivity to interest rates has increased during the current period due to the additional drawdown in relation to the acquisition of Interwoven, Inc. see note 24. l Other price risks The group is exposed to equity price risks arising from equity investments.
The shares included above represent investments in listed equity securities that present the group with opportunity for return through dividend income and trading gains.
Equity investments designated as available for sale are held for strategic rather than trading purposes.
The group does not actively trade these investments.
m Equity price sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on the exposure to equity price risks at the reporting date.
If equity prices had been 25% higher lower, other equity reserves would increase decrease by $3.0 million 2008: $1.3 million for the group as a result of the changes in fair value of available-for-sale shares.
The increase compared to the prior year relates to a higher current share price combined with additional investment during the year.
The groups investment in blinkx is a strategic long term investment following the demerger and is expected to be held for the foreseeable future.
Due to the early stages of this entity it is likely that there will be volatility in the share price and hence the value of this investment may vary significantly from period to period.
n Credit risk management The group is principally exposed to credit risk over its trade receivables.
Details regarding the management of this risk are provided in note 16.
The groups investments in equity are in technology companies where management do not anticipate to receive dividends.
No significant credit risk has been identified in relation to these investments.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 63
