Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 27.
Share Based Payments continued Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Related Party Transactions Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries which are related parties have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the group and its joint venture associate are disclosed below.
Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries and associate are disclosed in the companys separate financial statements.
a Trading transactions with associate There have been no transactions during 2009 and there are no balances due to or from the associate at 31 December 2009 2008: $nil.
b Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the group, is considered a related party transaction for purposes of IAS 24.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report beginning on page 31.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures also requires the amounts arising in relation to equity compensation charges.
The amounts charged to the income statement in relation to the directors is set out below.
Financial Instruments a Capital risk management The group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 19, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in note 22 and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 38.
The group aims to maintain cash balances over $100 million to provide both security to customers making a significant long term investment when they acquire our software and to provide funds for potential acquisitions should the opportunity arise.
b Externally imposed capital requirement The group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
c Significant accounting policies Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements.
d Derivative contracts The group does not enter into any financial derivative contracts.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 61
