Financial Review holds material cash balances in pounds sterling, U. S. dollars and Euros.
The key risks to which the business is exposed are summarized as follows: The company does not currently undertake currency hedging transactions to cover the companys transaction or translation exposures, but the Our business depends on our core technology, currently marketed company may choose to hedge a portion of these exposures in the future.
under the brand IDOL, and our strategy has been, and for the foreseeable future will continue to be, to concentrate our efforts on The directors believe that the companys current cash and cash equivalents developing and marketing software based on our proprietary and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet the technology.
companys anticipated cash requirements for working capital and capital Technology which significantly competes with the companys expenditures for at least the next 12 months.
technology would present a material risk to the company.
Expenditures increasing without a commensurate increase in 1 revenues, and rapid changes in market conditions, could result in poor Supplemental Metrics operating results.
Autonomy is supplying supplemental metrics to assist in the understanding The average selling prices of our products could decrease rapidly, and analysis of Autonomys business.
which may negatively impact revenues and gross margins.
The continuation of unfavourable economic and market conditions.
2009 Our reliance on sales of our products by third parties, such as value 2 Organic Growth............................................................... 16% added resellers, makes it more difficult to predict our revenues, cash 3 Cash conversion LTM CFFO LTM adj.
EBITDA......... 80% flow and operating results as we rely on entities not within our control Cash conversion lagged to account for growth and to properly represent, market and forecast sales of our products.
seasonality of the business............................................ 91% Our ability to expand sales through indirect sellers.
Cash conversion lagged to account for growth and The continued service of our executive directors.
seasonality of the business and acquired Interwoven The hiring and retention of qualified personnel.
trade debt....................................................................... 99% Errors or defects in our products, which could negatively affect our revenues and the market acceptance of our products and increase our 1 The items in the table above are provided for background information and may costs.
Problems encountered in connection with potential acquisitions.
2 The company integrates acquired businesses immediately upon acquisition Claims by others that we infringe on their intellectual property rights.
such that it is not possible to identify results from acquired businesses Our ability to effectively manage our growth.
separately from the results of the group.
In order to estimate organic growth Additional operational and financial risks as we continue to expand our the company has eliminated the estimated contribution from Interwoven from the 2009 results and compared the adjusted result to the 2008 reported international operations.
The estimated contribution from Interwoven in 2009 is derived from Any breach of our security measures and unauthorised access to a the 2008 reported amounts for Interwoven after adjusting for discontinued customers or our data.
EBITDA is defined as operating cash flow before movements in working The companys policies applicable to employees addressing key business capital.
risks, including financial, communications, whistle blowing and health and safety, are made available through policy manuals and the companys Key Risks intranet site.
Autonomy operates globally in varied markets and is affected by a number of risks inherent in its activities, not all of which are within its control.
The The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success of the following discussion identifies the most significant risks that may adversely company are an integral part of the internal control environment.
Such affect the companys business, operations, liquidity, financial position or processes, in addition to those discussed above, include strategic planning, future performance.
This section should be read carefully in conjunction appointing highly skilled managers with accountability, regular monitoring of with the Forward-Looking Statements on page 73 of this document.
The performance and setting and communicating high standards and targets for Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing the risk management ethics, safety and health.
processes and procedures, and conducts a regular review of activities.
Sushovan Hussain Chief Financial Officer 22 February 2010 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 Financial Review The company has several key performance measures used internally to monitor and challenge performance and to assist decision making.
The most important measures are summarized as follows: Target Indicator Purpose of Indicator 2009 2008 % change Range Measure of the companys success in Revenue $739.7m $503.2m 47% growing the adoption of its technologies Measure of operating efficiency and Revenue per employee $439,000 $403,000 9% success of the companys business model Indicator of the value of the companys 1 Average selling price $403,000 $392,000 3% $350-400k offerings and industry trends Indicator of strategic value of companys Deals $1 million 66 40 65% offerings and general economic indicator Indicator of success of the companys, 2 Gross margins adj.
88% 91% 3% 89-92% business model Used to monitor overall company, 3 Operating margins adj.
44% 41% 8% 45-50% performance Measure of overall company performance, 3 EPS adj.
$0.97 $0.68 42% for total shareholder return Measure of quality of customer base and DSOs 88 days 84 days 5% 85-90 days conversion of revenues to cash Indicator of cash collection, use of 4 Cash balances $242.8m $199.2m 22% $100m resources and key company assets 5 LTM cash conversion Measure of ability to convert profits to cash 99% 93% 6% 90-100% Important measure for long term company R&D expense investment in technology leadership, but $98.8m $78.4m 26% N A will vary over time Indicator of growth of company relative to Average headcount 1,684 1,248 35% N A revenue growth For adjusted results details and reconciliations see page 36.
The above items are provided for background information and may include qualitative estimates.
1 Excludes large deals $2 million for consistency.
2 Gross margins increased throughout 2009 as planned following the completion of the integration of Interwoven and the transition of the core Interwoven business to higher margin sales, and were also impacted in Q3 2009 by the IDOL SPE Quick Start program, but have returned to historic levels in Q4 2009 as planned.
3 The increases in operating margins and EPS reflect significantly increased revenue, due to a combination of strong organic growth and the integration of Interwoven, versus the companys relatively fixed cost-base.
4 Gross and net cash balances increased significantly throughout the year, driven by cash generated from operations of $287 million and equity and debt financing, offset principally by the acquisition of Interwoven, Inc. early repayment of debt, one-off expenditure on new product development, one-off costs incurred for new product launch and investment in an offering of shares by blinkx Plc.
5 Lagged by one quarter to account for growth, and adjusting for approximately $25 million in excessive trade debt owed by Interwoven at time of acquisition.
14 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
