Trinity Mirror plc Annual Report & Accounts 200929 The mortality assumptions applied in calculating liabilities are The principal cash outflows in 2009 related to 23.5 million interest consistent with those adopted at 28 December 2008.
The life paid on borrowings and finance leases 2008: 36.3 million, capital expectancy increases marginally over time as a 1% future expenditure of 14.8 million 2008: 54.1 million and the repayment improvement has been accrued in the mortality assumptions.
of the bank facility of 10.0 million and finance leases of 9.8 million.
The assumed life expectancy from age 65 for members aged Other than from operating activities, the principal cash inflow in 2009 65 and 55 in 2010 are shown below: related to 8.9 million 2008: 4.0 million from proceeds on disposal Future life of property, plant and equipment.
Future life expectancy years expectancy years at age 65 for a for a pensioner non-pensioner Risks and uncertainties currently aged 65 currently aged 55 There is an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation and Male Female Male Female management of the significant risks faced by the Group.
This is described in the internal control section of the Corporate governance At 3 January 2010 21.6 24.0 23.4 25.7 report on page 44.
At 28 December 2008 21.4 23.8 23.2 25.6 Operational The key risks arising from operations relate to organisation and The Group continues to fund pension scheme deficits in accordance people, advertising, circulation, key suppliers, pensions and business with funding schedules agreed with the pension scheme trustees.
continuity and these are described below.
Valuations are undertaken on a triennial basis.
In 2008, the valuations of all the significant schemes, except the Trinity Retirement Benefit Organisation and people Scheme, were completed.
The Trinity Retirement Benefit Scheme The ability to execute and implement our strategic and business valuation has a valuation date of 30 June 2009 and will be completed plans relies on the appropriate Group structure, culture and availability in 2010. of talent.
Following an extensive consultation process the Group announced We will maximise the value and profitability of our core print brands.
the closure of all defined benefit pension schemes to future accrual New operating models are being rolled out across the Group to from 31 March 2010.
All active members of the defined pension provide a stronger platform for long-term growth.
The economic schemes will now have the option to join the Trinity Mirror Pension downturn has resulted in the Group reviewing its portfolio of print Plan TMPP, a defined contribution pension scheme, from 1 April brands to maximise profitability.
This has led to the launch of new 2010.
Following this change, the operating profit charge for pension or enhanced publications and the closure or disposal of unprofitable provision in 2010 is expected to remain at a similar level to 2009. newspapers.
Despite the challenges of the current economic The IAS 19 pension finance charge for 2010 is expected to be environment we continue to strive for growth in our digital audiences 5.5 million.
by the launch and development of online brands including websites The Group will continue to fund the deficits in the defined benefit and mobile sites.
We are also growing a contract print business pension schemes and for 2010, the cash funding in excess of of scale.
the income statement charge, will be around 30 million 2009: 16.6 million excluding the impact of a non-recurring credit of Advertising 9.9 million explained in note 8 on page 68.
Further details of The loss of major clients or reduction in a sector may adversely affect future funding commitments and the TMPP are shown in note 35 advertising, which is a significant proportion of our revenue.
We are on pages 88 to 92. not overly reliant on any single customer or sector but have been impacted by the downturn being experienced by the UK and by the Other non-current liabilities and net current liabilities potential long-term impact on key classified revenues arising from Deferred tax liabilities have decreased by 6.6 million from media fragmentation.
We are investing in our advertising functions 325.4 million to 318.8 million due to the amortisation on intangible using state-of-the-art technology to improve customer service.
assets, accelerated capital allowances and other short-term timing We have strengthened our online presence through acquisitions differences.
and the continuing launch of new digital brands.
Provisions have decreased by 8.1 million from 25.4 million to Circulation 17.3 million due to the utilisation of restructuring provisions and We may experience loss of readership due to competitor activity and property provisions for vacant property partially offset by additional the impact of media fragmentation.
Our approach is to continue to charges during the year.
focus on sustainable returns and appropriate levels of investment in Net current other liabilities includes current assets excluding cash our titles.
We have invested in colour presses giving full colour across and cash equivalents less trade and other payables and current the network and continue to invest in editorial content and marketing.
Key suppliers Total equity We have a number of key suppliers in particular newsprint which if Total equity at the year end was 489.2 million, a decrease of they were unable to meet their obligations to the Group could result 45.5 million from 534.7 million.
The decrease reflects the in disruption.
We use a spread and mix of suppliers to reduce 48.5 million total recognised expense for the period reduced by a dependency on specific sources or locations.
3.0 million credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments.
Pensions The total recognised expense for the period is due to the actuarial Pension deficits may grow at such a rate so that the annual funding losses on defined benefit pension schemes more than offsetting the costs consume a disproportionate level of profit.
Although this is profit for the period.
carefully monitored and there are regular reviews with trustees, there are a number of factors which are outside our control, including Cash flow interest rates, inflation rates, mortality and regulatory change.
Cash generated from operations has decreased by 4.7 million, The cost of final salary pension provision has risen sharply both in from 102.3 million to 97.6 million.
This fall in operating cash flows terms of future service and additional cash required to meet the cost is predominantly driven by the fall in operating profit.
of funding past service deficits.
This, together with the slowdown in Financials Governance Business review Who we are
