Directors Report: Business review Risk management As a business we could not function properly unless we are very specific about the identification and management of risk and how we respond to changes in the external operating environment.
Managing risk effectively is a critical element of Embedded in the business our corporate responsibility and underpins the The Executive directors meet weekly to discuss safe delivery of our business plans and strategic strategy implementation and separately with the objectives.
It protects our reputation, supports our Senior Management Committee SMC.
The SMC ability to do business and helps to create long-term comprises the General Managers of E&A, P&D competitive advantage.
Risk management is and Finance and the Heads of Corporate Planning embedded in Tullows organisation structure, & Economics, Commercial, HR and Risk & Marketing operations and performance management tools.
and this group is responsible for delivery of the The Group has a systematic approach to risk annual budget.
This reporting and communication identification and management which combines structure between the Executive Directors and SMC the Boards assessment of risk with risk factors leads to an effective two-way exchange of information originating from and identified by the Groups and ensures co-ordinated decision-making takes business units and in-country operations.
place with a premium placed on risk management.
Monitored monthly In each area of risk the Executive Directors are Overall responsibility for risk management resides supported by members of the senior management with Tullows Board of Directors.
Key risks are team or senior managers with functional, business monitored by the Board as part of a monthly unit or in-country roles.
Accountability for managing operational and financial management report for risk is assigned to individual managers and each the Group, which includes operational, financial, employee is personally responsible for managing EHS and external market progress against predefined risk within the remit of their role.
In this report, progress in Independently reported implementing plans to manage risks is through a The risk reporting process is co-ordinated narrative commentary and a traffic light system.
In independently by the Group Internal Audit Manager this way it is clear whether risk mitigation has been with input from the Executive Directors and senior achieved, is in progress or has escalated and requires managers accountable for managing risks.
This provides a dynamic risk provides the Board with an active, action-oriented management process where new risks are identified process that closely monitors key risks.
The system and mitigation processes are refined in the context of also validates progress being made in mitigating the current external operating environment.
risk throughout the year across the business.
Clear accountability Linked to annual performance Tullow has nominated Executive Directors with Tullow undertakes a detailed annual business responsibility for key risks and this approach is planning and budget process extending over a closely aligned with the Groups business model three-year planning horizon.
The budget provides which integrates and coordinates exploration, the key financial measures against which the production, finance, legal and governance efficiency and management of individual work decision making.
programmes and the performance of the Group is Part of Group strategy measured.
The budget and planning process While risk management operates on a rolling includes annual objectives and targets covering calendar basis, key risks for strategic delivery production, development, exploration, EHS and of the Groups business plans and objectives are financial performance, which are set at a business identified as part of the Boards annual review of unit and asset level.
Business plans are agreed with Group strategy.
The Chief Executives review sets out the Board together with risks to delivery and defined the Groups growth strategy, strategic objective and operational targets.
strategic priorities, which is on page 22 of this Report.
62 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Actual performance against the plan is reported on a monthly basis including an explanation of key How we are organised variances.
On a quarterly basis senior management At Tullow, a strong governance assess the Groups performance through a series of and organisational framework defines the roles and reviews with business units.
These reviews include responsibilities of your Board an assessment of risks to delivery and measures and senior management.
being implemented to manage these potential risks.
Longer range financial projections are also regularly prepared.
Read more on page 8 This operational risk management and reporting process combined with the Boards strategic risk of these operations.
As risks are effectively mitigated review ensures that risk management is linked to they are replaced with emerging risks.
strategic delivery and the achievement of Business Unit operational targets and objectives.
The report is distributed to senior management, partners and the Ghanaian government and also Defined Audit Committee participation forms part of the Groups monthly operational and The Audit Committee plays a key role in reviewing financial report for the Tullow Board.
the effectiveness of the Groups internal control procedures and financial risk management systems.
Appropriate policies and procedures In 2009, the Committee approved the annual internal Tullow has detailed policies, procedures and systems audit plan and received summary results from all of in place to support risk management across the the audits conducted during the year.
These include the Groups Code of Business Committee monitors the integrity of the financial Conduct, HR and EHS policies and systems, supply statements and the work of the external auditors, chain management, crisis management plans and reviews the work of the independent reserves ISO14001 certification of the Groups Environmental auditors ERC and the arrangements in place for Management System.
Further information on these managing Information Technology risk relating to the are contained in the corporate responsibility section Groups critical business systems.
Further details on of this report, on page 70. the Audit Committee can be found in the Corporate Governance section on page 86 of this report.
2010 principal risks The Group has identified its 2010 principal risks How risk management responds as being: A key feature of Tullows approach to risk are the Execution risk in major development projects actions taken in response to situations where risks in Ghana and Uganda: and crystallise.
We reacted quickly to our first fatality in Exploration risk in the context of a very active 2010 2009 and developed a comprehensive response culminating in a Group-wide health and safety audit programme which includes up to 12 Equatorial Atlantic, 10 Ugandan and eight wildcat wells by the end of the year.
The key actions arising from this audit process will be implemented in 2010.
Full planned in our 2010 E&A programme.
details on our response to this fatality are on Enhanced risk disclosure page 73 of this Report.
Tullow groups risk into strategic, financial, operational and external risk.
Throughout the year How risk management evolves we have critically reviewed and evaluated the risks Tullow has established dedicated project teams to the Group faces.
We have synthesised these in this manage major developments in Ghana and Uganda.
years report and have improved our disclosure As part of that process project milestones were through aligning risks with Executive Director established covering EHS, cost, schedule and responsibility, Groups KPIs and related policies and technical aspects of the development.
In recognition of the level of strategic risk detailed risk analysis is completed with inputs from associated with the Groups major projects key partners as appropriate.
Plans to mitigate these operational and business milestones have been risks are developed by the project teams and added to performance indicators.
We have also reviewed by the Executive and the Board.
reported on the progress made during 2009 in On an ongoing basis the Jubilee project development key Group risks.
team produce a comprehensive monthly report that provides a detailed summary of progress being made in meeting key project milestones.
Key execution risks are identified along with the mitigation actions being implemented to manage these risks.
Through this process risk identification, mitigation and monitoring are completed as part of the day-to-day management www.
com 63 Directors Report: Business review Directors Report: Business review Risk management continued Risk KPI Mitigation Strategic risk Impact: Ineffective or poorly executed strategy fails to create shareholder value or fails to meet shareholder expectations.
Top quintile TSR Strategy focused on delivering Ghana and Uganda developments and a selective high-impact Strategy fails to exploration programme.
Effective communication with all stakeholders based on uniform, meet shareholder open and transparent dialogue.
expectations Staff turnover An open, engaging and empowering culture, career potential, and remuneration policies Loss of key staff and to attract and retain staff.
Succession planning, specific development and training policies succession planning and the continuing success of the Group.
Financial risk Impact: Asset performance and excessive leverage results in the Group being unable to meet its financial obligations.
Liquidity profile Prudent approach to debt and equity with a balance maintained through refinancing and equity Insufficient liquidity, placing.
Regular Board review and approval for financing options.
Shortand long-term cash inappropriate Capital expenditure and forecasts reported to senior management and Board monthly.
Maintenance of strong banking cost management targets financing strategy and equity relationships.
Operating cost per barrel Comprehensive annual budgeting process covering all expenditure approved by the Board.
Cost and Executive management approval required for major categories of expenditure effectively capital discipline Full finding costs managing capital allocation.
Monthly reporting versus budget with variance analysis.
per barrel Operational risk Impact: Operational event impacting staff, contractors, communities or the environment leading to loss of reputation and or revenue.
No major environmental EHS performance standards set and monitored regularly across the Group through EHS failures and incidents performance reporting.
Clear policies and security incident procedures supported by strong leadership accountability and commitment throughout LTIFR 1.0 and top the organisation.
quartile industry safety performance Specific yearly base and Technical, financial and Board approval for all projects and dedicated project teams Key development stretch targets that reflect established.
Risk evaluation and progress reporting initiated for all projects.
failure key project milestones Project milestone KPIs established for Ghana and Uganda.
Reserves and resources Board approval of E&A programme.
Finding cost per barrel and high-grading of the Groups Sustained organic replacement portfolio measuring success of exploration spend, reported monthly to Board.
Use of exploration failure appropriate technologies and technical excellence in exploration methodologies.
Full finding costs per barrel External risk Impact: The overall external political, industry or market environment may negatively impact on the Groups ability to independently grow and manage its business.
Top quintile Consistent ethical standards established and applied through code of business conduct and Corporate industry performance contract and procurement procedures.
Developing and maintaining successful relationships responsibility with governments and communities.
Regular review of compliance requirements with periodic Board reporting.
Realised commodity prices Hedging strategy agreed by Board, monthly reporting of hedging activity.
Oil gas price volatility Remaining independent Robust defence strategies against hostile acquisitions.
Effective investor engagement Hostile acquisition and ongoing open honest and transparent communications programmes.
Includes corruption or reputation risk, political risk and fiscal change and corporate governance failings.
64 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Executive Policies and Read Progress in 2009 responsibility systems more Jubilee Phase I development on track for Q4 2010 first oil within budget.
Aidan Heavey Annual business plan, Pages Project milestones met, approval of the Plan of Development, Field Unitisation SMC responsibility, 10 and Agreement and Environmental Impact Assessment granted.
Uganda commercial monthly reporting, 11, 19 threshold exceeded, pre-emption and farmdown accelerating development annual strategy review, and 24 programme underway.
IR programme Staff numbers increased by 24% to support business growth, positive Graham Martin Living our values, HR Pages results from employee survey.
Succession planning and staff development function and policies, 18, 74 programmes established.
training and development and 75 Significant strengthening of balance sheet through equity placings Ian Springett Finance strategy, cash Pages in 2009 2010 realising 1.3 billion, US$2 billion reserve-based refinancing, flow forecasting and 56 to 61 additional US$250 million revolving credit facility secured.
management, capital allocation processes Capital expenditure increased during year to accelerate exploration and Paul McDade Delegation of Authority Pages appraisal activities in Ghana and Uganda, together with licence acquisitions DOA and budgeting and 56 to 61 Angus McCoss in the Liberian basin and exploration drilling in Cte dIvoire.
reporting processes EHS performance measures met, EHS leadership and accountability Paul McDade EHS policies, IMS, toes, Pages process updated and embedded, enhanced accident and incident reporting.
EMS, crisis management 28 and Following Bangladesh fatality comprehensive response plan implemented procedures, H&S policy, 29, 70 and H&S audit completed by year-end.
EHS Leadership Team to 73 Jubilee development milestones met with project on track and on budget.
Uganda Paul McDade IMS, EHS systems Pages exploration and appraisal programme confirmed in excess of 800 million barrels and policies, DOA, 70 to 73 of oil.
Accelerated basin development programme through Heritage deal Code of Business pre-emption and advanced farmdown process.
Conduct, risk management process Record 87% exploration and appraisal success including 300 million barrel Angus McCoss GELT, competitive capital Pages Jobi-Rii discovery in Uganda, Tweneboa oil and gas discovery in Ghana allocation process, clear 8 and 9, and Venus B-1 well in Sierra Leone.
exploration strategy 24, 26 to 28 Review and update of Code of Business Conduct, establishment of External Graham Martin Code of Business Pages Affairs function, review of political and country risk process completed.
Conduct, CR policies, 68 to 75 social enterprise 78 to 90 investment Conservative hedging policy with realised oil and gas prices of US$60 bbl Ian Springett Hedging strategy Pages and 39 pence per therm.
Detailed monthly Board reporting of hedge positions 25, 58 DOA and performance.
56 to 61 Defence strategy updated and ongoing review of readiness arrangements with Graham Martin Documented defence key advisors.
com 65 Directors Report: Business review Goretti Kabajumbura, Local Community Worker Kaiso-Tonya Region, Uganda 7 Creating shared prosperity Our corporate responsibility approach is to work more closely with external stakeholders to ensure that oil and gas resources generate new opportunities for long-term economic development, creating shared prosperity for all.
Corporate responsibility 68 To achieve our vision we take a long-term perspective in protecting our reputation, managing risk, investing in people and creating the right operating environment to enable us to successfully execute our strategy.
Living our values 70 As our organisation grows we must not lose sight of the unique characteristics that have supported our success to date.
Environment, Health and Safety 72 Successful EHS performance depends on keeping line management fully engaged with EHS, and we have a 21-member EHS Leadership Team at Tullow to support this.
Our people 74 Feedback from employees is critical in helping us understand where there is room for improvement or where we simply need to try a little harder.
