28 Operating and Financial Review Risks and Uncertainties Strategic Risk Risks and Uncertainties Making acquisitions is a key component of our strategy, In this section we describe some of the principal risks that the directors consequently exposing us to risks associated with believe could materially affect our business, revenues, operating income, acquisitions.
net income, net assets or liquidity or capital resources.
The nature of risk The focus of our acquisition efforts remains on tradeshows and IP-based is such that no list can be comprehensive and it is possible that other data and service businesses, and on opportunities in emerging markets.
risks may arise, or that risks not currently considered material may The risks associated with such a strategy include the availability of become so in future.
suitable acquisition candidates, obtaining regulatory approval for any Sound risk management is an essential discipline for running the acquisition, assimilating and integrating acquired companies into UBM business efficiently and pursuing our strategy successfully.
We have a and changes in the availability or cost of debt financing due to the global business-wide risk management process, monitored by the Board, to credit crunch.
In addition, potential difficulties inherent in mergers ensure a consistent and coherent approach to the principal risk factors and acquisitions may adversely affect the results of an acquisition.
that are described in this section and to those other risk factors that may These include delays in integration or unexpected costs or liabilities, arise or which may become material in the future.
Our internal audit as well as the risk of failing to realise operating benefits or synergies function reviews these risks with each UBM business and corporate from completed transactions.
functions, agreeing upon measures and controls to mitigate their risks wherever possible.
Mitigating Factor The principal risk factors that the directors believe could materially We mitigate these risks by following systematic procedures for affect the Group include the following: integrating acquisitions, applying strict financial criteria to any potential acquisition including the costs associated with financing the transaction, Strategic Risk and subjecting the process to close monitoring and review by internal We operate in a highly competitive environment that is audit and the Board.
subject to rapid change and must continue to invest and adapt to remain competitive.
Strategic Risk Our Events, Data, Services and Online, Print magazines and Our continued expansion into new geographic regions Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring businesses operate in subjects our businesses to specific risks of operating in highly competitive markets that continue to change in response to these regions.
technological innovation and other factors, as discussed in the Strategy As a result of acquisitions and organic growth, we have operations and Performance section.
We cannot predict with certainty changes in many new geographic regions such as India, South America and that may affect the competitiveness of the business, or whether the United Arab Emirates.
We are a global entity but growth in these technological innovation will render some of our existing products regions presents logistical and management challenges due to different and services partially or wholly obsolete.
business cultures, laws and languages.
Expansion in geographical locations remote from the centres of management increases the spans Mitigating Factor of control.
We aim to mitigate this risk through creating a balanced portfolio of products that evolves to meet the needs of our customers, investing Mitigating Factor particularly in organic initiatives that address this environment, and We are addressing each of the control, operational and reputation risks acquiring and developing innovative digital products, while at the by sending experienced employees into new regions as part of local same time selling or closing certain print magazine titles.
management teams and through review by internal audit.
There are also During 2009, we have continued to further diversify our portfolio challenges in managing remuneration structures in what have, to date, or products, reducing the impact of technological innovation on the been very fast changing business climates which creates a risk to the overall competitiveness of the business.
retention of our best staff.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 29 Strategic Risk Strategic Risk Attracting and retaining key management personnel As the Group moves away from print advertising towards across all our businesses.
online and digital products, risks around IT security We operate in a number of industry segments in which there is increase significantly.
intense competition for experienced and highly qualified individuals.
Specific risks include the attempted theft of data within our data-based The ability of the company to attract talent and retain highly skilled, businesses, access to confidential information, particularly within our experienced, and motivated personnel plays an important part in the Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring businesses, and the reliance on continued successful execution of the strategy.
third parties data security controls under cloud computing or other IT outsourcing arrangements.
Mitigating Factor We place significant emphasis on succession planning and developing Mitigating Factor and retaining management talent.
We have in place a number of We seek to manage this risk by having well-defined IT security incentive schemes that are available for relevant management executives standards within the group, and reviews including penetration tests by described in the Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 47 and serve internal audit and third party specialist firms.
Such reviews also cover to attract, motivate and retain key senior managers.
We have also key third party suppliers.
continued to invest in the development of our Company culture to Strategic Risk support the evolution of a more agile, entrepreneurial and innovative Several of UBMs businesses have a strategy which company.
Our flagship UBM Business Leaders programme aims to develop high calibre business leaders and provides a valuable tool in the is dependent upon the successful execution of major projects.
A number of our businesses are currently engaged in material projects Strategic Risk to update critical reporting systems, restructure the business, refresh Structural market change and the economic downturn existing products, or develop new products to ensure that we remain may affect our results.
These projects are required to secure future revenue streams Advertising and other discretionary marketing spend tends to be and often involve a significant capital investment.
Many of the projects cyclical.
In times of economic slowdown or recession, some companies specifically involve a heavy investment in IT, and system development in spend significantly less, particularly on advertising.
The failure to manage and execute these projects successfully could lead to increased costs, delays in completion and consequent Mitigating Factor erosion of UBMs competitive position.
We are addressing this risk by continuing to migrate our operations from their traditional print base to incorporate a higher proportion of Mitigating Factor event, data, services and online revenues.
The increasing proportion of We seek to mitigate these project-related risks through monitoring by revenues from events in particular gives us better visibility on future internal audit and assigning responsibility for projects at an executive earnings.
We are also investing in both print and online intellectual management level within UBM.
property-based products e. g. workflow business information products which are less subject to the cycle of advertising spend.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 30 Operating and Financial Review Risks and Uncertainties continued Strategic Risk Strategic Risk Our businesses are required to comply with tightening Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect our reported and increasingly high profile legislation on data results.
UBM generates a substantial proportion of its revenue in foreign The need to comply with data protection legislation is a significant currencies particularly the US dollar, and foreign exchange rate control, operational and reputation risk which can impact the business fluctuations could adversely affect our earnings and the strength of in a number of ways including, for example, making it more difficult to our balance sheet.
grow and maintain marketing data and also through potential litigation Mitigating Factor relating to the alleged misuse of personal data.
Our policy on managing foreign currency risk is described in Note 21 Mitigating Factor to the financial statements.
We are addressing these risks by legal reviews, operational reviews and Strategic Risk staff training to raise awareness of the need for compliance in this area.
Future tax payments may exceed recorded liabilities.
Strategic Risk The management of tax liabilities are also a matter of regulatory Decentralisation and delayering of the Group compliance and legal structure.
There is a risk of failure to comply with organisational structuring increases pressure on control the necessary legislation and this could expose the group to penalties or resources, systems and capabilities.
During 2008, we reorganised UBM Technology, UBM Information Mitigating Factor and Commonwealth into a number of smaller business units.
We manage our tax affairs actively and seek at all times to use both Delayering the management structure and decentralisation of authority increases the pressure on control resources, systems and capabilities, internal resource and external advisors to ensure that these risks are contained.
which in turn leads to increased control risks.
Mitigating Factor We have reviewed and redesigned the control framework at a local level.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 31 Strategic Risk Strategic Risk The cost of providing pension benefits to existing and Our exhibitions business may be adversely affected by former employees is subject to changes in pension fund incidents which curtail travel, such as major terrorist values and changing mortality.
attacks or outbreaks of disease, such as Swine Flu, Sustained falls in equity markets and reductions in bond yields have Avian Flu or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the value of our UBMs exhibitions businesses contributed 33.9% of our revenue in pension funds.
We may therefore be required to recognise additional 2009.
Visitors fly in to these shows from around the world.
Any incident charges to our profit and loss account to the extent that the pension that curtails travel will have an impact on the running of an event that fund values are less than the total anticipated liability under the plans.
In 2008, the CPhI India and P-MEC India shows in Mumbai There is an exposure in the event that asset returns are insufficient to scheduled for November 2008, coincided with the terrorist attacks in cover changes in the schemes liabilities over time.
the city, leading to the shows being cancelled.
Mitigating Factor Mitigating Factor This has been mitigated by active management of the investment We have developed business continuity arrangements, including IT portfolio and additional contributions have been made to the UK disaster recovery plans and back-up delivery systems, to minimise any schemes.
UBM has acted to close its defined benefit schemes to new business disruption in the event of a major disaster.
Insurance coverage members and neither the CEO nor the CFO belongs to such a scheme.
may reduce losses in certain circumstances.
In addition to the risks described above, further information on risks and how they are addressed is provided elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements: the Operating and Financial Review contains discussion of funding and financial risk management: Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements contains further information on risks associated with capital management: and the report on Corporate Governance contains a discussion on risks relating to financial reporting.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009
