Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Management of risks and uncertainties and Corporate responsibility Management of risks and uncertainties and corporate responsibility 5% 130 no single programme represents specialist capability areas more than 5% of Ultras revenue in Ultra has a strong portfolio of more any one year than 130 specialist capability areas Management of risks and uncertainties Ultras confidence in its ability to continue to deliver growth is underpinned by a number of key factors.
The Group has a track record of year-on-year success despite significant volatility in foreign exchange rates and whilst experiencing full market cycles in both the defence and civil sectors.
These risks will continue to be mitigated through robust business strategies.
Ultra has positioned itself in high growth sectors within its main defence, security, transport and energy markets.
The Group has demonstrated a long track record of identifying future high growth market sectors and then investing to create differentiated positions Ultra supplies its proven, reliable HiPPAG airborne compressor for missile in them.
Ultras ever broadening range of specialist capability areas cooling and for weapons ejection drives resilience into the Groups performance.
This overall process of positioning and repositioning is described more fully on pages 10 Importantly, Ultra has taken steps to broaden its geographic and 11 of this document.
footprint and thereby to extend the base on which the Groups further growth will be built.
The acquisition of Dascam gives a Market factors proven route to market in the Middle East, an area of significant About three-quarters of Ultras revenue is from the defence sector.
potential for many of Ultras niche offerings.
Avalon Systems, in A theoretical risk would therefore be a significant worldwide addition to having its own specialist electronic warfare capabilities, reduction in defence expenditure.
The overall size of the defence provides Ultra with an initial operational capability in Australia.
budgets relative to Ultras annual revenue provides sufficient This will not only satisfy the immediate needs of the sonar system headroom for the Groups growth to continue.
Ultras constant contract won in 2008 but will also act as a portal for all Ultra focus has consistently been on ensuring that the Groups businesses into the fast growing Asia Pacic regional market.
businesses operate in a large number of growing niche markets Ultra is represented on a significant range of major international where the Group can create and maintain sustainable competitive programmes and platforms.
Despite Ultras growth it remains true advantage and can win business worldwide.
This specialism and that no single programme represents more than 5% of Ultras diversity give some protection from budget variations and so revenue in any year.
The cancellation or curtailment of any single provide resilience to Ultras performance.
programme is unlikely therefore to have a significant adverse impact Ultras financial performance has not been driven significantly by on the Group.
the current allied operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.
These Ultra supplies all elements of the armed forces, i. e. the army, navy, operations will be scaled back in the next few years.
Since Ultra air force and marines together with first responders such as medical did not benefit materially from the start of these operations, it is staff and reghters.
This customer spread provides an element of anticipated that such a withdrawal would not harm the Groups risk mitigation.
In addition, Ultra operates in a number of different trading position.
Indeed, it might well be an overall benefit to the distinct market sectors, including battlespace IT: sonar: military Group as it may alleviate some of the current pressures on aircraft equipment and military vehicle equipment.
reduces the risk of decline in any one market sector materially The international spread of Ultras activities provides resilience to affecting Ultras overall performance.
The Group now sells its products and services in Ultra has significant business in the civil sector and this provides over forty countries worldwide and this has broadened the useful diversication, often providing an adjacent market in which to customer base.
Ultra also has a transatlantic capability, with twelve exploit complementary skills and technologies.
Within the civil of its twenty four businesses being in North America and so is market, Ultra operates in aerospace, transport, energy and exploiting its innovative solutions and operating as a domestic commercial security sectors.
This spread gives further resilience to entity on both sides of the Atlantic, thereby providing sovereign Ultras performance.
operational independence of the respective armed forces.
strategies for growth driving resilience see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 25 Management of risks and uncertainties and corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Management of risks and uncertainties and corporate responsibility 37% battlespace IT sales of Ultras specialist battlespace IT systems and equipment represented 37% of the Groups 2009 revenue With respect to currency transaction risks Ultra has a natural Staff retention hedge from its geographic spread of activities.
The majority of Ultras strategies to develop its people are described on pages sales made by Ultras businesses, wherever they are based, are 12 and 13 of this report.
It is fundamental to the way that Ultra made in their local currency, thus avoiding any transaction risk.
operates that it focuses on retaining and developing those However this risk does arise when businesses make sales and individuals who have the potential to offer the Group more and to purchases that are denominated in foreign currencies, most often undertake a larger role in the future.
Those high potential staff are the US dollar.
When a foreign currency weakens against the local given a high degree of challenge, training, support and currency revenue suffers from a negative currency transaction encouragement so they may continue to demonstrate the effect and the opposite is true when the foreign currency development of which they are capable.
To reduce this volatility Ultra has taken steps to source retention rate of 98% of those individuals on the business senior in US dollar zones a higher proportion of the cost of products sold management teams that were in the green zone of the graphic on in US dollars.
For the remaining net exposure the Groups policy is page 12.
By developing and retaining the high potential individuals to hedge forward the foreign currency trading exposure in order to in this zone, the Group is creating its next generation of business increase certainty.
Traditionally, forward cover has been established leaders who will be able to take up the challenge, when required, for 18 to 24 months worth of US dollar-denominated sales from of continuing the growth and expansion of Ultra.
A decision was taken in 2008, however, to extend this protection by putting additional hedging contracts in place to provide partial cover for the Groups expected net exposure for a further five years.
Exposure to other currencies is hedged as it arises on specic contracts.
Industry restructuring The industries in which the Group operates continue to experience restructuring, which sometimes results in Ultras customers themselves becoming more vertically integrated.
This may increase the incidence of the Groups customers having capabilities that overlap with Ultras.
The threat that this otherwise might pose is offset by Ultras strategy of operating in specic market niches where it has some sustainable differentiation.
Ultra supplies advanced electronic architecture solutions suitable for use on Pricing pressure the latest designs of armoured vehicles Ultras customers aspire to stable or reducing prices for the goods and services that they procure.
This inevitably leads to cost Exchange rates pressures to which the Group must respond.
Ultra has a long Ultras financial performance is affected by movements in foreign track record of product innovation, exploiting new, lower cost currency exchange rates because it has subsidiaries that are based electronics technologies to reduce costs whilst delivering overseas, mainly in Canada and the USA.
Their sales and operating improved performance.
Additionally, operational efficiencies are profits are translated into sterling every year using an average achieved by working more intelligently, particularly through exchange rate for the year.
A similar effect is seen when reporting embracing lean manufacturing and design processes.
Ultra has the sales made in US dollars by Ultra businesses based in the UK.
made significant progress in sourcing production in low cost Variations in these exchange rates result in a currency translation economies where this is appropriate given the nature of the risk.
With the average US dollar exchange rate strengthening products that the Group provides.
The anticipated cost substantially during the year, the Groups reported revenues were reductions have been achieved, thereby helping protect and enhanced by a positive currency translation effect.
The Canadian improve the Groups headline operating margins.
dollar saw a similar trend and this contributed further to the favourable impact.
Overall the average rate for the US dollar strengthened against sterling by 15% and the Canadian dollar rate by 9%.
The combined impact was to increase reported revenue by 9% or 48.1m.
On headline operating profit the effect was an increase of 8%, equivalent to 6.3m.
By their nature these currency translation risks cannot be mitigated.
26 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Management of risks and uncertainties and Corporate responsibility 40 18% countries growth of headline operating profit Ultra sells its systems, products and at constant currencies services in more than 40 countries worldwide Relationships Corporate responsibility The diversied nature of Ultras activities is reected in the broad range of platforms and programmes in which the Group is involved.
Employment practices and standards Ultra believes that superior business performance can only be This diversication extends to customer, supplier and partner relationships.
Within its total sales to the major prime contractors, achieved through having committed and efficient people.
Achieving this high quality requires Ultra to recruit widely and with no bias or Ultra typically supplies products, equipment, sub-systems and services to a range of different platforms and programmes, with discrimination.
It is therefore the policy of Ultra to be an equal opportunities employer and to oppose all forms of unlawful or each one effectively acting as a different customer.
Given that no single platform or programme represents more than 5% of revenue unfair discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, nationality, disability, sexual orientation, age, marital status, religion or political in any one year, there is, therefore, no single relationship of such signicance that its severance would have a material impact on belief.
In addition, the Group is a responsible employer, seeking to achieve a culture of fairness to employees and of being a good Ultras performance or prospects.
place both to work and develop a career.
Employees and applicants Resources are treated equally and fairly in respect of recruitment, An important Group resource is its excellent reputation with its remuneration, training, promotion and career development.
All employees strive constantly to ensure that this None of Ultras businesses use forced, compulsory or child labour.
Development and training Ultra has access to adequate financial and human resources to implement its strategy for the foreseeable future.
The performance The Group actively supports and invests in training and development of Ultra is fundamentally driven by the individual and team linked to business needs.
Each business is responsible for identifying contributions made by its employees.
The Groups success in the training needs of its employees and managing its own training innovating to meet customer needs is based on the broad range of budget.
This typically takes place through individual employee skills and capabilities of employees.
The availability of appropriately performance and development reviews, which are held at least skilled engineers and other specialist staff is nite.
Specic training programmes are provided for individuals competitive market, Ultra pursues a number of initiatives to give it as necessary.
an advantage over competing employers to attract, retain and In 2009 over 30 in-house training courses were run in the UK and in develop the best people.
These are described more fully on pages North America.
Many of these are courses that are tailored to the 12 and 13 of this document.
specic requirements of Ultra and the trainers have an intimate knowledge of how the Group operates across all its businesses.
For these courses, which typically have 12 to 20 participants, a focus is maintained on bringing together people from different businesses.
In this way, that which makes Ultra different and special is spread more broadly across the Group.
In addition, there is always value from such networking across different businesses.
The cross fertilisation of ideas often spawns ideas for innovative solutions to real customer requirements through internal teaming.
These training events include programmes on leadership and management processes and techniques, along with workshops on Ultras successful competitive strategy, strategic selling, programme management and systems engineering processes.
Individual businesses provide a wide variety of training and development opportunities.
As well as tuition reimbursement for Ultra supplies secure communication systems for use in modern jet aircraft shorter programmes, support also ranges from apprenticeship programmes to sponsorships at bachelor, master and doctorate level.
Ultra also has very strong links with a large number of universities.
For example, TCS sponsors a Chair at the Ecole Technologie Suprieur ETS currently held by Professor Francois Gagnon who leads a number of research projects in wireless communications and related technologies.
strategies for growth driving resilience see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 27 Management of risks and uncertainties and corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Management of risks and uncertainties and corporate responsibility continued 300 Ultras specialist capabilities are specified on over 300 international platforms and programmes Ultra is a responsible citizen Ultra believes that it should at all times be a responsible corporate citizen.
As such the Group complies with all applicable legislation in the areas of trading, employment, health and safety and the environment.
Ultra further believes that, in order to achieve superior business performance, the Group must, in certain areas, exceed the minimum standards required by law.
Ultras policies relating to its corporate responsibility are generally established by the Board with individual businesses taking a major role in their implementation.
Business ethics Ultra requires that its employees comply with the spirit and principles of the laws and standards of conduct of the countries in which it does business as well as behaving ethically and with Ultras right people are its most important asset fairness.
Ultra has a corporate ethics policy and businesses are required to report on compliance every month.
In addition, the Benets Board reviews compliance twice per year.
There were no Ultra offers to all employees competitive and comprehensive non-compliance issues reported in 2009.
Directors and employees benefits, which are regularly reviewed.
The Group believes in are required to avoid personal conflicts of interest regarding rewarding its employees well for good performance.
company business and are bound by strict rules on insider dealing and insider information.
In addition, all businesses are strictly All US and Canadian employees are offered medical plans.
Many required to comply fully with the relevant national export control businesses promote and offer specific wellness programmes such regulations.
They are also required to conduct their business in as smoking cessation, health screening and online resources.
strict accordance with competition and anti-trust laws.
Ultra also places a high level of importance on share plans that are During 2009 a decision was taken to expand to the whole of Ultra open to all employees.
These are offered as savings related share the role of the Ethical Overview Committee that has oversight of option plans in the UK, US and Canada on a regular basis and the business activities of Dascam in the UAE.
This independent enable all employees to share in the success of Ultra as a whole.
committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises General During 2009 a new plan was successfully launched in the UAE for Sir Rupert Smith retired NATO and UK General, Martin Bell retired the first time.
MP and former BBC correspondent and David Shattock retired Chief Constable.
Retirement benets Ultra offers retirement benets to its employees around the world.
As part of its commitment to business ethics Ultra recognises the Further details are provided on pages 23 and 24. importance of receiving feedback on ethics compliance from employees.
In early 2010 the internal reporting system will be replaced Employee consultation Group-wide by a new, independent weband telephone-based hotline Gaining the commitment of everyone who works at Ultra involves for reporting ethical and other compliance problems.
Any reports that effective communication and consultation.
This takes a number of are generated will be collected by the independent hotline operator forms such as the bi-annual Group magazine UltraNews, and forwarded to the Chairman of the Audit Committee other than company-wide strategy and performance presentations, birthday US security-related issues that will be routed through the outside and communication lunches, cascade team brief meetings, directors of the Special Security Arrangement board.
specific consultation groups and YOURviews employee surveys.
Ultra supports and respects the protection of internationally As a result of this focus on developing its people, Ultra is seen proclaimed human rights in the countries in which it operates.
as an attractive place to work with many interesting and Ultra does not make any political donations.
This was emphasised when the Groups Advanced Tactical Systems business was recognised as one of the Customers top 100 companies to work for in Texas for the second time Customer relationships through an award from Texas Monthly Magazine and the Texas Ultra promotes good working relationships with all its customers Association of Businesses.
with a special emphasis on meeting its commitments.
The Group receives direct feedback on relationships from the UK MoD 28 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Management of risks and uncertainties and Corporate responsibility 80 30 interviews courses Ultras Electrics business conducted Thirty in-house training courses were run over 80 face-to-face interviews to gain in 2009 in the UK and in North America customer feedback Directorate of Supplier Relations and from many customers such as have the necessary resources to implement the policy, to provide BAE Systems where Ultra is one of five members of its Strategic adequate information, instruction and training for employees and Supplier Programme.
Ultra continues to be recognised as a to implement monitoring of health and safety standards.
long-term partner to its customers with a variety of achievements.
The Chief Executive has been appointed as the main Board member Manufacturing & Card Systems became only the second UK with overall health and safety responsibility.
The Managing Directors contractor to achieve accreditation to NADCAP 7120 after and Presidents of the operating businesses are responsible for working closely with Honeywell Aerospace.
NADCAP 7120 is a implementation of the policy.
very demanding PCB manufacturing standard especially relevant Bi-annual audits by independent, external, qualied assessors to aerospace and defence applications.
covering health and safety matters are conducted, most recently Communication & Integrated Systems received a bronze Chairmans in 2009.
Audits and the resulting follow-up process have proved award from BAE Systems as part of the Loitering Munitions effective in reaching and maintaining high standards across all sites.
demonstration while PMES received a letter of commendation from Performance has continued to improve consistently across the Group BAE Systems in connection with both the supply of product and as illustrated below for North America.
The UK data is not included continuing support with the launch of the first Astute submarine in as a new audit framework, based on the OHSAS 18001 standard November 2009. was introduced for the first time, creating a new benchmark.
Individual businesses work very hard to promote excellent relationships with customers and receive feedback in the form of US and Canada H&S audit results metrics as well as recognition of exceptional performance.
There were outstanding results again during 2009.
For example, DNE Technologies was recognised by Parker Hannin for 100% delivery and 100% quality performance, by Lockheed Martin for 100% delivery performance and Northrop for 100% delivery, quality performance as well as customer satisfaction.
USSI received a certicate of appreciation from Avon Protection for achieving 100% quality.
In Canada the Honourable Gary Goodyear, Minister of State Science and Technology, recognized TCS as a Canadian Innovation Leader for developing advanced radio communication systems for the defense and aerospace industry, linking scientific research to commercialisation, jobs and economic growth.
The National Research Council of Canada NRC created the Canadian Innovation Accidents and incidents data is collected annually and incidents Leader Certicate Program to recognize Canadian rms that have involving lost time or requiring external reporting are reported monthly.
successfully developed and applied innovative technologies.
Many businesses conduct regular, formal customer surveys.
Electrics Reportable recordable accidents per employee conducted over 80 face-to-face interviews with customers in 2009 as part of their regular customer survey process, while AudioSoft use an outsourced feedback programme with key customers.
Individual contributions were also recognised.
For example, Derick Fulmer at ProLogic received a recognition from the 353rd CTS Commander, PACAF, for his superior support to the Red Flag Alaska program, ensuring that the unit achieved combat-ready status.
Also at ProLogic, Darin Kwasniewski received the directors award from the head of the National  Organization for his modelling work at the Joint Forces Command JFCOM.
Health and Safety A healthy, committed workforce working in a safe environment is necessary to achieve superior business results.
Ultra therefore places Each business is required to submit a separate annual report on great emphasis on maintaining high standards of health and safety.
The results of the audits and annual reports All Ultra businesses are required to have a written local policy, to from each business are reviewed by the Board annually in January.
strategies for growth driving resilience Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 29 Management of risks and uncertainties and corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Management of risks and uncertainties and corporate responsibility continued 91% Ultra achieved 91% compliance first time against a new UK environmental management benchmark All but the most recently acquired businesses have health & safety Local communities committees consisting of employees, managers and trained health Ultra recognises the importance of being a responsible partner in & safety representatives.
the communities in which it operates and in which its employees Health and safety of employees, visitors and the local community live.
The Group has a positive attitude to environmental issues and alike is taken very seriously by the Group and the individual is pleased to support selected charities and to maintain links with businesses.
PMES received a RoSPA Gold Award for the fourth year in its local communities.
succession recognising its excellent record of safety in the workplace.
Environment Wellness Ultra recognises that it is important, both for its employees and Ultras US businesses offer a number of programmes to help the communities in which it operates, that effective measures are employees improve their health.
The range of programmes includes: in place to ensure that the Group minimises the environmental impact of its activities.
Promoting general wellness Ultra has a formal environmental policy that addresses compliance Health risk assessments Disease management with environmental legislation, conformity with standards for air, Newsletters 24 hour nurse line waste disposal and noise, the economical use of materials and the Immunisations establishment of appropriate environmental performance standards.
Progress is monitored through annual reporting and a bi-annual Promoting group behavioural changes audit process.
The Chief Executive has been appointed as the main Board member with overall environmental responsibility.
The Awareness activities Health screenings Managing Directors and Presidents of the operating businesses are Incentives responsible for implementation of the policy.
Bi-annual external audits covering environmental matters are Additional promotions conducted by independent, external, qualied auditors: the last Classes seminars On-site tness centre audit took place in 2009.
As with health and safety, the audits and Face to face or phone coaching the resulting follow-up process have proved effective in reaching and maintaining high standards of compliance across all sites.
Performance has continued to improve consistently across the Group Suppliers as illustrated below for North America.
The UK data is not included Supplier and other partner relationships as a new audit framework, based on the ISO 14001 standard was Contracts with suppliers are placed following a fair, competitive introduced for the first time, creating a new benchmark: despite this tendering process on an arms length basis or through formal the UK audit performance increased from 84% to 91%.
Conflicts of interest are avoided at all times.
Ultras supplier relationships engender a cooperative culture which assists problem solving and helps to accommodate changes of US & Canada environmental audit results requirements where these occur.
Gain-share arrangements are also entered into where appropriate and provide benefits for Ultra and its suppliers and its partners.
Manufacturing & Card Systems is working with its suppliers as part of the 21st Century Supply Chains SC21 initiative.
Supplier payment policy Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which they conduct business transactions with their suppliers.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
30 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Management of risks and uncertainties and Corporate responsibility 11% 762m percentage of Ultras 2009 revenue from order book value at the end of 2009 the Middle East & Asia Pacic regions 2008: 7% Where appropriate, some businesses have successfully achieved of Connecticuts Corporate Honor Roll.
MSI has partnered with ISO14001 accreditation.
two local high schools and two local colleges for the promotion of science and electronics in education and the workforce.
Maritime Specific environmental programmes took place at a number of Systems sponsored the Dalhousie University student team entry in businesses ranging from a waste assessment to the introduction the Marine Advanced Technology Education Center Competition of full scale recycling.
For example, Electrics has achieved an being held in 2010. increase in recycling of over 10%, a reduction in utility consumption of 10% and a reduction in paper consumption of 26%.
Airport Systems introduced a new recycling system during 2009 and completed a Carbon Trust audit to identify costeffective environmental improvements.
Energy consumption is measured annually and, where possible, the data compared with previous years.
There was no contamination of land during 2009, as was the case in 2008.
The results of the audits and annual reports from each business are reviewed by the Board annually in January.
In the UK Ultra measures and reports on its packaging waste annually.
Businesses are encouraged and incentivised to reduce the net amount of waste they produce.
Programme Manager at Controls, Neil Thompson, fulfilled his dream by Packaging waste t m sales UK businesses climbing to the summit of Everest.
While being sponsored by Controls for the climb, Neil also raised about 2,000 for the CJD Support Network charity.
Charitable activities In addition to the charitable donations made by the Group see page 37 for details, Ultra employees are actively supported in their charitable fund-raising endeavours.
A large number of local and national charities is supported.
Charitable activities within Ultra vary across businesses and include donations to fund raising events including sponsored walks, runs and competitions.
Many thousands of pounds are raised in this way.
In addition, special assistance is given in a number of ways: these range from donating blood and clothes collections to The net amount of packaging waste in tonnes per million pounds of revenue sponsored activities and financial donations.
has reduced since 2006 A Children in Need fancy dress event at Airport Systems raised over Ultra businesses have modern video communication and 3,500 and at Maritime Systems in Canada, an employee rock conferencing facilities.
These have been progressively installed and band named UltraFied, competed in the March of Dimes Battle of upgraded over the last ten years and have proven highly effective the Bands in support of local special needs children raising a total in eliminating the need for travel to hold reviews and other of C$33,000.
The most significant effect has been a reduction in the amount of air travel undertaken.
Community activities Ultra businesses are strong supporters of their local communities.
Controls and Precision Air Systems both provide work placements to local schools while DNE Technologies actively supports a local youth mentoring scheme and has again been named on the State strategies for growth driving resilience Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 31 Management of risks and uncertainties and corporate responsibility
