Business review risk management The Groups business involves exposure to Credit risk Competition and a number of risks, many of which are The Groups principal financial assets are intellectual property risk inherent in pharmaceutical product bank balances and cash, trade and other development.
Risks particular to the Group receivables and investments.
The Groups Certain companies are developing include the following.
credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade medicines that may restrict the potential receivables.
An allowance for impairment is commercial success of the Groups made where there is an identified loss event Industry risk products or render them obsolete.
Third which, based on previous experience, is parties may have intellectual property that The nature of pharmaceutical development evidence of a reduction in the recoverability may restrict the Groups or the Groups is such that drug candidates may not be of the cash flows.
Licences successful owing to an inability to may not be available or may be costly and The credit risk on liquid funds is limited demonstrate in a timely manner the may reduce net royalty income to the because the counterparties are banks with necessary safety and efficacy in a clinical Group.
The Groups intellectual property high credit ratings assigned by international setting to the satisfaction of appropriate may become invalid or expire before its credit-rating agencies.
However, the recent regulatory bodies, such as the European products are successfully commercialised.
global credit problems could result in the Medicines Evaluation Agency EMEA in failure of even high credit-rated banks Europe and the Food and Drug Economic risk where funds are deposited.
Administration FDA in the USA.
The Group may be unable to attract, by itself or from The successful development and The Groups credit risk is concentrated on partners, the funding necessary to meet commercialisation of medicines carries a the five principal banks that hold its bank the high cost of developing its products high level of risk and the returns may be balances and cash, and on its collaboration through to successful commercialisation.
insufficient to cover the costs incurred.
partners and licensees from whom it Restrictions on health budgets worldwide receives licensing fees, development fees, Clinical and regulatory risk or on the prices that may be charged for royalties and proceeds from device sales.
new medicines through competitive or Drug substances may not be stable or other pressures may limit a medicines Liquidity risk economic to produce.
The Group may not be able In order to maintain liquidity to ensure that toxicities or insufficient efficacy in the to attract partners on favourable terms or sufficient funds are available for ongoing chosen indication may cause the medicine recruit the appropriate calibre of staff to operations and future developments, the to fail or limit its applicability.
Lack of develop or commercialise its products.
Any Group closely monitors the cash available performance by third party clinical partners may fail to perform or commit the to the Group, which is invested in a mixture research organisations or an inability to resources necessary to commercialise the of current and short-term deposit accounts.
recruit patients to clinical trials may cause Groups products successfully.
undue delays in clinical trial results.
Clinical Price risk and regulatory issues may arise or The Group is exposed to pricing risk in Financial risk management changes to the regulatory environment respect of its income and expenditure.
The objectives and policies may occur that lead to delays, further Group manages its exposure to price risk costs, reduction in the commercial through commercial negotiations with The Groups activities expose it to a number potential of a product in development, customers and suppliers.
of financial risks including cash flow risk, or the cessation of programmes.
Ethical, credit risk, liquidity risk and price risk.
In regulatory or marketing approvals may be Risk management accordance with policies approved by the delayed or withheld or, if awarded, may Board of Directors, the Group does not use carry unacceptable conditions to further The Groups risk management processes financial derivatives to manage these risks.
The are detailed in the Corporate governance In addition, the Group does not use financial Groups manufacturing facilities and those statement.
of its third party manufacturers are subject to regulatory requirements and licensing Cash flow risk and there can be no assurance that such The Groups activities expose it to the facilities will continue to comply with such financial risks of changes in foreign regulatory requirements.
Given the currency exchange rates.
The majority of cutting-edge nature of the technology, the Groups revenues are in either euros alternative manufacturing facilities may or US dollars.
Where known liabilities arise not be available.
in these currencies the revenues are retained on deposit in the appropriate currency in order to off-set the exchange risk on these liabilities.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 21
