Financial Review 28 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 oating rate obligations as described below under Interest rate risks and Risks and Uncertainties currency swaps are taken primarily to convert the Groups exposure to nonUS dollar currencies into US dollars.
The identi cation and management of risks is integral to Commodity risks Vedantas strategy and to achieve its long-term goals.
Our principal commodities are aluminium, copper, zinc, lead and iron ore.
This diversi ed basket offers a partial hedging mechanism against volatility in the prices of individual commodities.
Of the Groups principal commodities, aluminium, copper, zinc and lead are Risks and risk management practices are undertaken to ensure the Groups priced with reference to LME prices.
Our businesses and operations high standards of internal control are LME prices are in uenced by global are subject to a variety of risks and maintained.
The strength of a businesss demand and supply for these metals uncertainties which are no different internal control environment forms which in turn is in uenced by global from any other company in general a component of senior managers economic scenarios, regional growth, and our competitors in particular.
Further infrastructure spending by governments Such risks are the result of not only details on the Groups internal control and also by speculative activities.
the business environment within environment are provided in the annual which we operate but also of other Corporate Governance Report.
In the case of iron ore, prices are not factors over which we have little or no linked to any metal exchange but are control.
These risks may be categorised Treasury management generally in uenced by all the factors between operational, financial, Our core philosophy in treasury enumerated above which is re ected environmental, health and safety, management revolves around three in the benchmark prices agreed political, market-related and strategic main pillars, namely: a capital between major iron ore suppliers risks.
We have well documented protection: b liquidity maintenance: and steel makers.
We sell iron ore and practised risk management and c yield maximisation.
Treasury under annual price contracts as well policies that act as an effective tool in policies are approved by the Board and as at spot prices determined at the minimising various risks to which our adherence to these policies is strictly time of supplies.
Price uctuations businesses are exposed to during the monitored at our Executive Committee can affect our business assumptions course of their day-to-day operations meetings.
Day-to-day treasury and hence our investment decisions, as well as in their strategic actions.
operations of our Group subsidiaries are operational and financial performance.
managed by the respective subsidiary Risks are identi ed through a formal finance teams within the framework While the Group aims to achieve risk management programme with of the overall Group treasury policies.
average LME prices for a month or for the active involvement of business Long-term fund raising including a year, average realised prices may managers and senior management strategic treasury initiatives are handled not necessarily re ect the LME price personnel at both the subsidiary level by a central team while short-term movements because of a variety of as well as at the corporate level.
Each funding for routine working capital reasons including uneven sales during signi cant risk has an owner within the requirements is delegated to subsidiary the year.
Any uctuation in the prices of Group at a senior level, and the impact companies.
Each of our subsidiaries the metals that we produce and sell will to the Group if a risk materialises and its has a strong internal control system have an immediate and direct impact likelihood of crystallisation is regularly including segregation of front of ce upon the pro tability of our businesses.
A risk register and matrix is and back of ce functions with a maintained, which is regularly updated separate reporting structure.
We have As a general policy, we aim to sell our in consultation with business managers.
a strong system of internal control products at prevailing market prices.
The risk management process is which enables effective monitoring Hedging activity in commodities is coordinated by our management of adherence to Group policies.
undertaken on a strategic basis to a assurance function and is regularly The internal control measures are limited degree and is subject to both reviewed by our Audit Committee.
Key effectively supplemented by regular strict limits laid down by our Board and business decisions are discussed at the management assurance audits.
strictly fide ned internal controls and monthly meetings of the Executive monitoring mechanisms.
Decisions Committee and senior managers We do not purchase or issue derivative relating to hedging of commodities are address risk management issues when financial instruments for trading or taken at the corporate level and with presenting initiatives to the Executive speculative purposes and neither clearly laid down guidelines for their Committee.
The overall internal control do we enter into complex derivative implementation by the subsidiaries.
environment and risk management transactions to manage our treasury programme is reviewed by our Audit and commodity risks.
Derivative Our custom smelting operations of Committee on behalf of the Board.
transactions in both treasury and copper at Tuticorin enjoy a natural commodities are normally in the form hedge except to the extent of a possible Internal controls of forward contracts and interest rate mismatch in quotational periods A strong internal control culture is swaps and currency swaps, which are between the purchase of copper pervasive throughout the Group.
subject to strict guidelines and policies.
concentrate and the sale of nished Regular management assurance visits to Interest rate swaps are taken to achieve copper.
The Groups policy on custom our operations and holding companies a balance between xed rate and smelting is to generate its margins OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 29 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 mainly from TC-RCs, premiums and may result in restrictions such as the control.
We engage the services of sale of by-products.
Hence quotational imposition or increase in royalties, independent experts normally once period mismatches are actively managed mining rights, taxation rates, legislation every three years to ascertain and to ensure that the gains or losses are pertaining to repatriation of money verify the quantum of reserves and minimised.
TC-RCs are a major source and so on.
Changes to government resources including ore grade and of income for the copper smelting policies such as changes in royalty other geological characteristics.
operations in India and therefore are rates, reduction in import tariffs in susceptible to uctuations which are India, reduction in assistance given Delivery of expansion projects on in uenced by factors such as demand by Government of India for exports time and within budget and supply conditions prevailing in the and reduction or curtailment of We have a strong pipeline of green eld market for mine output.
The copper income tax bene ts available to and brown eld expansions projects smelting business actively reviews some of our operations in India and and we have committed funds for its procurement strategy to strike an Zambia are some of the examples these projects.
These projects have appropriate balance between copper of risks under this category.
achieved various stages of completion.
concentrate procured at spot TC-RCs and Our plans to generate suf cient cash those which are sourced at long-term The majority of our Group revenues ows from these projects to repay contractual TC-RCs.
Approximately 60% and pro ts are derived from our long-term debt and our ability to of the copper concentrate consumed in commodities sold to customers in raise further debt are dependent upon FY 2009 came from long-term contracts India.
The performance and growth of the successful completion of these and the balance from the spot market.
our businesses are dependent on the projects on time and under budgeted health of the overall Indian economy.
cost and a faster production ramp-up.
Our Australian mines in Tasmania supply Any downturn in the rate of economic c. 9% of the concentrate requirement growth in India, whether due to Our current and future projects may of the custom smelter at Tuticorin.
political instability or regional con icts be signi cantly delayed by failures This situation adversely impacts the or economic slowdown may have a to receive regulatory approvals or pro tability of the copper smelting material adverse effect on demand for renewal of approvals in a timely business particularly at times when the metals produced and sold by us.
manner, failure to obtain suf cient TC-RCs exhibit a declining trend.
funding, technical dif culties, We insulate ourselves by constantly We may also be affected by the omissions human resources constraints, focusing on reducing unit cash costs at and commissions of political acts of technological or other resource our smelting and re ning operations.
governments in these countries over constraints or for other unforeseen which we have no control.
We strive to reasons, events or circumstances.
KCM is largely an integrated maintain harmonious relationships with copper producer and hence our the governments in these countries and As a result, these projects may incur Group strategy to protect it from actively monitor developments in political, signi cant cost overruns and may copper price uctuations is to regulatory, scal and other areas which not be completed on time, or at all.
focus on controlling its costs.
may have a bearing on our businesses.
We have the necessary resources in all the areas such as technology, Set out below are the key commodity Reserves and resources financial and human resources and price sensitivities on EBITDA The ore reserves stated in this report have successfully completed the resulting from a change of US$ are estimates and represent the majority of our Phase I projects on 100 per tonne in LME prices.
quantities of copper, zinc, iron ore, time and below their budgeted costs, lead and bauxite that we believe could demonstrating our ability to manage Effect on be mined, processed, recovered the successful completion of large EBITDA of Average US$100 and sold at prices suf cient to cover green eld and brown eld projects.
market tonne the estimated future total costs of as price in change FY 2009 in LME production, remaining investment Assets use continuity and insurance US$ tonne US$ million and anticipated additional capital Productive assets in use in mining and Copper 5,885 13.9 expenditures.
Our future pro tability smelting operations and the associated Aluminium 2,234 39.7 and operating margins depend upon power plants may face breakdowns Zinc 1,563 57.9 our ability to access mineral reserves in the normal course of operations or Lead 1,660 8.9 that have geological characteristics due to abnormal events such as re, enabling mining at competitive costs.
explosion, environmental hazards or The above sensitivities are based on FY Replacement reserves may not be other natural calamities.
Our insurance 2009 volumes, costs and exchange rates available when required or, if available, policies may not cover all forms of risks and provide the estimated impact on may not be of a quality capable of due to certain exclusions and limitations.
EBITDA of changes in prices assuming being mined at costs comparable to It may also not be commercially that all other variables remain constant.
the existing or exhausting mines.
feasible to cover all such risks.
Political, legal, economic and Moreover, these estimates are subject Consequently, our insurance coverage regulatory risks to numerous uncertainties inherent may not cover all the claims including for Our mining and smelting operations in estimating quantities of reserves environmental or industrial accidents are located in India, Zambia and and could vary in the future as a result or pollution.
We regularly carry out Australia and our holding and of actual exploration and production extensive work on the adequacy of investment companies are located results, depletion, new information on our insurance coverage by engaging in jurisdictions including the United geology and uctuations in production, consultants and specialists and decide Kingdom, Mauritius and Cyprus.
operating and other costs and economic on the optimal levels of insurance parameters such as metal prices, smelter coverage typical of our industry The political, legal, scal and other treatment charges and exchange in India, Zambia and Australia.
regulatory regimes in these countries rates, many of which are beyond our Financial Review 30 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Risks and Uncertainties continued Safety, health and environment risks and quickly implement them.
We are We aim to minimise this risk by We are engaged in mining activities highly focused on costs and volumes generating suf cient cash ows which are inherently hazardous and and all operational ef ciencies and cost from our current operations which any accident or explosion may cause ef ciencies are discussed regularly at in addition to available cash and cash personal injury or death, property the business review meetings as well equivalents, and liquid financial asset damage or environmental damage at as at the Group Executive Committee investments, and suf cient committed or to its mines, smelters, re neries or meetings.
As metal prices have started funding facilities, will provide liquidity related facilities and also to communities reducing in recent months, we have both in the short term as well as in that live near the mines and plants.
been able to quickly adapt ourselves the long term.
At 31 March 2009, we to the changing market conditions had cash and liquid investments of Such incidents may not only result in and reduce our costs signi cantly.
US$4.9 billion as well as US$1.9 billion expensive litigation, damage claims of committed funding facilities from and penalties but also cause loss of Financial risks and sensitivities our lenders.
We also operate in Zambia Within the areas of financial risk, our supplemented by shortto mediumwhich has a high incidence of HIV AIDS Board has approved policies which term project finance wherever required.
embrace liquidity, currency, interest We accord very high priority to safety, rate, counterparty and commodity risks.
Our balance sheet is strong and gives health and environment matters.
us suf cient headroom for raising Liquidity Risks further debt should the need arise.
Operational risks We require funds both for short-term We generally maintain a healthy Our operations are subject to conditions operational needs as well as for longdebt-equity ratio as well as retain the and events beyond our control term investment programmes, mainly exibility in our nancing structure to that could, among other matters, in growth projects.
The recent global alter this ratio when the need arises.
increase our mining, transportation financial crisis has signi cantly restricted Our contractual cash obligations or production costs, disrupt or halt the supply of credit.
Banks and financial excluding the convertible bond on operations at our mines and production institutions have tightened lending an undiscounted basis by remaining facilities for varying lengths of time or norms.
If this situation continues, our maturity of our financial liabilities arising even permanently.
These conditions ability to raise funds and at attractive in the ordinary course of business at and events include disruptions in mining rates may be signi cantly impacted.
and production due to equipment failures, unexpected maintenance Remaining maturities in US$ million 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total problems and other interruptions, Bank and other borrowings 1,284.8 173.9 1,626.2 1,412.2 4,497.1 non-availability of raw materials of Capital commitments 2,413.7 1,260.3 3,674.0 appropriate quantity and quality for our Total 3,698.5 1,434.2 1,626.2 1,412.2 8,171.1 energy requirements, disruptions to or increased cost of transport services or strikes and industrial actions or At 31 March 2009, we had access to funding facilities of US$7,024.3 million of which US$1,909.5 million was yet to be drawn as set out below.
While many of these risks are beyond our control, we have Funding facilities in US$ million Total facility Drawn Yet to be drawn adequate and competent experience Less than 1 year 3,204.4 1,298.5 1,905.9 in these areas and have consistently 12 years 173.9 173.9 demonstrated our ability to actively 25 years and above 3,645.9 3,642.5 3.4 manage these problems proactively.
Total 7,024.2 5,114.9 1,909.3 It is our policy to realise market prices for our commodities and therefore the pro tability of our operations is The financial statements have been costs are incurred and whose uctuation prepared in accordance with the going may have a signi cant impact on our dependent upon our ability to produce metals at a low cost which in turn is a concern basis of accounting.
Currency exposures also of this basis of accounting takes into exist in the nature of capital expenditure factor of our commercial ef ciencies and higher volumes.
Prices of many of consideration the Groups current and services denominated in currencies and forecast nancing position.
other than the Indian rupee.
KCMs our input materials are in uenced by a variety of factors including demand functional currency is the US dollar Currency Risks with its cost base having a mix of the and supply as well as in ation.
Our presentation currency is the US Zambian kwacha and the US dollar.
A majority of our assets are located Increase in the cost of such input materials would adversely impact our in India where the Indian rupee is the Our Group borrowings are functional currency for our subsidiaries.
predominantly denominated in US competitiveness.
We have consistently demonstrated our ability to manage Operating costs are in uenced by the dollars while a large portion of cash currencies of those countries where our and liquid investments are held in our costs and some of our operations have costs situated in the lowest quartile Groups mines and plants are located.
other currencies, mainly in the Indian A majority of our mines and plants are rupee.
Some financial assets and of the cost curve.
We have a strong commercial function and we identify the located in India and hence the Indian liabilities are not held in the functional rupee is the currency in which most of our currency of the respective subsidiary.
best opportunities for cost reduction OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 31 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 We also hold some intra-Group hedging policy.
The policy is reviewed Counterparty Risks balances in currencies which are periodically to ensure that the risk from We are exposed to counterparty not the functional currency of the uctuating currency exchange rates is credit risks on our investments and respective subsidiary and hence the appropriately managed.
We have clearly fide ned Group is exposed to movements available in the business are identi ed policies to mitigate counterparty risks.
in the functional currency of those at each entity level and hedges are Cash and liquid investments are held entities and the currencies in placed only for the net exposure.
primarily in mutual funds and banks with which these balances are held.
Emphasis is given Short-term net exposures are hedged to the security of investments.
Limits Consequently, currency uctuations progressively based on their maturity.
are fide ned for exposure to individual may have a large impact on our A more conservative approach has counterparties in the case of mutual Group financial results.
We are been adopted for project expenditures fund houses and banks.
Most of the subject to currency risks affecting the to avoid budget overruns.
Longersurplus cash is invested in banks and underlying cost base in the operating term exposures are not hedged.
mutual funds in India where there is a subsidiary companies and also the Stop-loss and take-pro t triggers well developed financial market.
We translation of unit cash costs, income are implemented to protect us from also review the underlying investment statement and the balance sheet adverse market movements, while portfolio of mutual fund houses to including non-US dollar denominated at the same time enabling us to take ensure that indirect exposures or borrowings in the consolidated financial advantage of favourable market latent exposures are minimised.
statements, where the functional opportunities.
Key foreign currency currency is not the US dollar.
sensitivities on EBITDA resulting A large majority of receivables due from a 10.0% movement in exchange from third parties are secured either Foreign currency exposures are rates are set out in the table below.
through advance receipt of money or managed through a Group-wide by use of trade financial instruments such as letters of credit.
Moreover, Closing US dollar Average Impact given the diverse nature of our exchange US dollar of a 10% businesses, trade receivables are spread rate as at exchange movement 31 March rate in in currency over a number of customers with no in US$ million 2009 FY 2009 on EBITDA signi cant concentration of credit Currency risk.
Our history of the collection of Indian rupee 50.95 45.91 265.6 trade receivables shows a negligible Australian dollar 35.02 36.14 8.2 provision for bad and doubtful debts.
Zambian kwacha 5,622 4,196 54.0 Therefore we do not expect any material risk on account of non-performance The above sensitivities are based on FY 2009 volumes, costs and prices by any of the counterparties.
and give the estimated impact on EBITDA of changes in exchange rates assuming that all other variables remain constant.
Employees People are one of our key assets and Interest Risks carrying insigni cant risk and achieving we derive our ability to maintain our At 31 March 2009, our net debt satisfactory returns.
A majority of competitive position from them.
of approximately US$201 million our investments of surplus cash is Therefore, people in general and key comprised cash and liquid of short duration and is in uenced personnel in particular leaving the investments of US$4.9 billion by movements in interest rates.
Additionally, our offset by debt of US$5.1 billion.
inability to recruit and retain good Considering our net debt position at talent would adversely affect us.
We are exposed to the interest rate risk 31 March 2009 and our investments on shortand long-term oating rate in bank deposits and debt mutual Our vision is to build a fast, exible instruments and also on the re nancing funds, any decrease in interest rates and at organisation with world class of xed rate debt.
Our policy is to would result in a net gain and any capabilities and a high performance maintain a balance of xed and oating increase in interest rates would result culture across all of our businesses.
The proportion in a net loss.
Based on our gross debt believe in nurturing leaders from within of xed and oating rate debt is as at 31 March 2009, with all other and providing opportunities for growth determined by current market interest variables remaining constant, a one across all levels and geographies.
As at 31 March 2009, 49.3% of percentage point increase in the US have robust processes and systems our total debt was at a xed rate and dollar LIBOR would impact our pro t in place for leadership development, the balance was at a oating rate.
training and growth to deliver value to the organisation and society.
Our oating rate debt is largely linked An analysis of the weighted average to the US dollar LIBOR.
We also aim to interest rates for debt and cash and We provide superior rewards for minimise the average interest rates current asset investments as at 31 March outstanding performance and have on our borrowings by opting for a 2009 is given in the table below.
a long-term incentive plan which higher proportion of long-term debt covers a large number of employees Investment mainly to fund our growth projects.
A large proportion of our income We have entered into cross currency Interest average workforces are members of a trade Paid xed % yield % interest rate swaps in order to convert union.
We actively communicate and Currency xed rate US dollar borrowings to enter into dialogue with our workforce Indian rupee 10.6% 11.1% oating rate US dollar borrowings.
and believe in maintaining a positive US dollar 7.7% 2.4% Cash and liquid investments are atmosphere by being proactive with invested in short-term deposits and respect to resolution of labour issues.
debt mutual funds to achieve the Some of the investments above triple goal of maintaining liquidity, generate a tax free return.
