38 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES As described in the Corporate Governance Report, there is a and there remains some uncertainty as to the timing and strength of continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any any upturn in this end-market.
significant risks faced by Cookson.
Group management operates a There is also currently some uncertainty as to the degree to which risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing the resurgence in demand experienced in the latter months of 2009 each business and reports to the Audit Committee on how those risks across many of the Groups main businesses will be sustained in 2010. are being managed.
The Board also reviews the role of insurance and Cooksons divisions predominantly supply consumable products, other measures used in managing risks across the Group, receives on short lead times, to the global steel, foundry, electronics and regular reports on any major issues that have arisen during the year precious metals industries.
As such the Groups expectations of and makes an annual assessment of how the risks have changed over future trading are based upon the Directors assessment of endthe period under review.
market conditions, which conditions are subject to some uncertainty.
Throughout its global operations, Cookson faces various risks, both In the event that end-market conditions suffer further significant internal and external, which could have a material impact on the deterioration, Cookson may experience further reductions in trading Groups long-term performance.
Cookson manages the risks inherent activity, a lower share price, the financial failure of one or more of its in its operations in order to mitigate exposure to all forms of risk, key customers and suppliers, asset impairments, lower profitability where practical, and to transfer risk to insurers, where cost-effective.
and a material adverse impact on its financial position.
In such an The risks below are not the only ones that the Group will face.
Some event, management may need to instigate further cost-reduction risks are not yet known and some that are not currently deemed and rationalisation measures to respond to market conditions.
material could later turn out to be material.
All of these risks could Financial indebtedness could limit Cooksons operational flexibility, materially affect the Group, its business, results of future operations particularly in the difficult economic and industry conditions or financial condition.
The existing level of Cooksons financial indebtedness and gearing, The financial performance and financial position of Cookson may combined with covenants contained in its principal debt facility be adversely affected by a significant weakening in demand in its agreements, could: limit flexibility in the management of the core end-markets Group: limit flexibility in making acquisitions: place Cookson at a With operations worldwide, the Groups businesses are subject to competitive disadvantage compared to any competitors that have various risks inherent in their international operations, including less debt: increase Cooksons vulnerability to, and limit its ability to economic, political and operational risks.
The deterioration withstand, continued adverse economic and industry conditions as in financial markets experienced worldwide during 2008 had well as to withstand downturns in demand for its products: and affect an adverse impact on the wider global economy and, in 2009, its ability to obtain raw materials, particularly precious metals, on a recessionary conditions existed in the UK, other EU member states consignment basis.
The principal debt maturities under Cooksons and the US, as well as in other countries where Cookson operates.
debt facilities are in 2011 and 2012 and the Group intends to reduce The depressed economic situation was evidenced by a considerable and or refinance its financial indebtedness on commercially reduction in global steel production, which had a very significant acceptable terms when it falls due beyond the next twelve months.
negative impact, particularly in the first half of 2009, on demand If it is unable to do this, its future prospects, financial position and for Cooksons ceramic refractory products, which are consumable results of operations may be materially adversely affected.
products used in the production of steel and which represent The Groups financial position and trading results may be adversely Cooksons largest single end-market.
A severe deterioration in affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates or the demand from the foundry and the electronics industries, the Groups rate of inflation other main end-markets, also had a significant adverse impact on The Group has no control over changes in foreign currency exchange the Groups trading performance, particularly in the first half of rates, or inflation and interest rates.
In the normal course of business, 2009, although the effects of this were mitigated partly by savings many transactions are carried out by Group businesses in currencies from the cost-saving initiatives introduced by management as the other than their reporting currency, leading to transactional foreign recessionary market conditions began to develop.
In the second half exchange risk, although this is not material for the Group overall.
of 2009, a number of the Groups main businesses saw a resurgence It is Cooksons policy that foreign currency transaction exposures of demand from their end-markets, which led to a significantly that are material at an individual operating unit level are hedged improved level of trading performance compared to the first half using appropriate instruments such as forward foreign exchange of the year, again aided by the Groups now significantly lower cost contracts.
The Group does not currently hedge translation exposures base.
However, some Group businesses, notably the Foundry product arising on unremitted non-UK earnings.
While the Group attempts to line of the Ceramics division, experienced only limited improvement cooksongroup.
co. uk manage transactional and balance sheet translation risks associated ability to operate and to operate profitably in the affected with currency exchange rate fluctuations through its hedging and jurisdictions.
Should the Groups businesses fail to comply with funding policies, fluctuations in the value of currencies in which it applicable legal and regulatory requirements, this may result in a operates may nevertheless adversely impact the Groups financial financial loss or restriction on the businesses ability to operate.
position, results of operations and ability to comply with its financial The Groups businesses are subject to a variety of operational risks, covenants.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its interest rate including the risk of possible natural catastrophe, terrorist action exposures using interest rate swap agreements or other instruments: and fraud.
If any of the operational risks materialise, this could result however, fluctuations in interest rates could materially adversely in a substantial interruption to a facility, a potential loss of customers impact the Groups results of operations.
and revenue and financial loss, which could have a material adverse A withdrawal or reduction of precious metal consignment effect on the Groups future prospects, financial position and results arrangements, or increased precious metal prices resulting in of operations.
consignment lines being fully utilised, may cause a shortage of raw The Group may suffer losses should a counterparty fail to perform materials or may require precious metals to be supplied in a way as contracted which would materially increase the Groups financial indebtedness The Group transacts business with and through a number of The Groups precious metal fabrication operations utilise significant counterparties, including customers, suppliers, financial institutions quantities of precious metals, primarily gold by value.
The financial failure of one or more of the Groups key are held predominantly on consignment under arrangements the customers and suppliers may result in financial loss, loss of future terms of which provide, inter alia, that the consignor retains title to business and a shortage of raw material supplies.
In managing the the metal and has a right of return over the metal without penalty risks inherent in its operations, Cookson transfers risk to insurers unless the consignee purchases such metal at a market price for such where cost-effective and, accordingly, the financial failure of one or metal plus a premium.
Consignors are party to either committed or more insurers used by the Group may result in a financial loss to uncommitted arrangements.
the consignor has no obligation to supply the precious metal to the Cash deposits and other financial instruments held with or through Groups fabrication operations and has the right, with limited or in financial institutions give rise to credit risk, represented by the loss some cases no notice, to demand physical return or purchase of its that would be recognised should a counterparty fail to perform as consigned metal.
As the consignors retain title and associated risks contracted.
It is Cooksons policy to limit the latter counterparty and benefits of ownership under these arrangements, the physical exposure by dealing with reputable financial institutions and metal so held is not recorded in the Group balance sheet.
The monitoring the credit ratings of those counterparties on a regular utilisation of consigned precious metals is established practice in the basis in accordance with Board approved guidelines.
However, there precious metals industry.
Should precious metals consignors decide can be no assurance that this policy will effectively eliminate such to reduce or withdraw the facilities for whatever reason, or require exposure.
Any counterparty default may have a material adverse a return of the consigned metal, or increased metal prices lead to effect on Cooksons future prospects, results of operations and the consignment arrangements becoming fully utilised, the Groups financial condition.
precious metal fabrication operations may suffer shortages of raw materials or may require precious metals to be supplied in a way The Group may lose customers to competitors with new which would materially increase the Groups financial indebtedness.
technologies if its businesses do not adequately adapt to market In either case, the Groups business, financial position and results of developments operations may be materially adversely affected.
The Group supplies materials and services primarily to the steel, The Groups worldwide operations and businesses may be foundry and electronics industries on a global basis and to the adversely affected by various political, legal, regulatory and other jewellery industry primarily in the US and Europe.
The markets in developments in countries in which it operates which many of the Groups businesses operate can experience rapid changes due to the introduction of new technologies.
The Groups Political risks include the imposition of trade barriers, changes of continued success depends upon its ability to continue to develop regulatory requirements and the volatility of input costs, selling and produce new and enhanced products and services on a costprices, taxes and currencies.
The Group is subject to various legal effective and timely basis in accordance with customer demands.
and regulatory regimes, including those covering taxation and In addition, the markets for the Groups products are competitive in environmental matters.
Future global political, legal or regulatory terms of pricing, product and service quality, product development developments concerning the businesses may affect the businesses 40 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED and introduction time, customer service, financing terms and other any of these subsidiaries.
Provision is made for amounts payable similar factors.
Cookson invests significant amounts in research in respect of known or probable costs.
Management believes, and development to sustain its competitive advantage and takes taking into account legal advice received, the Groups insurance appropriate action to ensure that its cost base remains competitive.
arrangements, indemnification provided by former owners of certain If the Group fails to adequately adapt to market developments of the subsidiaries impacted and financial provisions, that none of related to new products and technology, it could lose customers the currently pending or potential claims will, either individually or to suppliers with new technology which allows them to supply in the aggregate, have a material adverse impact on the Groups customers with better products or products which can be supplied financial position and results of operations.
However, the outcome of more cheaply and or easily than Cooksons products.
Alternatively legal action is uncertain and there is always the risk that it may prove or additionally, the Group could fail to achieve its anticipated returns more costly than expected and exceed the level of insurance cover, on the amounts it has invested in research and development.
These indemnifications and provisions made, which may have a material outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future adverse effect on the Groups future prospects, financial position and prospects, financial position and results of operations.
The Groups future prospects, financial position and results of If the Group fails or is unable to protect, maintain and enforce its operations could be adversely affected if it is unable to pass on to intellectual property, the Group may lose its exclusive right to use its customers fluctuations in the prices of the raw materials which its technologies and processes it purchases The Group relies on a combination of trade secrets, patents, Tin, solvents, alumina, graphite, silver and gold are among the confidentiality procedures and agreements, and copyright and trade principal raw materials that the Group purchases.
The Groups mark laws to protect its proprietary rights.
The existence of complex businesses may be affected by fluctuations in the price and supply factual and legal issues may give rise to uncertainty as to the of such raw materials.
The Groups ability to pass on increases or validity, scope and enforceability of a particular patent or practice.
decreases in the cost of raw materials to its customers is, to a large If the Group fails to or is unable to protect, maintain and enforce extent, dependent upon market conditions, established market its existing intellectual property, this may result in the loss of the practice and terms of trade.
If the Groups ability to pass on increases Groups exclusive right to use technologies and processes which are in the cost of raw materials is limited, this could have a material included or used in its businesses.
In addition, the laws of certain adverse effect on the Groups future prospects, financial position and foreign countries in which the Group operates may not protect results of operations.
proprietary rights to the same extent as those of the UK or the US.
The Groups financial condition may be materially adversely The Group has applied for patents in a number of jurisdictions, affected by any significant liabilities for any defects of its products including in Europe and the US.
These applications are at various or services stages in the application process and patents may not be issued, or may be issued in a form narrower than the Groups applications.
If A large proportion of the Groups products are used in the some of the patents or patent applications are not granted, expire manufacturing processes of the Groups industrial customers.
If a or are successfully attacked, the Group may be unable to exclude product of the Group or of one of the Groups industrial customers competitors from using the technology covered by them.
The Group does not conform to agreed specifications or is otherwise defective, has also acquired patents and patent applications from other parties.
the Group may be subject to claims by its customers arising from The Group could become subject to lawsuits in which it is alleged end-product defects, injury to individuals or other such claims.
that it has infringed the intellectual property rights of others or the The Groups current and former businesses have used and Group could commence lawsuits against others whom it believes are or continue to use a wide range of hazardous materials, in the infringing upon its rights.
The Groups involvement in intellectual manufacture of industrial and consumer products.
Legal claims property litigation could result in significant expense, materially have been brought against certain Group companies by third parties adversely affecting the development of sales of the challenged alleging that persons have been harmed by exposure to such product or intellectual property and or diverting the efforts of the materials, and further claims may be brought in the future.
Certain Groups technical and management personnel.
of the Groups subsidiaries are subject to suits, predominantly in the US, relating to products containing asbestos manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by the Group.
These suits usually also name many other product manufacturers.
To date, the Group is not aware of there being any liability verdicts against cooksongroup.
co. uk Future expenditure on compliance with environmental and health required by international accounting standards, uses a discount rate and safety laws and regulations may materially adversely affect based on the yield on high quality corporate bonds.
The use of a the Groups future prospects, financial position and results of lower discount rate for actuarial valuation and funding purposes operations results in a lower funding level of pension assets to liabilities.
The funding levels of the Groups pension plans are also subject to The Group is subject to applicable laws and regulations in all of adverse change resulting from movements in the other actuarial the jurisdictions in which it operates, including those relating to assumptions underlying the calculation of plan liabilities, including pollution, the protection of the environment, human health and increasing inflation rates and increasing longevity of plan members safety, the disposal of hazardous substances and waste materials and and also from a decline in the market value of plan investments.
remediation of any land or water contaminated by such substances.
Adverse changes in these underlying factors could result in Violations of legal or other regulatory requirements could result increased cash contributions being required by funding agreements in restrictions on operations, the imposition of more stringent with pension trustees or under local regulatory requirements and permitting conditions, damages, fines or other sanctions, all of which could materially impact the Groups financial position.
may have a material adverse effect on the Groups future prospects, financial position and results of operations.
While the Board believes Additional funding contributions into the Groups UK defined benefit that the current and expected expenditures and risks connected pension plan may need to be made in response to a request from with these and potential future liabilities are unlikely to impair the the plan Trustee should the Groups financial position deteriorate Groups financial position materially, there can be no assurance that to a level which, in the opinion of the Trustee, materially impacts the costs related to such liabilities will not exceed current or future its financial covenant from Cookson financial and insurance provisions which may result in a material The Trustee of the Groups UK pension plan is responsible, adverse effect on the Groups future prospects, financial position and in consultation with Cookson, for setting the level of funding results of operations.
The schedule of contributions currently The Groups financial position and results of operations may be in place aims at funding, by the end of June 2015, the plan deficit materially adversely affected by any significant liabilities arising disclosed in the most recent actuarial valuation.
This schedule of pursuant to indemnities or breaches of representations or contributions is underwritten by the Trustees assessment of the warranties in contracts for the divestment of certain of its former strength of the employers covenant between Cookson and the companies and businesses Trustee, being the Trustees assessment of Cooksons ability to meet those future funding payments as they fall due.
Should Cooksons The Group has divested its interests in certain companies and financial position deteriorate materially for whatever reason, the businesses and has given indemnifications, representations and Trustee may demand, in consultation with Cookson, an increase in warranties with respect to the businesses of the divested companies funding contributions to fund part or the whole of any outstanding at the time of their divestment.
Management believes that sufficient funding deficit in the plan at that time.
Additional funding provisions are in place to meet possible claims resulting from contributions paid to meet such a demand could have a material these indemnifications, representations and warranties.
However, adverse impact on the financial position of Cookson.
significant liabilities arising out of these transactions may arise in the future which have not been provided for and the emergence of Depending on performance and market conditions, Cookson may such liabilities may have a material adverse effect on the Groups not pay out cash dividends in the foreseeable future, or may pay financial position and results of operations.
out smaller dividends than the market expects The funding level of the Groups pension plans may be detrimentally The Board has recently reviewed Cooksons near-term dividend affected by adverse changes in the actuarial assumptions policy in response to the recent global financial crisis and challenging underlying the plan liabilities and or a decline in the market value trading conditions.
As a consequence no interim dividend was of plan investments declared and no final dividend will be recommended to shareholders in respect of the 2009 financial year.
A decision to resume dividend The Group operates defined benefit pension plans, principally in the payments will be made once a sustained recovery can be seen in UK and the US, where the Groups largest plans are located, each of our end-markets and trading performance, and in the context of the which is closed to new members.
The Groups largest US plans are Groups cash requirements at that time.
There can be no assurance also closed to further benefit accrual for existing members and it has as to whether cash dividends or similar payments will be paid out in been announced that consultation will take place on the proposed the foreseeable future or of their amount.
closure of the UK defined benefit pension plan to future benefit accrual for existing members.
The calculation of plan liabilities, as
