48 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Key risks and uncertainties The Board is committed to ensuring that high quality risk management systems are in place across the Group.
The objective of these systems is to support the delivery of long-term sustainable returns for shareholders and to safeguard the interests of customers and employees through the effective management of risk.
Group risk management process The Groups management operates a risk assessment process to identify and assess the risks affecting business performance.
The process requires each business division to identify the key risks to their plans, their likelihood and impact, and the actions being taken to manage those risks.
Divisional risk registers are reviewed by their respective management teams and at Group level through monthly business reviews.
The Audit Committee reviews the consolidated risk profile at least twice a year.
The internal audit team independently reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk assessment and internal control policies and reports its findings at least quarterly to the Audit Committee.
The Committee reviews and challenges the assurance procedures, ensuring that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the level of assurances required by the Board.
Contract performance management A significant proportion of our business derives from long-term, fixed-price contracts with customers.
The challenge to our business is the management of these long-term contracts to our customers satisfaction whilst maintaining expected returns.
Should we fail to anticipate operational problems, to meet customer expectations or should the costs of performing the contract exceed the projected cost on which the original pricing was based, there is a risk of achieving lower than expected returns or losses.
In addition, as a government contractor, the Group is subject to financial audits and other reviews.
As a result, costs and prices under these contracts may be subject to adjustment.
To address these risks, we hold regular project appraisals, maintain continued dialogue with customers and are progressively applying our project lifecycle framework to contracts across the Group.
All major contracts in all business divisions have a risk identification and management process in place and significant risks are considered for inclusion in divisional risk registers.
Growth strategy and major bid pricing The Groups expansion encompasses organic growth, acquisitions and potentially entry into new markets.
Both acquisitions and entry into new markets bring with them an extra element of risk as they may involve activities not currently carried out by the Group.
This could impact the Groups reputation, financial condition or operating results.
In addition, problems encountered in integrating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses could adversely impact the Groups operations.
To address these risks we undertake extensive due diligence, carefully consider the Groups ability to manage and fund any new activities arising, and insist that all such activities require Board approval.
Given the long-term nature of many of the Groups contracts, there is a risk that the terms negotiated at the start of a contract could prove unfavourable, leading to returns that are lower than expected.
The Group manages this risk via a rigorous bid acceptance process, with major bids requiring Board approval.
Dependence on government contracts A significant proportion of our business derives from governments and the Group is, therefore, susceptible to changes in government policy, budget allocations and the political environment, both in the UK and overseas.
The Group has sought to address this risk in recent years by diversifying its service offering from a largely UK-based defence-oriented business to the provision of a broader range of services internationally.
The recent US presidential election may lead to a change in spending priorities, with a risk that defence allocations are reduced in favour of other needs.
However, given the nature of the Groups business, we do not anticipate any material effect from such a change.
Financial risk and capital management The current economic climate and resulting turmoil in the financial markets has led to tighter lending criteria being implemented by financial institutions that may restrict business operations or increase the cost of borrowing.
As outlined in the Financial review, VT Group has committed facilities available of 80m until March 2011 and 225m until November 2011 under which 175.1m of headroom remains undrawn.
Tightening in the financial markets may also lead to delays in achieving financial close for Private Finance Initiative PFI contracts.
For example, VT Group is currently in the latter stages of negotiation on the Wakefield waste processing facility and current indications are that the relevant financing will be concluded in the first half of our next financial year.
The Groups policies for the management of capital and financial risk, including liquidity, credit and market risk, are detailed in the Financial review and note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 49 Changes in laws and regulations The Group is subject to various laws and regulations in different jurisdictions, including state aid, procurement, export control, taxation and environmental, health and safety laws.
These laws and regulations are complex, subject to change, and can vary from country to country.
The Group addresses this risk through formal compliance policies and by employing suitably qualified individuals and retaining appropriate professional advisors.
Environmental and health and safety liabilities The Groups operating businesses are exposed to risks associated with the contamination of their sites and former sites, non-compliance with environmental, health and safety law and personal injury claims resulting from injuries sustained at work, including historical exposure to asbestos.
The Group is fully committed to maintaining a framework of Group-wide policies and procedures to minimise these risks.
Dependence on key people The recruitment, retention and development of highly skilled competent people is key to the success of the Group.
The failure to attract and retain key personnel could materially affect our ability to achieve the Groups planned strategic growth.
We manage this risk by actively engaging with our people through communication forums and have introduced an employee opinion survey to obtain a better understanding of the range of issues that contribute to staff satisfaction.
Joint ventures The Group has a number of joint ventures.
Given their importance to the Group, the boards of these joint ventures include executive directors and members of the Group Executive Committee GEC who are responsible for representing the Groups interests.
These individuals maintain regular dialogue with key stakeholders and are involved in operations as appropriate.
Pensions The Group participates in certain defined benefit pension schemes.
As at 31 March 2009, these schemes had deficits, net of related deferred tax assets, of 43.6m.
The Group is making contributions to make good these deficits over a period of years.
The performance of the Groups pension scheme and deficit recovery plans are regularly reviewed by both the Board and the Trustees of the pension scheme.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year
