30 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Principal risks & uncertainties Risk is inherent in the Groups business activities and as a consequence of operating a comprehensive risk management process, the Group has identified the following principal risks and uncertainties which it believes could have a materially adverse effect on its business, revenues, profit, assets, liquidity, resources and reputation.
The nature of risk is such that no list can be comprehensive and it is possible that other risks may arise, or that risks not currently considered material may become so in the future.
Any forward-looking statements in the annual report or otherwise made by the Group should be considered in light of these risk factors.
The Group operates controls as described in the Corporate governance report to mitigate against these risks.
RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Global political and economic conditions The Group operates in a number of regions While benefiting from the opportunities and The Groups diversified geographic footprint where it may be exposed to economic, political, growth in these regions, changes such as the mitigates against any exposure within any regulatory or business risks.
introduction of new regulations, expropriation one country in which it operates.
of assets or the imposition of trade barriers Management monitor such risks and amend could disrupt the Groups business activities business procedures accordingly, while or impact on the Groups customers, suppliers remaining in compliance with local and or other parties with which it does business.
In some instances, this could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position In addition, strategic reviews are carried out and prospects.
by the Group prior to entry into a new country.
Human resources The future success of the Group depends on If it is unable to attract and retain excellent The Group constantly reviews its remuneration the skills and efforts of its employees across all talent, the Group may not be able to effectively packages to ensure they remain competitive of its businesses and the ability to retain and implement its business strategies.
and also maintains development and develop these individuals.
In addition, the success of Group acquisitions The Groups employee development will depend on the ability to retain management programmes are explained in more detail personnel of acquired companies.
Health and safety Certain aspects of the Groups manufacturing If the Group cannot maintain a safe place of The Group is committed to maintaining a safe and service activities mean that employees are work for all its employees, a number of negative working environment and a culture of zero exposed to hazardous environments.
outcomes to the Group could result including: tolerance to accidents.
To support this, all operations are encouraged to achieve OHSAS fines and penalties: 18001.
More details of this are contained on page 49. loss of key customers: The Group has in place quality and safety exclusion from market sectors deemed processes within each of its businesses which important for future growth: and are regularly audited by professional bodies damage to reputation.
31 RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Environmental and regulatory The Group has contracts and operations in Failure by the Group, or agents acting on The Group has formal systems and policies many parts of the world and is subject to local its behalf, to comply with these laws and in place which are mandated under the Group laws and regulations.
Non-compliance with any regulations could result in administrative, civil compliance scorecard to ensure adherence of these laws or regulations could expose the or criminal liabilities resulting in significant fines to regulatory requirements and to identify any Group to financial or reputational damage.
and penalties and or debarment of the Group restrictions that could adversely impact on the from government contracts for a period of Groups activities.
More detail on this can be In addition, manufacturing facilities are, at times, time or affect the Groups future operational found on pages 38 and 39. subject to permits that control the discharge performance or financial condition.
of hazardous substances into the air or water: Each of the Groups operational sites have and the storage and disposal of such materials managers who monitor regulatory developments.
which could result in contamination of the site.
All sites have to be ISO 14001 compliant in It is expected that controls over environmental order that they not only meet with current issues will increase in the future.
requirements but also have the appropriate management systems in place to ensure continuous improvement in environmental performance.
More detail on this is contained on page 51.
Legal Manufacturing companies are, from time to The Group has insurance cover for certain The Group has internal policies and time, exposed to personal injury claims and claims but not for all the claims.
The number procedures for monitoring these risks, class actions or other litigation resulting from and size of the claims is dependent on the managing and mitigating against these injuries sustained at work, including asbestosis number of third parties that are still in existence liabilities and to ensure that there is regular or other health problems associated from and can be included in such actions.
Both of reporting to the Board on any changes working in industries that used asbestos in these can change over time and as a result the or developments.
Competition and innovation The Group competes against large and well All new or improved technologies and products To remain competitive, the Group invests established global companies, as well as local involve risk, including the potential for abortive continuously in its manufacturing, marketing, companies and low cost replicators of spare expenditure, reputational risk and potential customer service support and distribution parts, on the basis of price, technical expertise, customer claims.
The Group also maintains timeliness of delivery, previous installation the highest manufacturing and quality In addition, the Groups processes to bring a history and reputation for quality and reliability.
standards which include regular dialogue new product to market may not be fast enough with customers to ensure that individual The Groups continued success depends to gain market share or the new product customer requirements are met.
It also takes not only on the continuous improvement of may not achieve market acceptance, thereby appropriate action to ensure that its cost base its existing product portfolio but its ability to harming the Groups reputation.
remains competitive and margins protected.
continue to develop and produce new and enhanced products in a cost effective and timely The diversity of operations reduces the manner in accordance with customer demands.
possible effect of action by a single competitor and combined with the application of the Failure to maintain a competitive advantage Weir Production System ensures the Groups or manufacture at the lowest cost could competitive advantage is sustained.
have a significant adverse impact on the Groups business.
32 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Principal risks & uncertainties continued RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Financial The Group is exposed to foreign currency, Foreign currency transactional and translational Foreign currency transactional risk is managed liquidity and credit risk.
risk could result in volatility in reported by hedging significant exposures, usually by consolidated earnings and net assets.
means of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Foreign currency transactional risk arises when operating subsidiaries enter into transactions Credit risk could have a negative impact on Net assets translational risk is partly hedged denominated in currencies other than their reported earnings and cash and consequently using foreign currency borrowings and functional currencies.
the liquidity of the Group.
The Group does not hedge translational exposure arising Translational exposure arises on the translation Liquidity risk could impact negatively on from profit and loss items.
of overseas earnings and investments into the Groups reputation, borrowing costs sterling for consolidated reporting purposes.
or ultimately its ability to continue as a Credit risk is managed by undertaking credit going concern.
reviews of key customers with reference Credit risk is the risk that a customer or to external credit rating agencies and then counterparty fails to meet an obligation under adhering to the resultant credit limits.
Credit a contract and liquidity risk is the risk that the risk to financial institutions is limited by Group will be unable to meet its liabilities as restricting the range of counterparties to they fall due.
those with high credit ratings.
Liquidity risk is managed by monitoring forecast and actual cashflows and ensuring that sufficient committed facilities are in place to meet possible downside scenarios.
Acquisitions The anticipated benefits of acquisitions may While the Group identifies expected synergies, The Group implements a rigorous due not be realised.
cost savings and growth opportunities prior diligence process and ensures clear financial to completing any acquisition, these benefits targets are in place as well as putting any may not always be achieved or within the acquisition through a formal approval process.
The Group implements an internal 100 day plan to ensure that the integration process is actioned with the minimum of disruption.
Delivery performance and production The Groups ability to meet customer delivery Failure to deliver in accordance with customer Manufacturing scheduling and planning schedules is dependent on a number of factors expectation could subject the Group to financial is subject to stringent internal assurance including sufficient manufacturing capacity, penalties, damage customer relationships and, processes to optimise each business units access to raw materials, inventory control, as a result, impact on the Groups financial order book.
The effect of this is to maximise sufficient trained and equipped employees, performance.
capacity and minimise reworking costs and engineering expertise and the appropriate delays in delivery times.
This is complemented planning and scheduling of the manufacturing by the use of the Groups Manufacturing process.
Many of the contracts it enters into Resource Planning systems, together with the require long lead times and therefore contain slotting and scheduling achieved through the clauses in relation to on-time delivery.
