4 Directors Report and Accounts Directors report continued to this conclusion, the Audit Committee Going concern By order of the Board.
gave full consideration to the non-audit After making enquiries, the directors work carried out by Ernst & Young LLP.
have a reasonable expectation that the Simon Barratt The Audit Committee has considered Company and the Group have adequate General Counsel and Company Secretary what work should not be carried out by resources to continue in operational the external auditor and have concluded existence for the foreseeable future.
27 April 2009 that certain services, including internal Accordingly, they continue to adopt the audit, acquisition due diligence and IT going concern basis in preparing the Registered Offi ce: consulting services, will not be carried annual report and accounts.
Whitbread Court out by Ernst & Young LLP.
Houghton Hall Business Park Annual General Meeting Porz Avenue Disclosure of information to auditor The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on Dunstable The directors have taken all reasonable 16 June 2009 at the Queen Elizabeth II Bedfordshire steps to make themselves aware Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, LU5 5XE of relevant audit information and to Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The establish that the auditor is aware of that notice of meeting is enclosed with this Registered in England: No.
The directors are not aware report for those shareholders receiving of any relevant audit information which hard copy documents, and available has not been disclosed to the auditor.
co. uk for those who elected to receive documents electronically.
Pages 1 to 5 inclusive consist of a directors report that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The Annual Review and Summary Report 2008 09 and the Directors Report and Accounts contain certain statements about the future outlook for the Group.
Although the Company believes that the expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any statements about future outlook may be in uenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different.
Appendix to the directors report risks and uncertainties Shareholder value risk Strategic risks expect.
Guest recommendation is one of Risk: The failure to meet the profi t Risk: The loss of market share to the key elements of the WINcard see page expectations of the Companys investors competitors.
18 of the Annual Review for further details.
Mitigation: The activities and performance of Mitigation: The Company has a range Whitbreads competitors are analysed and Risk: The failure to deliver growth targets of management processes designed to compared to the activities and performance for Premier Inn and Costa.
keep track of progress against its targets.
of Whitbreads own businesses on a Mitigation: Suitable development and Each part of the Group agrees an annual regular basis.
Action plans are produced as fi financial resources are in place in order budget with the Board, which includes appropriate.
Each of Whitbreads businesses to deliver the planned Premier Inn room a profi t target for the year ahead.
The carries out market research and analyses growth and Costa store growth.
Companys employees are incentivised consumer trends in the UK and overseas.
to meet those targets and monthly This information is used to anticipate future Risk: A signifi cant continuation of the management reports are produced.
consumer trends and to allow Whitbread to economic downturn.
These reports are reviewed by the position itself to benefi t from those trends.
Mitigation: The Company carries out a Costa and WHR Management Boards, regular review of signifi cant economic and the Executive Committee and the In addition, Whitbread listens to its other key indicators as part of the business Companys Board.
Premier Inn, for example, planning and budgeting process.
Plans are produced through the year and quarterly obtained feedback from more than 400,000 then developed, implemented, monitored trading updates, together with an investor customers last year and used the feedback and measured.
relations programme ensure that investors to ensure that it continues to offer the type are kept up to date with developments.
and quality of services that its customers www.
co. uk annualreport0809 5 Risk: The failure to recruit and retain key Risk: A major failure of the supply chain.
can be found in the Finance Directors employees.
Mitigation: Appropriate business review on page 13 of the Annual Review.
Mitigation: Whitbread listens to the views continuity plans for the supply chain The risk is further mitigated by the of its employees and has a range of have been established, including the expertise of the pension fund trustee employment policies designed to make identification of alternative suppliers.
board and its investment committee and Whitbread a rewarding place to work.
Whitbread has identified its key suppliers the process is overseen by the Board.
Remuneration packages are benchmarked and sought confirmation that those to ensure that they remain competitive suppliers have suitable disaster recovery Risk: Failure of a third party to a and a talent review process has been plans in place.
In addition companies established to provide structured within the Group are party to leases of succession planning.
Employee turnover Financial risks properties relating to businesses which is analysed on a monthly basis and exit Risk: The breach of loan facility covenants have been sold where the Groups interviews are carried out to establish why or failure to obtain refinancing.
interests in the leases have been assigned some employees do choose to leave.
Mitigation: The Company has signed facility to a third party.
If the third party defaults in agreements in place.
Ongoing reviews and its obligations under those leases such as Operational risks stress testing of banking covenants are when the third party becomes insolvent, Risk: A major health and safety failure carried out and relationships with the banks the landlord may be able to hold the leading to significant injury or loss of are maintained.
original Whitbread company which life and or significant damage to the entered into the lease liable to meet the Companys reputation.
Risk: The possibility of a significant obligations under the lease.
This is a risk Mitigation: The Company has financial reporting error.
carried by all companies selling leasehold established a rigorous health and Mitigation: The Company ensures that interests, but is heightened in times of safety training programme and regular only appropriately qualified people are economic downturn.
independent audits are carried out to tasked with carrying out key financial Mitigation: Whitbread carries out credit ensure that procedures are followed.
functions and believes that it has control checks and undertakes auditing Health and safety is one of the key significant expertise within its finance and monitoring of third parties.
A review measures on the WINcard see page team.
Duties are segregated where has been carried out of the potential for 18 of the Annual Review for further appropriate and reviews of processes privity claims.
details and regular updates are made and externally reported numbers are to the management boards and to the undertaken both by the Audit Committee Risk: Loss arising from lack of controls Companys Board.
Mitigation: Whitbread has established a Risk: The general quality of food served Risk: Whitbread operates a defined benefit rigorous approval process and the legal in the Companys outlets not being pension scheme.
At 26 February 2009, and corporate finance teams are involved acceptable.
there was a gross pension fund IAS 19 in decisions related to international Mitigation: Whitbread has implemented deficit of 233.0 million.
There is a risk that expansion.
Suitable project teams are a robust supplier audit programme.
The this deficit could grow in the event of poor established by senior management selection process for food suppliers investment performance or increasing and monthly updates are given to the includes exacting food safety and life expectancy.
Legislation means that, management boards.
provenance pre-qualification and on occasions, it may be necessary to Whitbread maintains a multi-region approach the Pensions Regulator for presourcing strategy where appropriate.
clearance of agreements reached with the Suitable training programmes have been Pension Trustee at the time of significant developed for kitchen staff.
Such clearance may include a requirement to increase the Risk: A significant failure by the level of funding over a reduced timescale.
providers of the newly outsourced finance planning and HR systems.
Mitigation: Whitbreads pension risks Mitigation: Appropriate project plans have been mitigated by the closure of have been established and strong the defined benefits scheme to new management teams have been entrants on 31 December 2001.
A appointed to manage the outsourcing.
defined contribution pension scheme Monitoring visits will be made to the is available to eligible new employees.
In order to reduce the funding deficit in the scheme, the Group has made Risk: The failure of key IT systems for a additional contributions of 200 million sustained period.
Details of an Mitigation: Audit and monitoring of third agreement in principle relating to future party suppliers and appropriate business funding following the result of the triennial continuity plans for IT systems have valuation as at 31 March 2009 showing a been developed.
deficit on a funding basis of 388 million www.
