22 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Risks and uncertainties Like all businesses, our business faces risks and uncertainties the risks associated with food safety throughout our Group that could impact on the Groups achievement of its and its supply chain.
Food hygiene practices are taken very objectives.
Risk is accepted as being a part of doing business seriously throughout our Group, and are monitored both and within the Group, responsibility for risk management and through internal audit procedures and external bodies such internal control lies with the Board.
Through the application as environmental health departments.
We have well prepared of reasoned judgement and consideration of the likelihood and procedures for crisis management in order to act quickly consequence of events, the Board believes a successful risk when required.
management framework balances risk and reward.
We are aware that if we fail or are perceived to have failed to The list below sets out the most significant risks to the deliver, to our customers satisfaction, the expected standards achievement of the Groups business goals.
The list does not of quality and safety in our products this has the potential include all risks that the Group faces and it does not list the to impact on their loyalty to us.
This in turn could adversely risks in any order of priority.
impact on our market share and our financial results.
Business strategy Regulation In the long term, effectively managing the strategic risks that The Group operates in an environment governed by strict the Group faces will deliver benefits to all our stakeholders.
regulations to ensure the safety and protection of customers, The Board understands that if the strategy and vision are not shareholders, staff and other stakeholders and the operation properly formulated or communicated then the business may of an open and competitive market.
The strategy is developed by the Chief Executive and food hygiene, health and safety, the handling of hazardous senior executives and is considered and approved by the Board, materials, data protection, the rules of the stock exchange and which takes time each year to review and monitor its delivery.
In all cases, the Board takes its responsibilities very seriously, and recognises that any breach of regulation To ensure that our strategy is communicated and understood, could cause reputational and financial damage to the Group.
the Group engages with a wide range of stakeholders including There is clear, ultimate accountability with Directors for shareholders, employees, suppliers and other groups.
This compliance with all areas of regulation.
continual process helps to ensure that the strategy remains relevant and improves the likelihood of success.
The grocery sector continues to be under close focus from the Office of Fair Trading OFT despite the Competition The Board is conscious of the difficult economic environment Commissions findings that the sector is highly competitive.
in which it operates, with rising unemployment, reduced The OFT has issued Statements of Objection in relation spending power and high levels of anxiety amongst customers.
to conduct in the milk and tobacco categories in the early The Groups operating plans have been developed with this part of the millennium.
We always fully co-operate with backdrop in mind, ensuring that there is a strong emphasis on such enquiries.
In the case of milk, we believe strongly value in our product offering and a focus on cost control that Morrisons has no case to answer and have made in the business.
representations in detail to this effect.
In the case of Financial and treasury tobacco, there is a complex legal question as to whether The Groups financial results may be subject to volatility arising well established industry practices represented a breach f of competition law.
It is likely that this can only be settled rom movements in commodity prices, foreign currencies, through a formal judicial process.
interest rates and the availability of sources of funding.
Corporate Social Responsibility Product quality and safety In line with our commercial objectives we have identified three We recognise that the quality and safety of our products is areas, Environment, Society and Business where by doing the of critical importance to us and that any failure in this regard right thing, we protect valuable resources, meet demand for would affect the confidence of our customers in us.
We work sustainable products and make our business more efficient.
with our suppliers to ensure the integrity of the products Morrisons is committed to taking good care of our environment supplied.
Also, as a manufacturer of food products, we and if we fail to meet our commitments this could damage our maintain strict standards and monitoring processes to manage reputation and possibly lose the trust of our stakeholders.
Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 23 Therefore, reporting to the Board is a cross functional steering to absorb a level of change without this having a detrimental group of senior executives that ensures that the appropriate impact on continuing business operations.
The change management, evaluation and verification systems are programmes within the Group have been designed with this integrated into operational management activities.
Delivery capacity in mind, and are structured and governed in a manner against targets and key performance indicators is regularly that allows the Board to monitor their impact.
Most of the monitored and reported.
Further information is available in Groups systems projects are in the design and development our Corporate Social Responsibility summary on page 24. phases, with implementation activities starting more significantly in 2010. Business interruption Our distribution and systems infrastructures are fundamental Employee engagement and retention to ensuring the normal c The continued success of the Group relies heavily on the ontinuity of trading in our stores.
If a in major incident occurred to this infrastructure or another key vestment in the training and development of our 124,000 facility this would have a detrimental impact on the business employees.
The Groups employment policies, remuneration ability to operate effectively.
To reduce the chances of this and benefits packages are designed to be competitive, as well happening and also to reduce the impact of such an event as providing colleagues with fulfilling career opportunities.
The if it were to happen, we have developed recovery plans and Group continually engages with colleagues across the business invested in the creation of a remote IT disaster recovery site.
to ensure that we keep strengthening our team at every level.
The current challenging economic environment increases the risk that one of our key suppliers is adversely impacted by the recession and is unable to supply our stores.
We mitigate the potential impact of this on our business by seeking several sources of supply for products wherever possible.
Property The business is growing the size of its retail space through acq uisition and by modernising and extending existing stores and facilities.
In this context there is a possibility that the business fails to deliver an acceptable return on this investment or that there is damage to the business reputation if this is not done in a safe and timely manner.
The business mitigates against these risks through: a property strategy that develops stores to a well proven format: the application of a formal capital approval process: and long-standing relationships and agreements with contractors with a track record of achieving the required quality, safety and cost standards.
Systems and infrastructure The Board has identified that many of the Groups existing s ystems are approaching the end of their useful lives and that a comprehensive programme of replacement is required.
The Board is aware of the risks faced by any organisation seeking to successfully implement new systems, and has established a programme and assurance structure to manage these.
Our business, like other similar businesses, has a capacity
