Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Risk management The Company has in place a comprehensive risk management programme which is designed to ensure that signi cant and emerging risks are identi ed, assessed and managed effectively.
During the year, the risk management programme was strengthened with the introduction of a protocol which ensured more consistent categorisation and assessment of risks.
This allows for better appraisal of risks both from the perspective of the operating company and the Group, and for more accurate reporting and review of those risks.
The new programme also requires a more rigorous plan for management of any signi cant risks that have been identi ed, with operating companies assuming greater accountability.
Risk Mitigation The Groups businesses review all available indicators of Market conditions activity such as market statistics, economic forecasts, The Groups results depend on the levels of activity in the surveys and competitor announcements to assist in new construction and property repair and remodelling making decisions.
These in turn can uctuate rapidly, and depend on All the Groups businesses have active programmes, such factors as: monitored from the centre, to reduce their cost base in 3 the general rate of GDP growth line with expected levels of sales, to identify and exploit counter-cyclical opportunities, such as projects funded by 3 consumer con dence the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, and to 3 the availability of credit to finance customer investment diversify into the sectors, particularly commercial and industrial, that have proved more robust.
3 mortgage and other interest rates Programmes remain well managed to improve cash ow 3 the level of government initiatives to stimulate and reduce debt.
economic activity 3 in ation 3 unemployment 3 demographic trends and others.
These factors are out of the Groups control and have been dif cult to forecast.
Levels of activity have decreased markedly over the last two years, and there is a risk that they may decrease further or that improvement may be slow.
A continuing downturn or lack of improvement in any of the Groups markets could have a material adverse effect on the Groups results or financial condition.
All decisions about closing or divesting businesses or Restructuring actions exiting market sectors are made on the basis of cost-bene t In response to the recent deterioration of its markets, the analyses.
Group management only approves those Group has undertaken a restructuring programme to reduce which are consistent with our overall view on the direction costs and preserve cash.
This has involved divesting certain of our markets and the longer term strategic direction businesses and other assets, closing branches, reducing of the Group.
headcount and curtailing capital expenditure.
Each business reports monthly on the costs incurred and The Groups assessment of the level of restructuring the bene ts realised to date and forecast to be realised in required, and its expectations for the financial bene ts it will the current and subsequent financial year and these reports derive, are based on assumptions about future economic are reviewed and challenged by central management.
conditions that are inherently highly uncertain.
There is a risk that the downturn may be more severe than the Group expects, so that it fails to reduce costs as much as it could do, and there is also a risk that the downturn is less severe and the recovery more rapid than the Group expects, so that it reduces its size excessively and is unable to bene t fully from the recovery.
Either of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Groups results or financial condition.
Wolseley plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Risk management continued Risk Mitigation The Group regularly updates its five-year strategic plan Financial exibility to re ect changing market conditions and prepares Wolseleys current bank facilities include a covenant that medium-term financial forecasts and shorter-term its net debt should not exceed 3.5 times its annualised budgets on the basis of this plan.
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and These allow the Group to monitor its capital structure amortisation EBITDA.
A breach of this covenant could and assess whether the overall balance of debt and result in a signi cant proportion of the Groups borrowings equity remains appropriate, and also to monitor its future becoming payable immediately.
In order to remain in compliance with this covenant, and If these forecasts indicate periods of limited headroom, depending on the future performance of its business, there the Group can take whatever action is needed to restore is a risk that the Group might have to take actions to reduce a comfortable margin of compliance.
costs or preserve cash that it would not otherwise have chosen to do, or that it might not have the resources to The Group also regularly reviews financial performance, exploit opportunities it would otherwise have pursued.
cash ow forecasts and its exposure to uctuations in Either of these outcomes could have a material adverse currency exchange rates.
effect on the Groups results or financial condition.
The successful share placing and rights issue, and the signing of a two-year forward start debt facility effective in 2011, has signi cantly improved the Groups financial exibility.
Wolseley competes through the service, expertise and Competitive pressures the product breadth it offers as well as on price.
Wolseley competes with numerous local and regional Local businesses respond to the dynamics of their local distributors, as well as product manufacturers, in serving the markets and serve customers appropriately.
Whatever existing customer base and responding to trends in its changes those businesses require for example, shifting markets.
the product mix towards higher margin own-brand ranges, The Groups numerous markets have different or developing services to reduce their customers overall characteristics.
Trends affecting certain of them include: procurement costs are supported by the investment in people, technology and logistics that is enabled by 3 customer or supplier consolidation the Groups international scale.
3 manufacturers shipping directly to customers Central management conducts a regular review 3 commoditisation of products of operational performance, including the monitoring of nonfinancial KPIs.
3 increasing demand for e-commerce 3 changes in technology to improve fuel ef ciency or reduce environmental cost.
The Groups competitive position in any one market can depend on such factors as: 3 product availability 3 supply chain ef ciency 3 pricing 3 branch location 3 the product knowledge and customer service levels of its staff 3 availability of credit 3 ability to support speci c customer requirements eg central billing.
There is a risk that competition in some or all of the Groups markets could reduce sales prices or margins, which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups results or financial condition.
30 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Risk Mitigation Wolseley is committed to investing to ensure the Systems and infrastructure capabilities appropriate infrastructure is in place to sustain its current The Group can only carry on business as long as business and support growth.
A governance structure has transactions are supported by its information technology been established, cascading from the Board to operating systems.
There is a wide variety of systems across the divisions, to ensure that the planned revenue and capital Group, some of which have been operating for many years, costs remain appropriate, that bene ts will be delivered which makes it dif cult to capture or to aggregate certain and the risks of disruption to the business are controlled kinds of information which would assist management in and monitored and to make the detailed decisions about responding to market changes or to competitor activity.
allocating resources between competing projects.
The Group is running a large-scale programme of business improvement the Business Change Programme, which will implement shared and upgraded systems across the Group over a number of years.
This programme has recently been in competition with other projects for the limited funding available, which has delayed the planned deployment, but the Group still expects that bene ts over the lifetime of the systems will signi cantly exceed development costs.
There are risks that the anticipated bene ts may not be realised or that they may be delayed, that development and implementation of new systems and extending the life of legacy systems may cost more than currently budgeted, and that the deployment may result in greater business disruption or diversion of management attention than currently foreseen.
Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Groups results or financial condition.
During the course of the year, strong and effective Liquidity risk management of this risk has ensured that no major debt While the Groups current bank facilities provide adequate facility should need to be negotiated until 2013. borrowing capacity for the next four years, these facilities The Groups strategic plan provides the basis for assessing are only available as long as the Group continues to comply the level of facilities required throughout its planning horizon with its covenants.
The Group will seek to re finance these and also allows an estimate of relevant credit metrics.
facilities well before they expire, and may identify investment opportunities in the medium term that require access to The Group intends to obtain a credit rating during the additional financial resources.
There is a risk that the Group financial year 2009 10 and is currently working towards may not be able to obtain new facilities or re finance existing this.
A credit rating will assist in the re nancing of existing facilities on satisfactory terms, which could have a material facilities as they mature and extend the nancing options adverse effect on the Groups results or financial condition.
The Group sources products from a wide variety of Product prices and availability manufacturers and suppliers with none of these accounting The market price and availability of products distributed by for more than 5 per cent of its total material and supply the Group, such as stainless steel, copper, plastic, timber purchases during the 2008 9 financial year.
The Group and other products or commodities used in such products, actively seeks diversity of suppliers for key product ranges can uctuate.
and increasingly works with suppliers to forecast demand and hence manage product availability better.
The cost of fuel, which is a signi cant proportion of the Groups distribution cost, can uctuate.
Generally, the Group is able to maintain margins by passing on price increases from its suppliers to its Product shortages may arise as a result of unexpected customers.
The Groups businesses also seek to minimise demand or production dif culties.
In addition, suppliers in the effects of changing prices through economies of certain territories rely on obtaining credit insurance on their purchasing and inventory management, resulting in cost receivables, and in recent market conditions have been reductions and productivity improvements.
nding it increasing dif cult to do so, which affects their willingness or ability to make product available on credit.
The Group has provided assistance to a number of its suppliers in covering their receivables, for example There is a risk that the Group may be unable to by making presentations directly to credit insurers or accommodate or respond to adverse price uctuations changing credit terms to mitigate their exposure.
and that the Group may lose sales due to lack of available products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups results or financial condition.
Wolseley plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Risk management continued Risk Mitigation Each of the businesses has established procedures to Credit and counterparty risk monitor and collect outstanding receivables.
Signi cant Wolseley provides sales on credit terms to many of its outstanding and overdue balances are reviewed regularly customers.
There is an associated risk that customers and prompt action is taken.
In many cases, protection is may not be able to pay outstanding balances.
provided through lien rights on projects or through credit insurance arrangements, and all of the major businesses The North American Loan Services business formerly part use professional, dedicated credit teams, in some cases of Stock Building Supply also provides loans to finance eld based.
Appropriate provisions are made promptly for the construction of properties.
There is an associated debts that may be impaired.
risk that customers may not be able to pay outstanding loan balances.
The construction loans provided by North America Loan Services are secured on the related properties and are Wolseley places funds on deposit with banks, and managed by a dedicated lending team within that business.
enters into interest rate swaps under which it is entitled to receive future cash ows from banks.
There is an Group Treasury maintains a list of approved counterparties associated risk that counterparties may not be able to and exposure limits, and monitors the credit ratings and meet their obligations.
credit default swap spreads of these counterparties monthly.
Wolseley believes that the bene ts of its geographical International operations spread outweigh the associated risks.
The portfolio effect of Wolseley operates in 27 countries, which can present owning businesses in a range of economies and currency logistical and management challenges owing to different regimes reduces the volatility of the Groups longer term business cultures, laws and languages.
The Group needs to performance.
The Group continues to realise ef ciencies in strike the right balance between centralising where there are sourcing and distribution, and has programmes in place to bene ts to be gained from the Groups size and expertise, share best practice.
while allowing businesses the right amount of autonomy The Group seeks to manage its foreign currency risk to respond to local conditions, and while recognising that and the steps it takes are described in the financial risk business models that have been successful in certain management section on pages 37 to 38 and 111 to 114. regions cannot necessarily be transferred to others.
The Group actively works with its taxation advisers to In addition, there are general risks arising from managing understand the implications of changes to tax legislation operations internationally: and to minimise its tax exposure and risk.
3 uctuations in currency exchange rates may affect Wolseleys reported operating results and its financial position: 3 changes in tax regulation and international tax treaties could affect the financial performance of Wolseleys foreign operations: and 3 changes in other regulations or treaties may also affect the ability of the Group to repatriate pro ts from its foreign operations.
One of Wolseleys key competitive advantages is the People quality and experience of its people.
Local companies Wolseleys ability to provide leadership and products and have allocated speci c responsibilities for reviewing the services to customers depends on retaining suf ciently performance of senior managers and employees with high quali ed, experienced and motivated personnel.
Development and succession planning for these individuals is planned and strong performance is rewarded.
In order to increase productivity, and be able to take growth opportunities when markets improve, Wolseley The Group continues to invest signi cant time and money in must maintain the skills and experience of its existing senior management, manager development and graduate management and continue to develop the managers development programmes.
The Group reviews its compensation, incentivisation and The current dif cult conditions experienced in certain rewards policies to ensure that it is able to recruit and retain markets, and the Groups response to them, have increased high quality employees.
staff turnover and may demotivate remaining staff.
32 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Risk Mitigation The Group monitors regulations across its markets to Governmental regulations ensure that the effects of changes are minimised.
The Groups operations are affected by various statutes, Certain changes in regulations may also provide regulations and laws in the countries and markets in which opportunities, by increasing demand for a broader or it operates.
While the Group is not engaged in a highly higher margin product range.
For instance, changes to regulated industry, it is subject to the laws governing the standard of heat insulation in new buildings required businesses generally, including laws affecting competition, by building regulations in the UK have increased demand land usage, zoning, the environment, health and safety, for specialist products provided by Wolseley UK.
transportation, labour and employment practices including pensions, data protection, and other matters.
In addition, building codes or particular tax treatments may affect the products Wolseleys customers are allowed to use and, consequently, changes in these may affect the saleability of some Wolseley products.
Wolseley has a culture which is designed to resolve disputes Litigation directly with the party in question in a spirit of openness and The international nature of Wolseleys operations exposes co-operation.
Litigation is generally regarded as a last resort.
it to the potential for litigation from third parties.
In the US, In the case of asbestos litigation, Wolseley employs the risk of litigation is generally higher than that in Europe in independent professional advisers to actuarially determine such areas as workers compensation, general employer the potential gross liability, on the basis of assumptions liability and environmental and asbestos litigation.
about how claims will develop and the cost of settling such There is a risk that, due to the increasing sourcing of claims over the remaining lifetime of the potential litigants, products from lower cost countries, recourse to the which is about 50 years.
Actual experience may be manufacturer may be more dif cult were a product to expected to differ from the assumptions made, and these fail for a customer.
assumptions are reviewed each year and the liability adjusted in the financial statements.
Wolseley has insurance which signi cantly exceeds the current estimated liability relating to asbestos claims.
Based on current estimates, no material pro t or cash ow impact is expected to arise in the foreseeable future.
Wolseley has recognised a discounted liability of 42 million in respect of asbestos litigation with an equivalent insurance receivable shown in other receivables re ecting the discounted sum recoverable from insurers in respect of this liability.
Further information of financial and related risks can be found on pages 37 to 38 under Other financial matters.
Wolseley plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
