Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews 37 Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties In order to achieve our business objectives parts of our business.
This risk is Recruitment and retention of the Group must respond effectively to the managed by working in a diverse sufficient high-calibre staff associated risks.
The Group has established portfolio of sectors and markets, and the The Groups staff are its key resource risk management procedures, involving redeployment of staff from those parts and the recruitment and retention of top the identification and monitoring of of the business where the workload is quality people are crucial to our future strategic and operational risks at various reducing to other parts of the business success.
Failure to do so would constrain levels of management.
The Board regularly where the workload is strong.
The risk can the growth of the business and prevent reviews material risks identified and risk also be managed by selective restructuring the Group from achieving its potential.
management is embedded in our annual and downsizing.
Whilst the current recession has reduced budgeting and strategic planning the recruitment pressure in some areas, processes.
It is, however, not possible Project management failure to retain key staff is still a risk.
Also, to fully mitigate all risks that the Group Managing clients and our own projects the skills needed in some parts of our encounters.
In addition to market risk, is core to our business.
Inadequate project business are still in short supply and the credit risk and liquidity risk, which are management skills could lead to financial Group has to compete with a large covered under Treasury policies and loss and reputational damage.
The Group number of other organisations to secure objectives above, the principal key risks for mitigates these risks by encouraging the best staff.
The Group expends a the Group have been assessed as follows: adherence to internal processes great deal of management effort and augmented by ongoing training and resource in this area, a summary of the Economic environment selective recruitment.
approach being shown in the Human A decrease in GDP as a result of a world Resources Review.
economic slowdown could have an Changes to the contracting adverse impact on workload for both environment resulting from market Health, safety and environment private and public sector clients.
The developments The Groups business is concerned with Group mitigates this risk by monitoring the built environment and this entails The ways in which business is conducted economic indicators and sentiment in the significant health, safety and environmental inevitably change over time.
The nature of markets in which we operate, as well as risks.
Should the Groups policy or practice the contracting environment is especially by maintaining a strong balance sheet, important for companies like Atkins.
The in this area prove inadequate, there is working in a diverse portfolio of sectors trend remains one where clients increasingly a consequent risk to employees, clients, and markets and by building flexibility seek to transfer risk to consultants: contractors and third parties.
The Group into future plans.
takes health, safety and environment contractors will also seek to share risks.
issues seriously and ensures that all staff There is a possibility that, in securing new Competition work, the Group accepts risks that are are appropriately trained and that In common with all companies, the Group insufficiently understood or evaluated, procedures are continuously reviewed and faces competition from others in all of our with ensuing financial loss.
We look to take a leadership markets.
Some of the markets in which role on health and safety matters in our mitigate this risk via a range of internal the Group works serve limited clients sector and we have representation on review procedures that enable contract and barriers to entry are high.
In other terms to be subject to appropriate scrutiny a number of committees.
Many of our markets, such as architectural design and manageable risks to be reduced.
clients insist on the Group attaining and environment, there are numerous appropriate standards in health and competitors and barriers to entry are safety and environment.
We are regularly Pandemic influenza lower.
To ensure that the Group continues independently audited by external An influenza pandemic could affect a to win work, we work hard to develop significant number of our staff who consultants against these industry standards.
long-term relationships with our clients at maybe unable to report for work either multiple levels.
A measure of this success because they are personally unwell or Reputation risk is our work in hand, which measures our Our reputation for delivering complex because they need to care for secured workload over the next year.
Our projects relies on the perception of our dependents.
The risk is heightened this overall work in hand is 54%, representing year due to the current swine flu clients and how this is portrayed in the over six months of 2009 10 revenue that pandemic.
This risk is closely monitored public arena.
There is a risk that a major is already contractually committed.
and advice is taken from the governments failure from poor design, poor project management or delivery could impact our and medical authorities in the countries in Matching staffing levels to workload ability to win future work.
We mitigate which we operate as well as from our The Group balances resources staffing own private medical and travel advisors.
this risk by ensuring we have robust cost to workload to control the level of Contingency plans are in place to limit the and project management systems linked non-productive time.
There is a risk, in an spread of infection within our offices and to our internal quality processes.
These are economic downturn, that there is insufficient regularly independently audited by external to enable continuity of work commitments work to match current resources in some consultants against industry standards.
through home and remote working.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
