Babcock International Group PLC 26 Annual report and accounts 2009 Principal risks Risk In the course of our day-to-day operations we face a number of risks and uncertainties.
The Board considers the matters Health, safety and environmental issues described in this section to be those that could adversely affect the business, results of operations, revenue, profit, cash ow, The working environments in which the Group operates are assets and the delivery of our growth strategy.
Given the size, complex and, in some instances, can be inherently dangerous.
complexity and spread of our businesses and the continually Some of our activities, if not appropriately managed, could have changing environment in which the Group operates, this an adverse effect on the environment which could reasonably cannot be an exhaustive list of such risks.
Systems and procedures are in place across the Group to Our commitment to our employees and the nature of our identify, assess and mitigate major business risks.
The business and our customers mean that our ability to manage management of risk is an integral part of our operational these issues is a key element of our business reputation review process and is supplemented at Group level by and success.
independent challenge and review by the Group Risk Manager Impact and the Audit and Risk Committee.
Further details on our Damage to our reputation would affect our ability to win and internal control processes are set out on pages 44 and 45. retain contracts and attract and retain our staff and therefore adversely affect the financial performance of the Group.
Action The Executive Committee and the Board review health, safety and environmental performance regularly and satisfactory performance on these matters is one of the performance criteria included in executive bonus schemes.
A Safety Leadership Team comprising the Executive Directors and all divisional Managing Directors meets regularly to set policy and procedures and to monitor performance and agree corrective actions where necessary.
For further details of our approach to Health, Safety and Environment see pages 22 and 23 and page 25.
Risk The Group is dependent on a number of key people The Group operates in highly technical and complex businesses and is dependent on recruiting, retaining and developing highly skilled, qualied and experienced engineers and project management staff.
The marketplace for such staff remains highly competitive.
Impact The Groups operations could be constrained by a lack of suitably qualied and experienced employees in key areas.
Action We seek to make our businesses attractive places to work by offering competitive remuneration packages aimed at long-term employee retention as well as appropriate training and development opportunities.
In the past few years we have extended both our graduate and apprentice recruitment and development programmes and we continue to improve our management development programmes.
Business review 01 33 Babcock International Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2009 27 Risk Risk The Groups ethical reputation The Group is reliant on large could be damaged contracts from a limited number of major customers We pride ourselves on our trusted to deliver reputation.
This is a key factor in our ability to win, complete and retain A significant proportion of the Groups revenue comes from contracts and is an important element in our ability to build large contracts placed by a limited number of major customers and maintain long-term relationships with our customers.
such as the Ministry of Defence, Network Rail, and National Impact Grid.
These customers are affected by budgetary, regulatory or political constraints which could have a significant impact on Any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect the size, scope, timing and duration of contracts and orders on the Groups future results and financial position.
In addition, because of their size, these customers Action have considerable bargaining power and the ability to cancel We insist on the highest standards of honesty, integrity contracts at short notice.
and performance in all aspects of business.
We have an ethical Impact policy in place that defines the level of behaviour we expect.
The loss, expiration, delay, suspension, cancellation or The policy is formally re-emphasised to senior management termination of a number of these large contracts, or any every year and they formally confirm compliance.
We have damage to the relationship with any of our major customers, established a whistle blower hot line so all employees can could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future anonymously express any concerns they have about the way results and financial position.
the business is being operated.
We maintain regular dialogue with customers and carry out customer surveys to ensure we Action identify any potential threats to our customer relationships and We make it a priority to have a close understanding of our act on them.
customers and their needs and objectives.
Our aim is to develop and maintain long-term co-operative working Risk relationships with them, and to ensure the financial success or failure of contracts is fairly shared.
We aim to position our Information technology businesses in markets where the risk of adverse changes to the size, scope, timing and duration of contracts is low.
The Group relies on the use of complex software for the management of engineering, commercial and financial data.
Management regularly reviews contract performance and The Group and its customers are dependent on the resilience Executive Committee members are closely involved in ensuring of the applications software, the data processing facilities and the strength of customer relationships.
the network infrastructure linking the sites where we operate.
Impact Risk A serious failure in any of these areas would have a significant Maintaining growth through adverse effect on our businesses.
continuing bid success Action The Groups businesses have detailed disaster recovery plans in Our ability to achieve growth and deliver value for our place.
We have also established a Group data centre which has shareholders relies on our ability to win new contracts and in-built high resilience levels with a physically separate disaster retain existing contracts on expiry.
Our ability to manage the bid recovery facility.
This will increasingly form the hub of all shared process successfully is vital.
Bid processes can be long and are IT services.
often subject to delays, changes or abandonment by the customer, all of which are outside our control.
The significant financial and manpower costs of these bids are generally not recoverable if bids are unsuccessful or the tenders are withdrawn or aborted by the customer.
Impact Failure to win significant new contracts will materially affect the Groups future results and its ability to achieve its strategic growth objectives.
Action All bids are subject to continuous monitoring and review by senior Group and divisional executives to ensure resources are appropriately focused so the chances of success and the financial returns are acceptable.
The final submission of any significant bid or re-bid requires formal approval from one or more Executive Directors.
Babcock International Group PLC 28 Annual report and accounts 2009 Principal risks continued Risk Risk Poor contract performance The Group has experienced growth through acquisitions, the financial and The continuing financial success of the Group depends strategic benets of these acquisitions on our ability to meet or exceed the contractual requirements of our customers.
On many contracts we employ sub-contractors may not be realised or work with other commercial partners and so are reliant Since 2001 the Group has grown through a series of on their performance as well as that of our own employees acquisitions.
This is expected to continue as the Group seeks to meet the key performance indicators and financial to meet its strategic objectives.
The integration of operations standards expected.
and employees is a complex process and post-acquisition Impact performance may not be at the levels anticipated.
The Group Failure to meet contractual performance criteria either directly may not be able to integrate the operations of acquired or through sub-contractors and the resultant damage to our businesses with existing operations as rapidly as expected reputation could have an adverse effect on the Groups future or without encountering other difficulties.
Impact Action The diversion of management attention to integration issues Each division has procedures in place to monitor the ongoing and other difficulties encountered could adversely affect the performance of each contract and these are discussed Groups business.
Post-acquisition performance may not meet at operational reviews with Group Executive management.
the financial performance expected and could therefore not The financial performance of all contracts is reviewed quarterly justify the price paid and could adversely affect the Groups by Group Finance.
future results and financial position.
Action Risk We seek to carry out appropriate due diligence as far The Group derives a large proportion as we are able and carry out a detailed valuation process based on information available and our knowledge of the marketplace.
of its revenues from national and local All acquisition processes are overseen by the Board and no government activities acquisition may be completed without the formal approval of the Board.
Our largest customer is the Ministry of Defence.
We also have significant contracts with private sector companies who are strongly inuenced by political and regulatory considerations.
As such our businesses are susceptible to changes in government policy, budget allocations and the political environment.
Impact The termination or significant amendment of any of our large contracts arising from changes in the factors noted could have an adverse effect on the Groups future results and financial position.
Action We seek to maintain a regular dialogue with our customers and others within government departments to ensure we fully understand at both Group and divisional levels the considerations that are affecting budgetary and policy decisions and the changing political environment.
Business review 01 33 Babcock International Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2009 29 Risk Risk The Group operates large dened Default of a significant debtor benefit pension schemes or counterparty Impact The Groups dened benefit pension schemes are currently in overall surplus.
However this could be adversely affected The failure of a significant debtor or counterparty could by a number of factors including lower than assumed adversely effect the cash ow of the Group.
investment returns, changes in mortality or other valuation Action assumptions and the funds could go into deficit.
All significant credit risks are reviewed by Group Finance Impact and an Executive Director and, where appropriate and available, A pension scheme deficit could require the Group to make risk limitation actions are taken.
greater cash contributions to the schemes and reduce the cash available to meet the Groups other obligations Risk or business needs.
Liquidity risk Action We seek to maintain constructive and open relationships The Group relies on the ongoing provision of lines of credit with the scheme trustees and to encourage them to follow from its relationship banks.
Banking lines of credit could be appropriate investment policies for the prole of their members withdrawn if legally binding covenants are not met.
as well as seek other means of eliminating or mitigating risk.
Impact For an example of how we are addressing this see the financial The Groups ability to fund current and future obligations review page 32, where we discuss proposed longevity swaps.
and future expansion could be adversely affected.
We also maintain a suitable ongoing funding rate.
We have Action a Group Pensions Manager reporting to the Group Finance Director whose task is to keep such strategic matters under The Group has committed lines of credit of 600 million close review.
He regularly reports to the Board.
Borrowing ratios are comfortably within the review of the pension schemes is also conducted by the Board banking covenants set out in nancing agreements and are and the schemes form part of Board discussions at other times monitored on a regular basis.
The conversion of profit to cash of the year.
Further details of the Groups pension schemes are is a key performance indicator.
detailed in note 28 to the Group financial statements.
Risk Risk Interest and foreign exchange risk The material misstatement Historically the Group has nanced its operations through of financial results equity and bank debt.
Some of the Groups debt is denominated in foreign currency.
The interest rate charged The Group could materially misstate financial results on bank debt could increase signicantly or foreign currency through fraud or error if financial and operational controls exchange rates could move materially against Sterling, are inadequate.
Impact Impact Misstatement of financial results could adversely damage the Groups reputation, affect its ability to operate and its future Adverse movements in interest and foreign exchange rates results and financial position.
could impact Group profit and net assets causing a reduction in returns to shareholders.
Action Action The Group has robust structures to mitigate or manage these risks, including a comprehensive financial policy and Interest rate risk is managed by the use of interest rate collars accounting standards manual with authority and approval and swaps to ensure an appropriate mix of xed and oating mandates.
All material commercial and contractual activities rate debt is maintained.
Foreign exchange translation exposure are overseen by Group executives and governed by the Group is managed by restricting foreign borrowing to the value Policy and Procedures manual which sets out the Groups of assets denominated in the same currency or in the case approach to doing business.
These policies and procedures of transactions in foreign currency, by the mandatory use are backed up by a system of regular contract reviews of foreign currency contracts.
conducted by Group Finance and a regime of internal audit, conducted by Ernst and Young which reports to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Further detail of internal controls is given on pages 44-45.
