qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:33 Page 36 | 36 STRATEGY: BUSINESS REVIEW Principal risks and uncertainties Our approach to risk management is value-driven.
A structured and comprehensive risk management system has been implemented across our businesses.
Risk is an intrinsic aspect of business and is inseparable from opportunity.
Key points The objective of our risk management system is to ensure an environment where we can condently grow shareholder value and pursue business opportunities while developing and protecting our people, our assets, Performance our environment and our reputation.
Our approach to risk has the stated objective Xstrata has a value-driven approach to risk management and a structured of ensuring an environment where we can and comprehensive risk management system has been implemented condently grow shareholder value through across the Group.
Our risk management policy requires each commodity developing and protecting our people, our business and corporate function to undertake a comprehensive annual risk review as part of their ongoing process for identifying, evaluating assets, our environment and our reputation and managing significant risks.
The conclusions of this review are fully We maintain a diversied portfolio of assets integrated into the annual business plans presented for Board approval and progress against plans, significant changes in the business risk prole across several different geographies and operating and actions taken to address controls and mitigate risks are reported currencies, reducing the impact of movement in quarterly to both the business and Group Audit Committees as well any one commodity price or currency exchange as to the Executive Committee and the Board.
rate and diversifying political risk The risks detailed below represent the principal risks and uncertainties Health, safety, environmental and social issues, which may impact our ability to execute Xstratas strategy at a Group level.
These risks have been assessed according to materiality, likelihood including climate change and energy-related risks, and residual risk after controls.
Further information about Xstratas risk are given high priority by management management processes and controls is provided in the corporate Our sustainable development framework governance report on pages 108 to 115 of this report.
regularly audits our projects and operations against specic performance standards to ensure social, environmental and ethical risks are properly identied and managed Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p36-41 AW.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:33 Page 37 37 Commodity price volatility Risk Impact portfolio of commodities and typically do not Xstratas revenue and earnings are dependent The impact on our operating profit of implement large-scale strategic hedging or price on prevailing commodity prices which are movements in the price of each of Xstratas management initiatives.
We aim to reduce costs determined by the supply of, and demand for, commodities is set out on page 45 of the on a continuous basis and maintain low-cost, raw materials and are closely linked to global Financial Review.
Commodity price trends and efficient operations, optimising our portfolio and economic growth.
Commodity prices for all commentary on the outlook for each of Xstratas returns throughout the commodity price cycle.
products, and particularly for exchange-traded commodity markets is provided in the operating We maintain an investment grade credit rating commodities, may uctuate widely and may review sections of this report.
and our Group Treasury policy is actively have a material impact on financial results.
monitored and reported on each month to Mitigation the Executive Committee.
We manage the risk of commodity price uctuations through maintaining a diversied Fluctuations in currency exchange rates Risk The impacts of currency exchange rate uctuations in the US dollar against local currencies.
Foreign currency hedging information is provided in the Xstratas products are generally sold in US on our operating profit, together with average financial review.
Xstratas financial structure, dollars, while our operations and operating exchange rates in 2009 compared to 2008, are set including exposure to interest payments, out on page 47 of the financial review.
costs are spread across several different interest rate changes and amendments to countries and currencies.
Mitigation taxation regulations, is regularly reviewed to Impact We maintain a diversied portfolio of assets ensure compliance with relevant regulations Fluctuations in exchange rates, in particular across several different geographies and and to maximise financial efficiency.
Xstrata movements in the Australian dollar, Canadian operating currencies, reducing the impact maintains a robust investment grade credit dollar and South African rand against the US of movement in any one commodity price.
rating and our Group Treasury policy is actively dollar, may have a material impact on Xstratas Currency cash ow hedging may be used to monitored and reported on each month to the financial results or affect our investment rating.
reduce our short-term exposure to uctuations Executive Committee.
Security of energy supplies Risk Impact projects and regularly revisiting and revising assumptions.
Where necessary, we develop Increasing global demand for energy and the A number of Xstratas operations and facilities limited growth of new supply is impacting the proprietary energy generation facilities, are intensive users of natural gas, electricity, oil price and availability of energy.
Factors beyond e. g. a gas-red power plant at Mount Isa and other fuels and the price of energy heavily the control of Xstrata, such as strong demand and feasibility studies are also being conducted impacts operating costs.
Lack of supply of energy from the Asia-Pacic region, political, regulatory into a hydro-electric power plant in southern may impact our ability to operate or threaten Chile.
Our businesses investigate and develop and economic uncertainties and the costs planned future expansions of operations or associated with emissions from fossil fuels, as energy-efficient technologies, for example, the development of new mines.
Energy costs well as problems related to local generation and Xstrata Alloys proprietary Premus technology typically comprise approximately 10% of total which reduces the energy consumption of transmission of power, for example, electricity operating costs.
constraints in South Africa and natural gas ferrochrome smelting by over 20% compared Mitigation shortages in Chile, can reduce the reliability to conventional processes.
Long-term energy We have an ongoing programme to assess and of energy supply and increase energy prices.
contracts are negotiated to reduce dependence monitor energy-related risks, including scenario In some regions, Xstratas energy supply is on spot markets and we seek to diversify power analyses.
We manage this risk through dependent on one major or national power sources and identify alternatives.
We are generation company, for example, Eskom in implementing energy efficiency plans across pursuing the more complete recovery of existing South Africa.
our operations, assessing the risks associated resources, such as the capture of coal methane with energy supply at the design phase of our for electricity generation.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 23:47 Page 38 | 38 STRATEGY: BUSINESS REVIEW Principal risks and uncertainties continued Emissions and climate change regulation producer of export thermal coal.
Any material investing in and advocating government Risk Xstrata operates in a number of jurisdictions decline in the use of coal as a power source as support for research and development projects in which regulations or laws have been a result of carbon taxes, emissions trading or to reduce GHG from the use of coal in power similar legislation may have a material adverse introduced or are being considered to limit generation, together with other coal producers, or reduce emissions.
The likely effect of impact on Xstratas financial position.
Climate governments, scientific and academic change may also result in weather-related events climate change-related regulation will be to organisations.
Demand for coal is expected increase costs for fossil fuels, electricity and or other physical threats that may hamper to be supported by forecast significant increases transportation, restrict industrial emissions, production or damage assets.
in global demand for energy, particularly in impose added costs for emissions in excess developing countries, and by coals relative cost Mitigation of permitted levels and increase costs for position, availability and security of supply.
Climate change issues are given a high priority monitoring, reporting and accounting.
by management and initiatives are undertaken We are committed to measuring, controlling Our customers and suppliers are becoming to continually improve understanding of the and reducing harmful emissions to air, water increasingly aware of their own carbon and Groups carbon footprint and to reduce the and land.
We monitor all emissions including water footprints and are selecting business carbon intensity of operations and activities.
dust, heavy metals, CFCs, VOCs and others.
partners who actively reduce their impact on We undertake studies to better understand the Xstratas most significant air emission is sulphur climate change through changes to operational potential physical and weather-related risks of dioxide SO.
Operations that emit SO set 2 2 processes and transportation infrastructures.
climate change on our operations and logistics annual targets to reduce their emissions and networks and incorporate the results into our Impact increase the proportion of emitted gas that they Climate change legislation in the countries in longer-term planning.
We are improving the capture and we publicly report progress against which Xstrata operates, such as the Carbon accuracy of our greenhouse gas emissions these targets in Sustainability Reports.
Pollution Reduction Scheme in Australia and GHG reporting year-on-year and use the latest We actively engage with governments through similar initiatives in Canada and Chile, may lead research to inform our methods.
Our commodity industry associations and on our own behalf to to higher energy costs or restricted energy businesses actively develop and implement discuss the potential implications of proposed supply, which may have a material adverse climate change strategies which are pertinent legislation and to understand and manage the to their business and commodities.
Every plan impact on our ability to maintain production potential impacts on our business.
and or contain operating costs.
Failing to meet includes clear performance targets and a and exceed best practice for monitoring and timeframe in which they should be achieved.
reporting emissions to land and air will have We participate in industry and regulatory a reputational impact on Xstratas operating initiatives to address climate change and capabilities.
Xstrata is the worlds largest associated issues.
Xstrata Coal is actively Project development and replace older operations with new, lowerand, where possible mitigated, before the project Risk cost supply will impact future revenues, costs can proceed to the next phase.
Under Xstratas Xstrata benets from a significant pipeline and managements reputation for successful SD framework, projects are regularly audited of organic growth projects in a number of against the specic performance standards set project development.
The development of our projects can out for each stage of a projects development be affected by a number of factors, some of Mitigation to ensure social, environmental and ethical risks which are outside of our control.
These include Cost control remains a key consideration of any are properly identied and managed.
Detailed technical uncertainties, availability of suitable project development and Xstratas commodity progress reports are provided on a regular basis nancing, infrastructure constraints, cost businesses have an excellent track record of for all major projects to the Group Executive overruns, overstretched management and delivering major capital growth projects on Committee and early warning systems are in insufficient skills or resources.
External time and on budget, with $9 billion of projects place to keep projects on track.
Xstrata regularly organisations can cause unexpected delays due successfully delivered since 2004.
Xstrata communicates with and works in partnership to problems obtaining, renewing or extending also benets from a broad range of project with government bodies, communities and relevant operating, social or environmental development experience within its commodity other stakeholders during the development of its permits or other legislative requirements.
Each of Xstratas growth projects.
The project pipeline is rigorously mining sentiment by local communities and or businesses has a comprehensive project approval evaluated and, if appropriate, projects are NGOs can slow or halt project development process which governs project management earmarked for disposal, partner introduction and unduly inuence government processes.
at each stage of a projects development to or postponement, depending on risk prole Impact commissioning.
Stage gate and other approval and an assessment of potential value.
See also The Groups ability to develop its project pipeline processes ensure that all risks are fully assessed social and community risk below.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p36-41 AW.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 23:48 Page 39 39 Social and community Risk delays in development, impacting future and human rights baseline studies and risk operating profit, development costs and our assessments, and engage with all communities Xstratas operations and the development in a transparent, culturally appropriate manner of its project pipeline can have an impact on corporate reputation.
Lack of support for our within an operations sphere of inuence.
communities local to its sites.
In some instances, operations can impact production and affect We recognise community members rights and our developments may involve the resettlement our profitability and or reputation.
respect local laws, customs and cultural heritage.
of communities and relocation of infrastructure.
Mitigation Decisions made during earlier phases of a projects In some regions, communities may oppose We work with the communities affected by our life cycle are reviewed during each later phase.
mining activities for various reasons.
operations to identify and evaluate their needs We aim to avoid the need to resettle communities, Impact and concerns at every stage of a projects life but where necessary we adhere to the World Without gaining broad support for our activities cycle, as well as the actual and potential impacts Bank International Finance Corporation standards from local communities our projects could face our operations have on them.
We carry out social on Involuntary Resettlement.
Health, safety and environment Risk performance and community relations may Our commitment to the principles of sustainable damage our reputation and, as a result, our Xstratas operations are subject to extensive development, which incorporates environmental, health, safety and environmental HSE regulations licence to operate.
Increasing and competing economic and social performance, is an integral demands for water in water-scarce regions and legislation and community expectations.
part of our operating philosophy.
Every managed presents a growing risk for some of Xstratas operation is independently audited through Impact operations.
Performance standards at acquired Xstratas Sustainable Development Assurance New or amended environmental, health and operations may not meet Xstratas expected Programme on a regular basis, and health, safety legislation or regulations may result performance standards.
safety, environmental and social performance in increased operating costs or, in the event indicators are reported regularly to the Group of non-compliance, the possibility of fines, Mitigation Executive Committee and Board.
Operations penalties or other actions which may adversely We comply in full with the laws and regulations located in water-scarce areas are required to affect Xstratas financial position.
Rehabilitation in each country where we operate.
In addition, develop and implement water management costs, which are generally estimated and we operate in accordance with Xstratas strategies, engage with other concerned provided for over the life of operations and Sustainable Development Framework, aspiring stakeholders and set water intensity reduction based on the best information available, may to achieve the highest international standards targets.
Acquired operations are assessed for HSE subsequently increase, impacting on Group regardless of location and without exception.
risks and opportunities as part of the integration earnings.
Any breach of regulations or nonXstratas businesses monitor legislative compliance with Xstratas own best practice requirements and engage with government and process and action plans implemented to address standards in health, safety and environmental regulators regularly to ensure full compliance.
Political and scal intervention geographic region or at certain operations.
employees and local communities for mutual Risk In South Africa, these risks include the ability benets, earning and maintaining a social Xstratas operations and projects span 19 licence to operate.
Investment terms and joint to convert existing mining licences to new countries, some of which have more complex, venture or other partnership agreements are order mining rights under the Mineral and less stable political or social climates and reviewed to ensure fairness and reduce the Petroleum Resources Development Act consequently higher country risk.
Political risks risk of renegotiation.
Xstrata maintains an include changes in laws or regulations, taxes or and Empowerment Charter extensive, transparent and open relationship royalties, expropriation of assets, infrastructure Mitigation with regulators and local, regional and national issues, currency restrictions or renegotiation We manage a broad geographic spread of government bodies.
We follow and ensure any of, or changes to, mining leases and permits.
assets, diversifying political risk across a number changes to laws or regulations are addressed A change to the political, community or scal of territories.
We perform a thorough risk and closely monitor compliance with legislation structure of a country could render the region assessment on a country-by-country basis when and with the leading practice standards set unsuitable for efficient operation or result in considering activities and investments and out by the Groups Sustainable Development lower investor confidence.
regularly review political, regulatory and social Framework.
In South Africa, Xstrata is on track Impact risk to ensure that risks have been properly to achieve employment equity, procurement, Any of these factors could have an adverse identied and managed to within acceptable social development and other targets as set impact on Xstratas profitability in a certain levels.
We work in partnership with our out by the Mining Charter.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:33 Page 40 | 40 STRATEGY: BUSINESS REVIEW Principal risks and uncertainties continued Product stewardship Risk Impact compliance to regulations.
Xstrata engages with and lobbies political leaders and advisors through The European Unions REACH regulation Non-compliance with REACH or similar Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of legislation elsewhere would restrict available these organisations as well as independently.
markets for many of Xstratas commodities and Xstrata has developed a coordinated Group Chemicals is intended to place the burden of potentially reduce revenues.
Costs may increase approach to REACH legislation, resulting in ensuring the safety of chemical substances in the sharing of compliance information across arising from the need to adhere to different terms of both occupational and environmental business units and all our businesses fully compliance regimes in the various destinations exposures onto industry instead of authorities of Xstratas products.
Legislation that may be understand the REACH obligations and have and requires the producers of chemicals to enacted in other countries could affect the confirmed compliance.
In addition, we are identify, register and carry out toxicity testing.
Groups ability to procure consumables, due to closely monitoring and are involved with the Many of the commodities produced by Xstrata work of industry bodies, which are engaged in their removal from the market as well as Xstratas and the chemicals used during its production ability to export products and impact costs.
processes fall within the scope of REACH, failure to comply with REACH legislation will result in Mitigation these products being excluded from the EU.
We monitor proposed changes to existing Different countries and regions may introduce laws and the introduction of new laws in all varying compliance regulation and consumables jurisdictions.
Xstrata actively participates in a may be removed from the market as a result of number of industry organisations and product new legislation.
consortia to facilitate information-sharing on Group nancing Risk Mitigation presented on an approved unapproved basis to Xstratas existing debt levels combined with Xstrata is committed to maintaining an allow the monitoring of the impact on Xstratas a significant expansionary programme will credit rating and our ability to react to changes investment grade credit rating and takes a reduce Xstratas exibility to react to market in market circumstances.
Xstratas Treasury Policy considered approach to debt management.
In downturns and take advantage of opportunities.
and performance is actively monitored and the first quarter of the year, Xstrata completed reported each month to the Executive Committee.
a 2 for 1 rights issue, repaying a net $3.7 billion Impact of debt.
The Group benets from significant A restricted ability to renance and or assume headroom under existing debt facilities and additional debt will affect the Groups ability to has no material debt renancing requirements fund ongoing operations and growth and may place pressure on the Groups credit rating until 2011 and a good spread of maturities over and banking covenants.
Capital expenditure is Cost control Risk Impact efficiencies and operational management are incentivised to reduce the operating cost base As Xstrata is unable to directly set the prices While increases in these costs have moderated it receives for the commodities it produces, in recent months and in some cases have of each of our businesses every year.
its competitiveness and long-term profitability declined, further increases in input costs may In each of the last eight years, Xstrata has depend, to a significant degree, on its ability to negatively impact Xstratas earnings.
achieved real cost savings from its operational reduce costs and maintain low-cost, efficient cost base and in 2009, $501 million of real Mitigation operations.
Important cost inputs generally We recognise the importance of cost reduction cost savings were achieved.
Xstratas dedicated include extraction and processing costs of raw technology business, Xstrata Technology as a driver of value creation and as a measure of materials and consumables, such as reductants, the quality of our operational management and Services, is a world leader in the development reagents, power, fuels, labour, transport and of minerals processing and metals extraction our stewardship of the assets of our owners.
equipment, many of which are particularly Cost performance is regularly reported to the technologies to improve efficiency and reduce susceptible to inationary and supply and operating costs.
Xstratas commodity businesses Group Executive Committee and is an important demand pressures.
Regular also invest in the development of lower cost proprietary technologies.
internal audits at operations identify potential Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p36-41 AW.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:33 Page 41 41 Operational risks Risk at commodities transport terminals: industrial Mitigation Xstratas operations are affected by a number action or disputes: environmental hazards: and Our approach to operational risk is valueof factors which are, to a large extent, outside technical failures, res, explosions and other driven and has the stated objective of ensuring managements control, including the availability incidents at a mine, processing plant, cargo an environment where we can condently of raw materials, water and power.
In addition, terminal or related facilities.
grow shareholder value through developing Xstratas businesses are subject to numerous and protecting our people, our assets, our Impact other operating risks which include: unusual environment and our reputation.
We have in Impacts to our operating environments may or unexpected geological features, ground place a robust and comprehensive programme adversely affect operating performance, conditions or seismic activity: climatic conditions to identify, understand and manage the risks production levels, unit costs and operating profit.
including as a result of climate change such as that affect our businesses and operations.
Each ooding, drought or a reduction in permafrost: commodity business undertakes an annual risk interruptions to power supplies: congestion review and updates its risk register accordingly.
Labour and key employees Risk effect on the Group.
In addition, as Xstrata and non-discriminatory workplaces.
We believe The majority of Xstratas workforce is unionised.
develops and expands, we believe that our our devolved management structure and We believe that all of our operations have, in future success will depend on our ability to supportive environment for rational risk-taking general, good relations with employees and attract and retain highly skilled and qualied is an important retention measure, offering unions, but from time to time the Groups personnel, which is not guaranteed.
unparalleled opportunities for development operations have experienced limited work and entrepreneurial leadership, minimising Mitigation stoppages and other industrial action which bureaucracy and allowing every employee to We aim to attract and retain the best people interrupts production.
play an active part in our success.
Fast track at every level of our businesses and to provide and executive development programmes are in Impact them with the resources they require to achieve place across the Group and formal succession Xstratas lean management structure depends and maintain our operational excellence.
We planning is regularly reviewed.
on a relatively small number of key employees.
provide industry-leading career development The loss of certain key employees, particularly opportunities, well structured employment to competitors, could have a material adverse contracts, competitive remuneration and fair Reserves are necessary for Xstratas future success.
In estimates are published on the Group Risk Mine reserves decline as commodities are order to develop reserves, various governmental website.
We maintain a transparent and open permits must be obtained.
relationship with regulators and local, regional extracted and not all reserves may be mined as profitably as anticipated.
and national government bodies and closely Mitigation monitor compliance with legislation and with We annually update the quantity and quality Impact the leading practice standards set out by the Successful exploration and development of estimated proven and probable reserves to Groups Sustainable Development Framework.
reect the extraction of commodities, additional activities and access to new properties containing economically recoverable reserves drilling or other data.
qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:41 Page 42 | 42 PERFORMANCE Performance In this section 44 Financial review 52 Operating review 52 Xstrata Alloys 58 Xstrata Coal 66 Xstrata Copper 76 Xstrata Nickel 84 Xstrata Zinc 92 Xstrata Technology Services 93 Operations data Group Alloys Coal Xstrata achieved a robust financial and Ferrochrome capacity utilisation rose from Production improvements at a number of operating performance as a result of its 20% at the start of the year to end of 2009 at the Australian operations achieved real cost decisive response to the downturn, which 85%, production at energy-efficient furnaces savings of $107 million included restructuring businesses, curtailing was prioritised resulting in real cost savings capital expenditure and substantially reducing of $13 million operating costs Key points Key points Key points Cost cutting and operational restructuring Operating profit was impacted by lower Total thermal sales volumes increased by 9% generated real cost savings of $501 million ferrochrome, PGM and vanadium prices and due to the inclusion of Prodeco and higher Gearing reduced to 26% as a result of a stronger South African rand volumes from Australia robust cash ows and a 2 for 1 rights issue Cost savings and efficiency initiatives meant which repaid $3.7 billion of debt no permanent employees were retrenched, despite the reduced production capacity Group operating profit Alloys operating profit Coal operating profit $4,476m $ 23 m $2,145m 2008: $7,249m 2008: $1,007m 2008: $3,546m See page 44 for more information.
See page 52 for more information.
See page 58 for more information.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p42-51 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:41 Page 43 43 Copper Nickel Zinc Xstrata Coppers operating profit was Restructuring of its business has reduced Operational restructuring, productivity impacted by lower copper prices and reduced average operating costs for Xstrata Nickel to improvements and implementation of volumes of gold and other by-product sales the bottom half of the industry cost curve, sustainable cost savings positively impacted while retaining its growth potential Xstrata Zincs operating profit Key points Key points Key points An ongoing focus on productivity and Xstrata Nickels restructuring initiatives Real cost savings of $192 million operational improvements delivered achieved real cost savings of $134 million were achieved through production $55 million in real cost savings Consolidated cash costs fell by 33% to an and operational improvements Record production volumes were achieved average of $3.80 per pound and a run rate C1 cash costs were reduced by 25% by Xstrata Coppers Chilean operations and of below $3.00 per pound to 43.5 cents per pound Mount Isa mines in Australia Copper operating profit Nickel operating profit Zinc operating profit $2,126m $ 18 m $506m 2008: $2,297m 2008: $341m 2008: $104m See page 66 for more information.
See page 76 for more information.
See page 84 for more information.
