DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL RISKS DEFENCE SPENDING The Group is Description: The Groups core businesses are primarily potential implications for the sustainability of long-term dependent defence-related, selling products and services directly funding for future defence technologies and engineering on defence and indirectly primarily to the US, the UK, the Saudi Arabian capabilities in the UK.
Saudi Arabia is expected to remain spending and and other national governments.
In any single market, one of the heaviest defence spenders in the world.
reductions in defence spending depends on a complex mix of political Impact: A decrease in defence purchases by the Groups such spending considerations, budgetary constraints and the ability of the major customers could have a material adverse effect on the could adversely armed forces to meet specific threats and perform certain Groups future results of operations and financial condition.
Because of these factors, defence spending may be subject to significant fluctuations from year to year.
Mitigation: The Groups business is geographically spread across seven home markets and its products are marketed Although the Group expects growth in US defence spending to across a range of sectors within the defence arena.
In slow, it believes it is well placed to support the US Department addition, the Group uses realistic assumptions to underpin of Defenses likely emphasis on force sustainment, readiness its financial and operational planning.
The UK defence equipment budget is expected to continue to be constrained, having LARGE CONTRACTS Certain parts Description: A significant proportion of the Groups Mitigation: The Group has a large forward order book and of the Groups revenue comes from a small number of large contracts.
An analysis of the business are These contracts individually are typically worth or potentially Groups order book by major programme and operating dependent on a worth 1bn or more including, but not limited to, those group is presented on page 13.
The Board regularly reviews small number of contracts in the Programmes & Support and International the Groups performance on these contracts, and the large contracts.
Executive Committee continues to work closely with these customers to ensure the Groups strategy is aligned with Impact: The loss, expiration, suspension, cancellation or theirs refer to Strategy section on page 10. termination of any one of these contracts, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future results of operations and financial condition.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS The Groups Description: The governments of the United Kingdom, accounting and general practices relating to, government largest customer the United States and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia are contracts.
As a result of these audits and reviews, contracts are the Groups three largest end customers.
Any significant costs and prices under these contracts may be subject government disruption or deterioration in the relationship with to adjustment.
these governments and a corresponding reduction in Impact: The termination of one or more of the contracts government contracts would significantly reduce the for the Groups programmes by governments, or the failure Groups revenues.
Moreover, companies engaged in of the relevant agencies to obtain expected funding the supply of defence-related equipment and services to appropriations for the Groups programmes, could have government agencies are subject to certain business risks a material adverse effect on the Groups future results particular to the defence industry.
These governments of operations and financial condition.
could unilaterally cancel, suspend or amend their contractors funding under existing contracts or eligibility Mitigation: The Board regularly reviews the Groups for new contracts potentially at short notice.
Terms and risk performance in these home markets, and the Executive sharing agreements can also be amended.
In addition, the Committee continues to work closely with these Group, as a government contractor, is subject to financial customers to ensure the Group strategy is aligned audits and other reviews by some of its governmental with theirs refer to Strategy section on page 10. customers with respect to the performance of, and the CONTRACT TIMING The timing of Description: The Groups operating performance and cash Mitigation: The Board regularly reviews the Groups contracts could flows are dependent, to a significant extent, on the award of performance with regard to contract awards, and the materially affect defence contracts.
Executive Committee actively manages the assets and the Groups resources of the Group in line with the timing of awards.
Impact: Because the amounts payable under these future results contracts can be substantial, the timing of award or failure to of operations receive anticipated orders could materially affect the Groups and financial operating results and cash flow for the periods affected.
com FIXED-PRICE CONTRACTS The Group has Description: A significant portion of the Groups revenue during performance of a fixed-priced contract may reduce fixed-price is derived from fixed-price contracts, although the Group the profitability of such a contract or result in a loss.
has reduced its exposure to fixed-priced design and Mitigation: To manage contract-related risks and development activity which is in general more risk intensive uncertainties, contracts are managed through the application than fixed-price production activity.
An inherent risk in these of the Lifecycle Management LCM business process fixed-price contracts is that actual performance costs may mandated by the Groups Operational Framework at the exceed the projected costs on which the fixed prices for operational level refer to pages 15 and 84 for further such contracts are agreed.
The consistent application of metrics is Impact: The Groups failure to anticipate technical used to support the review of individual contract performance problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs refer to page 28 for KPIs relating to programme execution.
COMPONENT AVAILABILITY, SUBCONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE AND KEY SUPPLIERS The Group is Description: The Group is dependent upon the delivery of be sure that such items will be available in the quantities the dependent materials by suppliers and the assembly of components Group requires, if at all.
If the Group experiences a material upon component and subsystems by subcontractors used in its products supplier or subcontractor problem, its ability to satisfactorily availability, in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance and timely complete its customer obligations could be subcontractor with applicable terms and conditions.
negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, performance and termination of contracts and damage to its reputation and Impact: Some of the Groups suppliers or subcontractors key suppliers.
The Group could also incur may be impacted by the current economic environment and additional costs in addressing such a problem.
Any of these constraints on available financing, which could impair their events could have a negative impact on the Groups future ability to meet their obligations to the Group.
In addition, results of operations and financial condition.
some products require relatively scarce raw materials.
The Group is generally subject to specific procurement Mitigation: The Groups procurement function is requirements, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and responsible for establishing and managing end-to-end subcontractors the Group may utilise.
In some instances, integrated supplier arrangements.
It is led by a member the Group is dependent on sole-source suppliers.
If any of of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet the Groups continues to monitor this risk and the Group has needs, the Group may not, in the short term, have readily experienced no material negative impact to date.
While the Group enters into long-term of global economic conditions, the Group has reviewed or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and strategically important suppliers globally to assess their takes other actions to ensure the availability of needed financial health.
materials, components and subsystems, the Group cannot GLOBAL MARKET The Group is Description: BAE Systems is a global company which environment in which the Group operates: and economic exposed to conducts business in a number of regions, including downturns, political instability and civil disturbances could risks inherent the Middle East, and, as a result, assumes certain risks disrupt the Groups business activities.
in operating in associated with businesses with a broad geographical Impact: The occurrence of any such events could have a a global market.
In some countries these risks include, and are material adverse effect on the Groups future operational not limited to, the following: government regulations performance and financial condition.
and administrative policies could change quickly and restraints on the movement of capital could be imposed: Mitigation: The Group has a balanced portfolio with seven governments could expropriate the Groups assets: home markets.
burdensome taxes or tariffs could be introduced: political changes could lead to changes in the business BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 49 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED EXPORT CONTROLS AND OTHER RESTRICTIONS The Group is Description: A portion of the Groups sales is derived from Impact: Reduced access to export markets could have subject to the export of its products.
Many of the products the Group a material adverse effect on the Groups future results of export controls designs and manufactures for military or dual use are operations and financial condition.
Failure to comply with and other considered to be of national strategic interest.
The export export controls and wider regulations could expose the restrictions.
of such products outside the jurisdictions in which they Group to fines and other penalties, including potential are produced is normally subject to licensing and export restrictions on trading.
No assurance can be given Mitigation: The Group has formal systems and policies in that the export controls to which the Group is subject will place which are mandated under the Groups Operational not become more restrictive, that new generations of the Framework to ensure adherence to regulatory requirements Groups products will not also be subject to similar or more and to identify any restrictions that could adversely impact stringent controls, or that political factors or changing the Groups future activities.
international circumstances will not result in the Group being unable to obtain necessary export licences.
CONSORTIA AND JOINT VENTURES The Group is Description: The Group participates in various consortia, Impact: In the event of disagreement within a consortium, involved in joint ventures and equity holdings, exercising varying joint venture or equity holding and the business arrangement consortia, joint and evolving degrees of control.
While the Group seeks to failing to meet its strategic objectives or expected benefits, ventures and participate only in ventures in which its interests are aligned the Groups business and results of operations may be equity holdings with those of its partners, the risk of disagreement is adversely affected.
where it does inherent in any jointly controlled entity, and particularly in Mitigation: The Group has formal systems and procedures not have control.
those entities that require the unanimous consent of all in place to monitor the performance of such business members with regard to major decisions, and that specify arrangements and identify and manage any adverse restricted rights.
COMPETITION The Groups Description: Most of the Groups businesses are focused products can, in certain countries, be awarded on the basis business is on the defence industry and subject to competition from of home country preference.
Therefore, other defence subject to national and multi-national firms with substantial resources companies may have an advantage over the Group for some significant and capital, and many contracts are obtained through a defence-related contracts on the basis of the jurisdiction in competition.
The Groups ability to compete which they are organised, where the majority of their assets for contracts depends to a large extent on the effectiveness are located or where their officers or directors are located.
and innovation of its research and development programmes, Impact: In the event that the Group is unable adequately its ability to offer better programme performance than to compete in the markets in which it operates, the its competitors at a lower cost to its customers, and the Groups business and results of operations may be readiness of its facilities, equipment and personnel to adversely affected.
undertake the programmes for which it competes.
Mitigation: The Groups strong global market positioning, Additionally, in some instances, governments direct to balanced portfolio, leading capabilities and performance a single supplier all work for a particular programme, continue to address this risk refer to pages 16 to 19 for commonly known as a sole-source programme.
Although further information on the Groups positioning and portfolio.
governments have historically awarded certain programmes to the Group on a sole-source basis, they may in the future determine to open such programmes to a competitive bidding process.
Government contracts for defence-related PENSION FUNDING The Group is Description: The Group operates certain defined benefit anticipated improvements in members longevity.
An exposed to funding pension schemes.
At present, in aggregate, there is an increase in pension scheme deficit may require the Group risks in relation actuarial deficit between the value of projected liabilities to increase the amount of cash contributions payable to to the defined of these schemes and the value of the assets they hold.
these schemes, thereby reducing cash available to meet benefits under its The Group has put in place and is implementing deficit the Groups other obligations or business needs.
recovery plans in line with agreements reached with the Mitigation: The performance of the Groups pension respective scheme trustees based on actuarial advice schemes and deficit recovery plans are regularly reviewed and valuation results.
by both the Group and the Trustees of the schemes taking Impact: The amount of the deficits may be adversely actuarial and investment advice as applicable.
The results affected by a number of factors, including lower than of these reviews are discussed with the Board and assumed investment returns, changes in long-term interest appropriate action taken refer to page 150 for further rate and price inflation expectations, and greater than details of the Groups retirement benefit plans.
com ACQUISITIONS The Group has Description: The Group has experienced growth through existing assets of the Group could have a material adverse experienced acquisitions and continues to pursue acquisitions in order effect on the Groups business, future results of operations growth through to meet its strategic objectives.
Integrating the operations or financial condition.
In addition, failure to integrate acquisitions.
and personnel of acquired businesses is a complex acquisitions appropriately creates the risk of impairments Anticipated process.
The Group may not be able to integrate the arising on goodwill and other intangible assets.
benefits of operations of acquired businesses with existing operations Mitigation: The Group has an established methodology acquisitions may rapidly or without encountering difficulties.
in place to deliver the effective integration of acquisitions.
Impact: The diversion of management attention to The Group has an established policy for monitoring integration efforts and any difficulties encountered in impairment risks.
See note 1 to the Group accounts on combining operations could adversely affect the Groups page 125 for further information on the Groups approach business.
The failure to manage growth by acquisition to impairment testing.
while at the same time maintaining adequate focus on the LAWS AND REGULATIONS The Group is Description: The Groups operations are subject to contracts for some period of time or suspension of the subject to risk numerous domestic and international laws, regulations and Groups export privileges.
Non-compliance with these laws, regulations Mitigation: During the year, the Group has continued to comply with laws and restrictions could expose the Group to fines, penalties, add to its resources dedicated to its legal and regulatory and regulations.
suspension or debarment, which could have a material compliance in order to further enhance its capability to adverse effect on the Group.
The Group has contracts identify and manage the risk of compliance failure.
Internal and operations in many parts of the world and operates and external market risk assessments form an important in a highly regulated environment.
The Group is subject to element of the ongoing corporate development process.
the laws and regulations of many jurisdictions, including Policies and procedures for the appointment of advisers those of the UK and US.
These include, without limitation, engaged in business development have been further regulations relating to import-export controls, moneyrefined, and a uniform global policy and process has laundering, false accounting, anti-bribery and anti-boycott been established.
In the settlement reached with the US provisions.
From time to time, the Group is subject to Department of Justice in February 2010 in connection with government investigations relating to its operations.
its investigation commenced in 2007, the Company made Impact: Failure by the Group or its sales representatives, commitments to the Department of Justice concerning the marketing advisers or others acting on its behalf to Groups ongoing regulatory compliance, including the comply with these laws and regulations could result appointment of an independent monitor for a period of in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities resulting up to three years to monitor the Companys compliance in significant fines and penalties and or result in the with such commitments.
suspension or debarment of the Group from government EXCHANGE RATES The Group Description: The global nature of the Groups business exception by the Treasury Review Management Committee, as is exposed means it is exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates well as to manage anticipated economic cash flow exposures to volatility in respect of foreign currency denominated transactions, over the medium term.
The Group aims, where possible, in currency and the translation of net assets and income statements to apply hedge accounting treatment for all derivatives that exchange of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted investments.
hedge material foreign currency exposures.
The Group is exposed to a number of foreign currencies, not hedge the translation effect of exchange rate movements the most significant being the US dollar.
on the income statement or balance sheet of overseas subsidiaries and equity accounted investments it regards Impact: Significant fluctuations in exchange rates to as long-term investments.
Hedges are, however, undertaken which the Group is exposed could have a material adverse in respect of investments that are not considered long-term effect on the Groups future results of operations and or core to the Group.
Mitigation: In order to protect itself against currency fluctuations, the Groups policy is to hedge all material firm transactional exposures, unless otherwise approved as an Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group currently deems immaterial, may also have an adverse effect on the financial condition or business of the Group.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 51 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW SEGMENTAL PERFORMANCE 4.
Segmental performance The Group Strategic Objective is Total Performance through Customer Focus, Financial Performance, Programme Execution and Responsible Behaviour Operating group performance summary 54 Electronics, Intelligence & Support 56 Land & Armaments 60 Programmes & Support 64 International 68 HQ & Other Businesses 72 52 www.
com BAE SYSTEMS INFORMATION SOLUTIONS BAE Systems Information Solutions, part of the Electronics, Intelligence & Support operating group, monitors network operations across the US from its Network Operations Centre in Herndon, Virginia.
