70 Annual report and accounts 2009 Principal risks and risk management Risk management process Business Opportunities Benefits and risks Action plans Risk mitigation Periodic reviews objectives and risks are are assessed and are developed delivery is up to Board level are defined identified quantified to mitigate risks reviewed on an ongoing basis The effective management of risks within the Group is essential to, and underpins the are exposed.
Risk registers are used to document risk events identified, their cause delivery of, the Groups objectives.
Risks are then analysed as to the likelihood of occurrence and also their potential impact on the business.
Actions are developed and put in place The Board is responsible for ensuring that risks are identified and appropriately to mitigate or eliminate unwanted exposure.
Individuals are allocated responsibility for managed across the Group and has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility assessing and managing the risks identified to an agreed timescale.
for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including the systems established to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks.
Risks and their corresponding mitigating actions are subject to review within the Group and established business reporting systems exist to ensure that significant risks are Responsibility for risk identification, analysis, evaluation, mitigation, reporting and escalated through operating company management to senior Group management and monitoring rests with operating company management.
The Groups risk management to the Board.
policy requires all operating companies to identify and assess the risks to which they Principal risks and risk management As part of the implementation of the Groups strategy to grow and protect the business, Group management identified the need to respond to the changing business environment.
It has sought to do so by diversifying the markets and geographies in which the Group operates.
Delivery and operational External Bidding Economic environment The success in achieving this to date has produced a business portfolio, led by an Joint ventures Commercial counterparty solvency established management team supported by robust risk management processes, Project delivery Legal and regulatory which has enabled the Group to meet the challenges arising from the changing Health, safety and environmental economic and commercial environment.
Supply chain In some of the Groups markets and territories, 2009 was a challenging year, due to the ongoing effects of the economic downturn.
As a result, the Group has witnessed changes in customer spending in both the public and private sector and experienced Financial and treasury Strategic an increased risk of insolvency financial default.
This is not only within the supply Treasury risk management Acquisition chain but within elements of the Groups established customer base.
In addition, Finance and liquidity Investments the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff now means that the Group operates in a Treasury counterparty Contract bonds larger number of territories and markets than before, which potentially increases Currency the Groups risk exposure in those areas.
Interest rate Despite these changes within the business environment, the Group's established risk Pensions management and internal control systems have helped identify the effects of these Organisation and management increased risks and implement actions not only to mitigate their impact but offer People opportunity for further growth and development.
Ethics Information technology Set out below is a description of the key business risks facing the Group, their potential Information security impact and the mitigation steps taken to minimise eliminate that impact: Our business Our governance Annual report and accounts 2009 71 Risk Potential impact Mitigation External risks Economic environment The global economic downturn may cause the Groups Any significant changes in customer spending or The Group has a broad exposure to various customers to cancel, postpone or reduce existing or investment plans could adversely impact the Groups infrastructure markets across the world and this future projects.
In particular, the Group is dependent order book.
mitigates the risk of changes in spending in any on UK and US Government policies and spending for one market.
a significant part of its revenues.
Commercial counterparty solvency The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk of its Failure of a customer could result in non-collection of The financial solvency and strength of counterparties customers, subcontractors, joint venture partners, amounts owed.
Failure of a subcontractor or supplier are considered prior to the signing of contracts.
During financial institutions and suppliers.
This risk is would result in the Group undertaking the task itself the life of the contract such assessments are updated increased further by the current economic climate.
or having to find a replacement, which could result in and reviewed whenever possible.
The Group seeks to delays and additional costs.
ensure it is not over-reliant on any one counterparty.
During the life of a project, retentions, bonds and or letters of credit will be obtained, where appropriate, from subcontractors to mitigate the impact of any insolvency on their part.
Legal and regulatory The Group is subject to a number of complex, A breach of laws and regulations could lead to legal The Group monitors and responds to legal and demanding and evolving legal, tax and regulatory proceedings, investigations or disputes resulting in a regulatory developments applicable to the territories requirements.
These requirements will increase as disruption of business ranging from additional costs in which it operates.
A territorys legal and regulatory the Group continues to expand into a diverse number incurred on a project, to civil and or criminal penalties, framework is considered as part of any decision to of territories.
debarment as well as reputational damage to the Group.
move into a new territory for the Group.
Strategic risks Acquisition The Group has made and continues to make Failure to identify acquired liabilities or to integrate Detailed due diligence including preparation of a acquisitions in pursuit of its strategic objectives.
successfully the business acquired into the Groups valuation model is performed on all potential processes could result in an adverse impact on acquisitions drawing upon both internal and external the Groups future prospects, financial condition resources.
Such due diligence will also include an and profitability.
assessment of the ability to integrate the acquired business successfully into the Group.
When a business is acquired detailed integration plans are developed and monitored to ensure the successful integration of the business into the Group and its internal control framework.
Investments The Group invests in a number of PPP projects, If any of the assumptions should prove to be incorrect All investment appraisals are conducted and managed infrastructure projects across the world and they could have an adverse impact on the profitability by experienced personnel.
Revenue maximisation is infrastructure asset investments.
The success of such of those investments.
The degree of leverage involved carefully managed.
The consequent delivery risk investments is dependent on a number of assumptions in these investments means that small changes in arising from an investment activity is managed by the on future revenues and costs.
these assumptions could also negatively impact the careful selection of delivery and service partners.
In many cases such partners are Group companies.
72 Annual report and accounts 2009 Principal risks and risk management Risk Potential impact Mitigation Organisation and management risks People The success of the Group depends on its ability to Failure to recruit and retain appropriately skilled people Organisation and People reviews are undertaken recruit and retain senior management and other could adversely impact the Groups ability to deliver by each operating company to review the role, key employees.
specific contracts and its future growth.
competencies, performance and potential of personnel.
In addition, the Group has a well-developed succession planning process in place to identify and develop high potential calibre personnel to fill key roles.
These plans are reviewed and discussed at all levels within the organisation and by the Board on a regular basis.
Appropriate remuneration and incentive packages are in place to assist in the attraction and retention of key employees.
Ethics The Group operates in various international markets Failure by employees to observe the highest standards The Group has clearly set out its expectations of which may have inherent risks relating to ethical of ethics and integrity in dealing with customers, employees and operating companies in dealing with business conduct including but not limited to fraud, suppliers and other stakeholders could result in civil its stakeholders in the recently revised Code of bribery and other forms of corruption.
and or criminal penalties, debarment, as well as Conduct.
This has been distributed to all employees reputational damage to the Group.
and during 2010, e-learning will be used to raise awareness of the Code within the Group.
In addition, there are a number of financial and commercial controls in place to manage these rules.
A committee of the Board, the Business Practices Committee, monitors compliance with the Code of Conduct and the effectiveness of the Groups ethics and compliance programme.
Information technology The efficient operation of the Group is increasingly Failure to manage or integrate IT systems or to Group IT manages centrally those systems which dependent on the proper operation, performance and implement successfully changes in IT systems could affect a number of operating companies.
Other IT development of its IT systems.
result in a loss of control over critical business systems are managed within operating companies information and or systems.
This in turn could impact locally by experienced IT personnel.
Significant the Groups ability to fulfil its contractual obligations.
investments in IT systems are subject to Board review and approval.
Information security The Group is exposed to potential information security A breach of information security or an improper The Group has developed and rolled out formal threats to its own information and also that which it disclosure of such information could expose the Group information security standards which operating holds on behalf of customers in particular, in respect to adverse publicity, investigation and legal claims.
companies are expected to meet as a minimum.
of its facilities management customers.
They are subject to periodic assurance by an independent third party.
Financial and treasury risks The Financial review on page 66, together with Note 20 of the accounts, provide details of the Groups financial and treasury risks.
Pensions The Group is exposed to funding risks arising from The amount of the deficit can be affected by a number Measures to mitigate liabilities are under continuous changes in longevity, inflation and investment of factors which would result in an additional funding review by the Group.
For example, steps have been assumptions in relation to its defined benefit pension requirement.
taken to restrict certain future increases in the schemes.
At present there are actuarial deficits in principal defined benefit schemes' liabilities.
The performance of the Groups pension schemes are regularly monitored by the Group and the Trustees of the pension scheme who, as appropriate, take advice from external consultants.
Our business Our governance Annual report and accounts 2009 73 Risk Potential impact Mitigation Delivery and operational risks Bidding The Group, through its operating companies, seeks to Failure to identify risks, estimate costs and timing and All bids are subject to rigorous estimating and win work through a large number of bids each year.
how best to manage them could have an adverse tendering processes within a defined framework.
impact on the profitability of such contracts to Defined delegated authority levels exist for the the Group.
approval of all tenders with all major and significant contracts being subject to Group review and approval.
Joint ventures In certain instances where the Group may not possess In the event of a disagreement with, failure to The Group has procedures in place to ensure that it the necessary strengths expertise it will engage in deliver by, or poor performance of a joint venture selects joint venture partners with the relevant skills, joint ventures with carefully selected partners to partner, the Group could be exposed to financial experience, resources and values to complement deliver certain contracts.
The performance of joint venture partners is monitored throughout the life of the project.
Project delivery The Group is engaged in a number of complex design, Failure to manage or deliver a project to an appropriate Each operating company has operating procedures engineering, construction, facilities management and quality and on a timely basis could result in a number designed to address the risks inherent in project asset management projects.
of issues ie contract disputes, unagreed claims, design delivery.
In addition, the Groups risk management issues, cost overruns which could adversely impact framework facilitates the identification of specific the profitability and reputation of the Group.
risks on projects and the mitigating actions required.
Projects are subject to management review at all levels to monitor progress and to review steps put in place to address specific risks identified on those projects.
Health, safety and environmental The Group's activities require the continuous Failure to manage these risks could result in serious Detailed HSE policies and procedures exist to minimise monitoring and management of health, safety and harm to employees, subcontractors, the public or the such risks and are subject to review and monitoring by environmental risks.
environment and could expose the Group to significant both operating companies and Group and are also potential liabilities and reputational damage.
More details on the Groups approach to health and safety management is shown in the sustainability section on pages 56 to 61.
Supply chain The delivery of a large number of the Groups contracts The failure of a subcontractor to perform to an The Group seeks to develop long-term relationships is dependent on the continued availability and appropriate standard and quality could result in delays with its key subcontractors whilst at the same time effective management of subcontractors and other to a project and adversely impact the ability of the not becoming over-reliant on any one for the delivery service providers.
Group to meet its contractual and other commitments.
As part of its selection criteria, the Group seeks to partner with subcontractors suppliers who share its values.
