18 Performance & risk A property companys share price should reflect growth in net assets per share.
Our Groups main objective is to maximise growth in assets from increases in investment portfolio values and from retained earnings from other property related activities.
Risk is an integral part of any companys business activities and Helicals ability to identify, assess, monitor and manage each risk to which it is exposed is fundamental to its financial stability, current and future financial performance and reputation.
The returns noted above take no account of Key performance indicators and the 45m 2008: 43m surplus of trading benchmarks and development stock above book value We incentivise management to outperform arising from the directors valuation.
the Groups competitors by setting the right Total Shareholder Return levels for performance indicators against Total Shareholder Return TSR measures which rewards are measured.
We also the return to shareholders from share price design our remuneration packages to align movements and dividend income and is used managements interests with shareholders to compare returns between companies aspirations.
Key to this is the monitoring listed on the London Stock Exchange.
and reporting against identifiable performance Management is incentivised to exceed the targets and benchmarks.
For a number of top quartile of the real estate sector.
years we have reported on these, the most Helicals TSR for the year to 31 March 2009 important of which are: was -22.3% 2008: -11.4% compared to Investment Property Databank the median of the listed real estate sector The Investment Property Databank IPD of -62.2% 2008: -33.3%.
produces a number of independent Net asset value benchmarks of property returns which are Net asset value per share represents the regarded as the main industry indices.
They share of net assets attributable to each have compared the ungeared performance ordinary share.
Whilst the basic and diluted of Helicals total property portfolio against net asset per share calculation provide a that of portfolios within IPD for the last 19 guide to performance the property industry years.
The Groups annual performance prefers to use an adjusted diluted net asset target is to exceed the top quartile of the IPD per share.
The adjustments necessary to database.
Helicals ungeared performance for arrive at this figure are shown in note 35 the year to 31 March 2009 was -6.3% to these accounts.
2008: -1.6% compared to the IPD median benchmark of -24.2% 2008: -8.5% and upper Management is incentivised to exceed 15% quartile benchmark of -21.9% 2008: -6.3%.
p. a. growth in net asset value per share.
IPD all monthly and quarterly valued The adjusted diluted net asset value per funds Ungeared returns share, excluding trading stock surplus, at 31.3.
Total Returns % % % Including the surplus on valuation of trading Helical 6.3 1.6 24.1 and development stock, the diluted EPRA IPD upper quartile 21.9 6.3 17.2 net asset value per share at 31 March 2009 was 286p 2008: 352p.
Diluted Percentile rank 1 8 5 EPRA triple net asset value per share was 269p 2008: 335p.
The returns on shareholder capital earned by Helical are generally higher than those measured by IPD due to the use of gearing.
19 The Hub at Pacific Quay, Glasgow 60,000 sq.
ft. office development Completed February 2009 Performance & risk Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009 Risk management The principal strategic risks noted above Operational risks 20 and the underlying drivers of such risks are Operational risk is the risk that the Group Risk governance monitored by management and discussed may suffer a loss from inadequate internal The responsibility for the governance of the in the annual update of a five year Business processes, systems, resources, incorrect Groups risk profile lies with the Board of Plan presented by the Groups Finance decision-making or through external events.
The Board is responsible Director to the full Board each year.
for setting the Groups risk strategy by Losses from operational risk can arise from: assessing risks, determining its willingness In addition the Group receives regular people-related issues such as inadequate to accept those risks and ensuring that the updates on the impact of economic resources, skills or departure of key risks are monitored and that the Group is scenarios on the real estate sector as well personnel: aware of and, if appropriate, reacts to, changes as subscribing to a number of economic software or hardware failure, inadequate in those risks.
The Board is also responsible journals in order that senior employees are IT security, failure of back-up facilities: for allocating responsibility for risk within kept up-to-date.
incorrect or inappropriate use of valuation The Board has a schedule of matters models, inappropriate gearing levels, Strategic risks specifically reserved to it for decision.
The breaches of authorisation levels: Strategic risks are those risks that may Board controls the business but delegates adversely affect the Groups financial day-to-day responsibility to the executive fraud from internal or external sources: performance by following an inappropriate management.
However, there are a number external events leading to a loss of a strategy or by the failure to execute an of matters which are required to be or, in major provider of services e. g. contractor appropriate strategy.
Strategic risks arise the interests of the Group, should only be failure.
over a long time frame where there are decided by the Board of Directors as a fundamental differences between the whole.
The Groups approach is not to eliminate business environment in which the Group operational risk, but rather to identify the The Board monitors the financial performance operates and the environment assumed on areas in which it might arise and to contain of the Group at regular Board meetings the establishment of that strategy.
it within acceptable limits through the where comparisons against budgets and application of effective controls.
Ultimately, The Groups reputation is a key component forecasts are made together with a review the management of operational risk is of our ability to achieve its strategic goals and of key performance indicators.
dependent upon the application of sound success in meeting these goals depends The remuneration packages of senior management judgement.
The close not only on the effective management of directors and employees are seen as the involvement of the executive directors in the risks but also on the maintenance of its key to their retention and motivation.
These day-to-day running of the business is critical reputation among stakeholders i. e. employees, remuneration packages are designed to to that judgement.
investors, regulators, business partners, provide a basic level of salary at the lower financial institutions and the public.
The Group has not suffered any material to mid-range of the Groups peer group but losses arising from exposure to operational The other main strategic risks identified by with cash bonuses and share awards at the risks in the year under review.
the Group include: top end of the peer group rewarding outperformance compared to that peer group.
long-term under-performance of the real estate sector compared to alternative Risks to the Groups reputation are mitigated forms of investment e. g. equities, gilts: by the adoption of an internal Code of Conduct and whistle-blowing procedures which are regulatory changes which significantly reviewed annually.
impact on the attractiveness of real estate as an investment compared to The most recent annual review of the strategic alternative forms of investment, or on the risks faced by the Group indicate that the attractiveness of investing in real estate business of Helical is appropriate to the through a listed group: business environment in which it competes.
the effect of global events e. g. oil prices, Market conditions in the period under review international conflicts and terrorism, continued the deterioration seen in the year economic impacts of global inflation to 31 March 2008 with capital values at 31 depressions on UK real estate in general March 2009 having fallen 41.4% from their and on London, as a financial centre, peak in June 2007 and rents declining 4.9% in particular: from their peak in April 2008, as reported by the Investment Property Database IPD macro-economic changes such as Monthly Index.
The Groups decision to interest rate rises affecting yields reduce its investment portfolio in 2005 achievable on real estate: 2007, in anticipation of these falls in values, overdependence on an inadequate level reduced the impact of these valuation falls.
of business relationships restricting an Consequently, the Groups property portfolio ability to source opportunities: and, outperformed benchmark returns, as measured by IPD, by 20% and the 22.3% fall retention of key senior employees.
in Total Shareholder Return for the Group in the year to 31 March 2009 compares to a fall of 62.2% for the Listed Real Estate Sector Index.
Performance & risk Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009 Market risks Liquidity risks Credit risks 21 Market risks arise from the possibility that Liquidity risks arise from having insufficient Credit risk is the possibility that the Group the Group may suffer reduced income or a financial resources to enable the Group to may suffer a loss from the failure of its loss resulting from fluctuations in the values meet its obligations as they fall due, or can tenants, borrowers, suppliers or other of, or income from, its real estate portfolio.
only secure them at an excessive cost.
counterparties to meet their financial Liquidity risks also arise where the Group obligations to the Group, including their Market risk is a key component of the has insufficient resources to enable failure to meet them in a timely manner.
Groups long-term strategy with exposure to investment decisions, arising from its It includes the risks that the Group may the various real estate sectors fluctuating assessment of market risks, to be executed.
suffer a loss as a result of guarantees as perceptions of the future performance of to third parties.
Credit risk in order to each of those sectors change.
Net asset The Group finances its operations from the earn a return is not a central feature of value growth, a key performance indicator, cash flow generated by its operations, bank the Groups business activities, rather is dependent upon an ability to move easily borrowings, both secured and unsecured it is a consequence of those activities.
between sectors at the appropriate time.
and over short-, mediumand long-term periods, and from the capital markets The Group is exposed to credit risk in The Groups directors constantly analyse through share issues.
respect of the financial stability of the fluctuations in market movements using tenants and potential tenants in its real evidence gathered from a variety of public The management of cash and debt is estate portfolio.
It is also exposed to credit and personal sources, using this analysis to monitored daily with medium-term cash risk where cash flows from the sales of real determine the future direction of real estate flows prepared weekly and long-term cash estate, whether investment or trading investment.
flows discussed regularly in management properties or funded developments, are meetings and presented to the Board Selecting the most appropriate level of deferred.
The potential failure of major annually.
exposure to each sector is fundamental to suppliers such as contractors or subthe success of the Group.
Measuring that The Groups overall approach is to provide contractors also exposes the Group to credit success is undertaken by comparing the sufficient liquidity to be able to meet, from risk.
Guarantees to third parties, such as Groups portfolio returns over short-, mediumcash resources and available facilities, the banks, where the Group is in joint venture and long-term periods with those as reported expected requirements of the business.
The with partners expose the Group to risks that by Investment Property Databank IPD, the guiding principle is to ensure that funding is those partners are unable to fulfil their source of the main real estate sector obtained from diverse providers with a obligations.
range of maturities, backed up by interest The financial assessment of tenants, rate protection where appropriate.
This is to In the year under review, and over the mediumpotential tenants, contractors and potential ensure that a stable flow of financing is and long-term, the Groups performance partners are part of the daily routine of the available and to provide protection in the compares favourably with the rest of the Group.
The assessment of these third event of market disruption.
sector as reported by IPD on pages 2 parties is undertaken by the finance and 18.
The Groups cash resources, bank department in discussion with the executive borrowings, interest rate protection and responsible for the real estate decision.
gearing are noted on pages 64 to 70.
In the year under review bad debts constituted less than 1.50% of gross rental income and no other third parties resulted in a loss arising in the Group from their financial position.
Performance & risk Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009 22 Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009 Wroclaw, Poland 9,600 sq.
ft. out-of-town retail Completed December 2008
