Savills plc 24 Report and Accounts 2009 Risks and uncertainties facing the business Given the scale and diversity of our businesses, the Board of Directors recognises that the nature, scope and potential impact of our key business and strategic risks are subject to constant change.
The Board has implemented an appropriate framework to ensure that it has sufficient visibility of the Groups key risks and the opportunity regularly to review the adequacy and effectiveness of the controls and strategies for managing and mitigating these risks.
The Corporate governance report on pages 30 to 35 describes the systems and processes through which the Board manages and mitigates risks.
Our consideration of the key risks and uncertainties relating to the Groups operations, along with their potential impact and the mitigating factors in place, is set out below.
It is not possible to mitigate fully all of our risks and there may be other risks and uncertainties besides those listed below which may also adversely affect the Group.
Key risk Description Mitigating factors p Market conditions globally remain challenging.
The p Our strategy of diversity of product and geographic Changes in the restrictions on credit availability are ongoing and spread continues to reduce the impact on the business markets in which these, along with a shortage of quality assets for sale, of continued weak market conditions experienced we operate continue to constrain many of the key global real since 2008, these factors cannot mitigate the estate markets, and particularly reduce the volume of overall risk to earnings.
To offset these risks, we commercial real estate transactions with the resultant have implemented appropriate actions to improve adverse impact on our capital markets businesses operational efficiencies and reduce costs, whilst and overall Group earnings.
If these conditions balancing the requirements for cost reduction against continue for an extended period, or deteriorate again, the need to retain core team strength in order to Group earnings and or our financial condition could maintain client services and capitalise when conditions be adversely affected.
We have also continued to invest selectively in our business where new opportunities present themselves such as property management and fund management which provide more stable earnings.
p Our continual monitoring of market conditions and review of market changes against our Group strategy, supported by the quarterly reforecasting undertaken by all of our businesses, remain key to our ability to respond rapidly to further changes in our operating environment.
p The markets in which we operate remain highly p To remain competitive in all markets it is imperative that Achieving the right competitive and we need to ensure that we continue we continue to provide the quality of client care and market positioning to reflect the changing needs of our clients.
service that our clients expect from us.
This need in response to the drives our strategy to continue to strengthen the needs of our clients services offered by the Group, which has served us well in our currently unsettled markets, and invest in the development of client relationships.
p The maintenance of our geographic capabilities during this period of weakened market conditions is aligned with our focus on further developing our service capabilities in the major global markets in which we operate.
Reputational and p Savills is a brand with an excellent reputation in the p We recognise that our brand strength is vital principal markets in which we operate.
to maintaining market share and expanding brand risk into new markets.
To this end, we have a brand p We recognise the need to maintain our reputation as management programme in place to ensure the a quality brand and ensure the quality of the service brands positioning, identity and personality is we provide.
p We recognise that the quality of the service we offer is vital to maintaining the brand and to this end we have in place controls and processes to ensure quality assurance.
Our business Savills plc 25 Report and Accounts 2009 Key risk Description Mitigating factors p We recognise that our ability to deliver our strategy is p During 2009 we continued our investment in talent Recruitment and dependent on us attracting, developing, motivating management and development programmes across retention of high and retaining people of the highest quality.
This is a number of our businesses and the global roll-out of calibre staff fundamental to the future success of our business.
Whilst we pride ourselves on our reputation for p To augment our profit-sharing approach to excellence as an employer and our profit-sharing remuneration, we make selective use of share based approach to remuneration, which incentivises and and other longer term incentives to ensure that our rewards out-performance, we recognise that this people are incentivised to continue to perform at the model can come under pressure in periods of lower established high levels during periods when market Group earnings.
conditions hold back our performance.
p We are required to meet a broad range of regulatory p All areas relating to professional, regulatory and Maintaining standards compliance requirements in each of the markets statutory compliance have benefitted by the continuing of professional, in which we operate.
For example, in the UK, the update of our Group Policy Framework which defines regulatory and Financial Services Authority FSA regulates the the compliance standards we expect from our statutory compliance conduct of Savills Private Finance, Savills Capital businesses.
In support of this Framework each of our Advisors and Cordea Savills, and the insurance businesses have their own regulatory and statutory mediation businesses in our Commercial businesses.
compliance resources in place and they maintain the In addition, the UK Office of Fair Trading regulates our internal processes and controls required to fulfil our Residential business in the UK.
A number of the services compliance obligations.
Our compliance environment, we provide through our Commercial and Residential at all levels, is subject to regular review by internal audit businesses are also regulated by The Royal Institution and other assurance providers.
Also, a number of our employees are qualified members of RICS.
Failure to satisfy regulatory compliance requirements may result in fines being imposed, adverse publicity and brand reputational damage and ultimately the withdrawal of regulatory approvals.
p We also have a number of key statutory obligations including the protection of the health, safety and welfare of our employees and others affected by our activities.
p In accepting client engagements, group companies p The Group legal policy is designed to ensure that Legal risk may be subject to standard of care obligations.
legal risk of such claims being made in the markets in Failure to fulfil these obligations could result in claims which we operate, is minimised particularly in relation being made against the relevant group company to consultancy services such as valuations.
Whilst the and or its employees.
Group maintains professional indemnity insurance to respond to such claims, the funding of, for example, p In our Property Management business, we may assume the self insured amount of any claim ie, the policy responsibility for appointing and or supervising third deductible or the adverse outcome of claims in excess party contractors that provide construction and of the policy indemnity levels could negatively impact engineering services for our managed properties.
our financial condition or results.
Again failure to discharge these responsibilities in accordance with our obligations could result in claims being made against the group companies.
Responding to p Our continued geographic expansion means that our p Extensive market research and due diligence success depends in part on understanding and is conducted before we enter new markets.
political risks in the responding to the changing political and legislative Developments in all our markets are kept under countries in which conditions in the many countries around the world in ongoing review and the requirements of the Group we operate globally which we do business.
Risk Management Policy, specifically the need to regularly evaluate the key risks in each market that we operate in, extend to all of our businesses globally.
p For all areas of financial risk we have an established p The key financial risks and uncertainties are covered Managing our financial control framework with clear responsibilities in the Financial Review on pages 16 and 17. financial risks for operational and finance teams at all levels of the Group.
