23 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Principal risks and uncertainties BlackLining Demo RISKS THAT COULD IMPACT THE ACHIEVEMENT OF STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES.
The identi cation, evaluation, management and monitoring of the most signi cant risks that face the group are the responsibility of the board.
Risk identi cation procedures take into account each of the seven strategic objectives outlined on page 2.
Mitigating actions are taken, where possible, in order to reduce these risks to acceptable levels.
Further details of our risk management procedures are included within the corporate governance BlackLining Demo statement on pages 37 and 38.
David Lawler Company Secretary 1 Delivering organic revenue growth Risk description Potential impact Mitigation k Reduction in future pro tability and cash ow.
k Long range plans until 2012 based on The European economies in which agreed scenarios.
k Limit to the groups ability to complete its strategy the group operates do not return within its chosen markets.
k Further actions taken to reduce capacity to economic growth as forecast if the and overhead where necessary.
recovery is weaker than anticipated.
k Increased controls over capital expenditure and working capital.
k Monthly reports by business units show key changes in trading against latest forecast assumptions.
k Reduced pro tability and cash ow.
k Approved 2010 Budget and action plan.
Further deterioration in market BlackLining Demo k Impairment of goodwill.
k Steering committee to assist with transformation presence and or pro tability of the business.
of the German healthcare business.
k Ongoing review of volumes, capacity and cost base.
k Monthly Regional Managing Director Reports update the board on progress.
k Regular reviews with principal hotel groups.
Reduction in hotel volumes k Volumes and prices regularly monitored and formally and pressure on pricing in the UK reviewed internally each month.
and Ireland and Nordic regions.
k Volume relocated to optimise use of capacity.
k Where necessary plants mothballed to reduce short-term capacity and or considered for healthcare volume requirements.
2 Delivering on acquisitions Risk description Potential impact Mitigation k Failure to achieve the identi ed business k Detailed reviews of cross-selling opportunities, Failure to deliver in accordance bene ts and failure to establish an instrument new business wins and customer retention.
with the Clinical Solutions business decontamination business.
k Ongoing and frequent project reviews acquisition model.
of decontamination business and building of decontamination centres for contract gains.
k Management strengthened by transfer in of experienced Sunlight middle management, restructuring of sales teams, and reporting lines restructured with direct involvement of Sunlights Board members during the critical start-up phase of decontamination.
k Regular reporting against acquisition targets.
k Cautious on further investment contract negotiations until business model proved out.
24 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 Principal risks and uncertainties continued BlackLining Demo Fire prevention procedures During 2009 we continued to place great emphasis on the importance of our re prevention procedures.
This included the installation of new sprinkler systems in Hagen, Germany.
We will continue to review and improve our re prevention procedures and business continuity planning arrangements.
3 Maintaining operational ef ciency Risk description Potential impact Mitigation k Inability to service customer requirements k Fire protection security procedures and regular Unforeseen loss of capacity.
and adverse impact on reputation.
k Independent surveys to assess the design and effectiveness of plant re protection, security BlackLining Demo and business continuity arrangements.
k Documented and evaluated continuity plans including identi cation of alternative production locations.
k Comprehensive Property Damage and Business Interruption insurance.
k Business unit contingency planning in order A u pandemic results in signi cant k Failure to service our customers requirements.
to address the impacts of a u pandemic, both levels of employee absenteeism.
k Employee communication on practical steps to limit transfer of infection.
k Shortage of textiles and inability to service new k Regular risk assessment of our major textile One of our major textile suppliers and existing customer requirements.
suppliers to identify areas of most exposure, is unexpectedly unable to meet our considering social, political and economic factors.
k Identi cation of alternative production sources in case of interruption to supply.
k Secured availability of alternative stocks in the event of a serious interruption to supply.
4 Maintaining a sound financial position BlackLining Demo Risk description Potential impact Mitigation k Reduced liquidity and working capital funds, k Monthly management accounts analyse free cash ow.
which in extremity may impact on the groups k Free cash ow targets agreed with each business unit ability to continue as a going concern.
as part of the annual budget process.
k Free cash ow formally reforecast three times each year and reviewed monthly.
k Business unit senior management bonus structure includes targets for free cash ow.
k Borrowings in currencies to provide hedge against Foreign currency exposures k Unexpected variations in net earnings.
investments in overseas net assets.
k Majority of Euro, DKK and SEK assets are hedged by borrowings.
k 572 million 77% of borrowings at xed rates including interest rate swaps.
k Interest rate movements continually monitored and reviewed with the Board at least every six months.
k Adverse impact on cash ow k The Davis Service Group Retirement Bene ts Signi cant increase in the liability and retained earnings.
Scheme is closed to new entrants.
associated with the main UK fide ned k The company and the Trustees Investment bene t pension scheme.
Sub-Committee regularly discuss the funds risk pro le, funding and investment policies, and legislative changes.
k Following actuarial valuations every three years, or as required, agreement of Schedule of Contributions between the company and the trustees in order to meet future accrued pension rights.
k Regular meetings between the company and the chairman of the trustees.
25 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors BlackLining Demo 5 Maintaining health and safety as a priority Risk description Potential impact Mitigation k Damage to reputation and or loss of licence k Local health, safety and re management systems.
Breach of health and safety to operate.
regulations or lack of cleanliness k Prompt incident reporting procedures to senior of staff and or facilities.
k Monthly reports to Chief Executive detailing any major incidents.
k Regular board review of major incidents and statistics.
k Loss of customer goodwill, damage to reputation k Nominated and appointed public relations advisers.
and or loss of licence to operate.
k Any signi cant media-related incidents are promptly reported to the Chief Executive and the board.
6 Maintaining a motivated workforce driven by an experienced management team Risk description Potential impact Mitigation k Lack of internal succession to key k Succession planning reviewed annually by Inadequate talent management.
management roles within the group nomination committee with Group Chief Executive.
BlackLining Demo in the event of unexpected departure.
k Regional talent management programmes k Short medium-term disruption to the business.
in place which are reviewed regularly by the executive board.
k Succession planning recurring agenda item at executive board.
k Shortage of appropriately skilled management.
k Remuneration packages for executive and senior Inability to recruit and retain management reviewed annually with benchmarking.
suf ciently quali ed and k Ongoing management development programmes.
k Chief Executive regularly reviews current and future management requirements.
7 Reducing our impact on the environment Risk description Potential impact Mitigation k Loss of licence to operate, loss of customer k Board approved CR Policies communicated Non-compliance with Group goodwill and or damage to reputation.
Corporate Responsibility CR Policies k Prompt incident reporting procedures to senior including Environmental Policy.
k Ongoing recording and monitoring of water, electricity, chemicals, oil gas costs.
BlackLining Demo k Research programmes with suppliers to reduce water, energy and chemical usage rates.
k Development and maintenance of ongoing procedures to monitor compliance with the United Nations Global Compacts Ten Principles.
2009 ICSA Hermes Transparency in Governance Awards We were pleased to be nominated for two of the 2009 ICSA Hermes Transparency in Governance awards and were delighted to receive the FTSE 250 award for best practice disclosure on risk management and internal control.
