UNITE UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 26 Risks and uncertainties Risk description Impact Mitigation Development Management risks Failure to secure sites at Unable to generate returns in line Skilled development team and strong with plans reputation.
Focus on off-market attractive prices transactions Failure or delays in obtaining Cost of aborted schemes.
Low schemes impacting financial returns financial investment in schemes prior planning consents to grant of planning Delays in completion of construction Reduced financial returns and cash tied Strong track record and focus on up.
Impact on reputation with customers project delivery and strong relationships in time for the start of academic year with construction partners with appropriate or cost over-runs risk sharing.
Use of UNITEs unique off-site manufacturing modular technology, reducing delivery and cost risk Property and Asset Management risks Risk arising from short-term nature Revenues are uncertain.
Supply demand as a result of economic downturn imbalance.
Strong sales and marketing of tenancies occupancy and rents expertise General cost inflation, in particular on the Reduced return on investment portfolio Forward purchase of utilities.
Annual opportunity to increase rent to recover cost of utilities additional costs Fund Management Ability to determine strategy of Funds JVs Conflicts of interest Established separate fund management function not in line with Group strategy Risk of being forced to sell properties Properties sold below valuation Contractual limits on redemption rate in USAF.
Proactive management of fund if redemption requests cannot be met investors, equity raising and alternative sources of finance Financing Liquidity risk Properties may be difficult to sell, Management of debt maturity.
Control potentially impacting cash flow of future cash commitments Adverse interest rate movements Reduced profitability Hedge exposure with interest rate swaps Breach of borrowing covenants Debt becomes immediately repayable Regular forecasting of covenant position.
Proactive management of any potential issues UNITE UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 27 Risk description Impact Mitigation Market risks Concentration of assets in student Reduced student numbers impacting Geographic diversification and in-depth financial performance market intelligence accommodation sector Changes in Government policy may affect May reduce demand and hence prices Supply demand imbalance is significant at present and demand from overseas student numbers is increasing.
Strong sales and marketing expertise Property markets are cyclical and Under over performance of investment Clear and active asset portfolio management strategy performance depends on general economic conditions Impact of changes in legislation, particularly Increased cost of compliance leading to Highly developed skill base for managing reduced returns or, in extremis, scheme planning process and building design.
in respect of environmental legislation and cancellation Minimum investment made in schemes planning regulations prior to securing planning General Attracting and retaining the best people Critical to delivering business strategy UNITE is a values-based organisation.
This means we recruit to a clear set of behaviours and seek to develop people to their full potential with leading in-house learning and development.
We measure employee satisfaction through regular surveys and act on employee feedback Reputational risk with universities, Reduced lettings, difficult to attract the Experienced brand, sales and marketing best people and weaker relationships with teams.
Respond to customer feedback students or parents university clients, planners and other and strong focus on safety of our stakeholders customers and staff with regular audits.
Strong focus on meeting customer needs with research-based product and service development Our process for managing risk is set out in more detail on page 36 of the Corporate Governance section of this Annual report.
