3i Group plc Report and accounts 2009 Risk Introduction Risk management operates at all levels throughout the Group, across business lines, geographies and professional functions.
The Board This section sets out the main elements of 3is risk management is ultimately responsible for risk management, which includes the framework together with a description of the main inherent risk Groups risk governance structure and maintaining an appropriate factors facing the Group, and a review of the evolution and internal control framework.
Managements responsibility is to management of the Groups key risks during the year.
Further manage risk on behalf of the Board.
details on the management of key risks, and related results and outcomes, can be found in the relevant sections of the annual By reporting regularly to Audit and Compliance Committee, the report shown under Further information column in the table on Groups Compliance and Internal Audit functions provide support page 49. to the Board in maintaining effective risk management across the Group.
This risk management framework and the main responsibilities of each committee are shown below.
Risk management framework The key components of 3is risk management framework, which 3i has a risk management framework which provides a structured are regularly reviewed, remain fundamentally the same as last and consistent process for identifying, assessing and responding to year, with some modifications to address the increased risks risks in relation to the Groups strategy and business objectives.
related to the deterioration in market and economic conditions: most notably the introduction of weekly meetings of a subcommittee of the Group Risk Management Committee chaired by the Chief Executive.
This is considered in more detail in the Review of risks on page 52.
Risk governance Group Risk Management Committee Responsible for overall risk management process Monitors changes in external risk environment Reviews reports from Investment, Operational and Financial Risk Committees Reports to Audit and Compliance Committee Investment Committee Conflicts Committee Takes or recommends investment decisions on individual Decides issues on conflicts arising in investment process and opportunities other areas Health and Safety Committee Reviews Health and Safety arrangements and policy.
Monitors implementation and performance Operational Risk Committee Provides input to the setting of investment policy and guidelines Corporate Responsibility Committee Deals with all aspects of operational risk Recommends socially responsible investment policy.
Identifies and promotes awareness of corporate responsibility and developments, opportunities and risks Financial Risk Committee Regulatory Risk Forum Assesses financial risk including treasury and funding risk Provides regulatory input to investment policy.
Identifies and promotes Quarterly monitoring of portfolio composition awareness of regulatory developments and risks Detailed information about 3is approach to corporate responsibility and its performance during the year are set out in the Corporate responsibility section on pages 53 to 64.
