3i Group plc Report and accounts 2009 Overview 0112 Business review 1332 Case studies 3336 Financial review 3746 Risk 4752 Corporate responsibility 5364 Governance 6590 Financial statements 91120 Portfolio and additional information 121144 Risk factors Risk type Key developments Further information Risk mitigation Adverse economic and market Overview Regular Group Risk Management External conditions impacting i liquidity and Committee and Board reviews Chairmans statement, 3i at a Risks arising from current, proposed net debt: ii investment levels: glance, Our priorities and strategy, Close monitoring of regulatory and and anticipated political, legal, iii portfolio performance and Chief Executives statement fiscal developments in main markets regulatory, economic and competitor iv valuations Diversified investment portfolio Business review changes Regulatory developments in a range of sectors, with different Market conditions, 3is approach economic cycles, across geographical markets Organisational changes, including Overview Monitoring of a range of key Strategic changes to senior management performance indicators, forecasts Chairmans statement, 3i at a glance, Risks arising from the analysis, design and periodic updates of plans and Acceleration or initiation of corporate Our priorities and strategy, and implementation of the Groups underlying assumptions projects in context of current market Chief Executives statement business model, and key decisions Regular monitoring by Group Risk Business review on the investment levels and capital Management Committee Market conditions, 3is approach allocations Monitoring of key projects Significantly reduced investment and Overview Investment Committee approval Investment realisation levels of all significant investments 3i at a glance Risks in respect of specific asset Impact of current economic Regular asset reviews, including risk Business review investment decisions, the subsequent environment on portfolio assessments Market conditions, 3is approach: performance of an investment or management processes: earnings: Representation by a 3i investment Investment activity, Business lines exposure concentrations across leverage: valuation multiples executive on the boards of investee business line portfolio Financial review companies Returns, Portfolio and assets under Portfolio is subject to periodic reviews management at both the business line and Group Financial statements levels to monitor exposure to any Portfolio and additional information one sector or geography Credit risk exposure is managed on Impact of market and economic Overview Treasury and funding an asset-specific basis by individual turbulence on Groups financial Chief Executives statement Risks arising from investment managers position, in particular liquidity and net Business review i uncertainty in market prices debt, and currency management Regular Board reviews of the Groups market conditions and rates, financial resources Financial review ii an inability to raise adequate funds Regular reviews of liquidity, gearing, to meet investment needs or meet capital structure, gearing and liquidity net debt and large currency exposures obligations as they fall due, or Financial statements iii inappropriate capital structure Execution of organisational changes Business review Line management at all levels is Operational and other corporate initiatives responsible for identifying, assessing, Corporate responsibility report Risk arising from inadequate or failed controlling and reporting operational Governance report processes, people and systems or risks from external factors affecting these Framework of core values, global policies, a code of business conduct and delegated authorities are in place Independent internal audit function carries out periodic reviews The table above sets out the definitions of each key risk type: the key developments for each category during the year: the relevant sections of the annual report where further information can be found on the key developments: and a summary of the main risk mitigation processes.
The principal components of each risk type are explained in more detail on pages 50 to 52 followed by a commentary on the main changes to the Groups risk profile during the year.
49 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2009 Risk 3i complies with the Guidelines for Disclosure and Transparency in External risks Private Equity, known as the Walker guidelines, which is a voluntary Macroeconomic risks code published in November 2007.
Further details are set out on 3i invests mainly in European companies and continues to develop its pages 140 to 142.
The Groups Pillar 3 disclosure document can be operations in Asia and North America.
The performance of the Groups found at www.
underlying investment portfolio is influenced by economic growth, interest rates, currency movements and changes in commodity and Strategic risks energy prices.
Market conditions for initial public offerings, the level of mergers and acquisitions activity, the number of active trade or other The Groups strategy is based on a full analysis of its operating private equity buyers and the availability of debt finance, all have an environment.
In determining the appropriate business model, impact, not only on the Groups ability to invest but on the Groups market and sector evaluations are taken into account, as well as the ability to exit from its underlying portfolio, or on the levels of identification and assessment of external and internal risk factors.
Significant unexpected changes or outcomes, beyond those factored into the Groups strategy and business model, may occur which could To mitigate this, 3i aims to invest over time in a range of sectors, have an impact on the Groups performance or financial position.
with different economic cycles, across its different business lines and geographical markets.
This is addressed through the monitoring of a range of key performance indicators, forecasts and periodic updates of plans Comments on current market conditions and 3is approach are set out and underlying assumptions.
on pages 15 to 17 of the Business review.
A commentary on the impact of current market conditions, and 3is Geopolitical risk priorities and strategy in this context, is set out in the Overview Part of the Groups investment strategy is to invest in new and section on pages 1 to 12. emerging markets.
The legal, regulatory and capital frameworks in these markets may be less developed than in the other main Investment risks geographical markets in which the Group operates.
Changes and Investment decisions developments in each market are monitored closely to ensure that The Group operates in a very competitive market.
Changes in the any impact on the value of existing investments, planned levels of number of market participants, the availability of funds within the investment or investment returns are, as far as possible, anticipated, market, the pricing of assets, or in the ability to access deals on a understood and acted upon.
This work includes periodic legal and proprietary basis could have a significant effect on the Groups regulatory updates by geography, in-depth market and sector research competitive position and on the sustainability of returns.
and regular reviews for existing investments.
Entry into new geographical markets is subject to extensive market research and due diligence.
The ability of the Group to source and execute good quality investments in such markets is dependent upon a range of factors.
The most Government policy and regulation important of these include: i the ability to attract and develop 3i Investments plc, 3i Europe plc and 3i Nordic plc, all wholly-owned people with the requisite investment experience and cultural fit: subsidiaries of 3i Group plc, are authorised persons under the Financial ii organisation of teams whose structure is market-adapted Services and Markets Act 2000 and regulated by the FSA in the and whose compensation is results-oriented: and iii effective United Kingdom.
Where applicable, certain 3i subsidiaries businesses application of collective knowledge and relationships to each outside the United Kingdom are regulated locally by relevant authorities.
Changes to the regulatory frameworks under which the Group operates 3is investment appraisal is undertaken in a rigorous manner.
are closely monitored by the Operational Risk Committee.
There This includes approval by the relevant business line partnerships, are also appropriate processes and procedures in place, including a and where appropriate, peer review by executives from other business dedicated Group Compliance function, whose remit is to minimise lines, together with 3is international network of industry and sector the risk of a breach of applicable regulations which could affect the specialists.
Investments over 5 million are presented to an Investment Groups compliance costs, its business or results.
Committee chaired by an authorised member of the Management The European Commission has recently released its proposal for a Committee and comprising our senior investment executives.
Directive on Alternative Investment Fund Managers which covers hedge funds and private equity as well as recommendations on Investment performance executive remuneration and remuneration in the financial services The performance of the Groups portfolio is dependent upon a range sector.
The first draft Directive contains requirements on of factors.
These include, but are not limited to: i the quality of authorisations, reporting and disclosure and minimum capital, and the initial investment decision described above: ii the business could come into force in 2011 if agreement on the proposals is strategy and the ability of the portfolio company to execute that reached by the end of this year.
This is part of the Commissions business strategy: iii actual outcomes against the key assumptions response to the current financial crisis.
underlying the portfolio companys financial projections: and iv market conditions which affect the value of investments.
Any one of 3i carries on business as an investment trust under section 842 of these factors could have an impact on the valuation of a portfolio the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Continuation of this company and upon the Groups ability to make a profitable exit from approval is subject to the Company directing its affairs in line with the investment within the desired timeframe.
the requirements of the legislation.
Changes in government policy and taxation legislation which could affect the results of the Groups A rigorous process is put in place for managing the relationship operations or financial position are closely monitored.
with each investee company for the period through to realisation.
50 This includes regular asset reviews and, in many cases, board representation by a 3i investment executive.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2009 Overview 0112 Business review 1332 Case studies 3336 Financial review 3746 Risk 4752 Corporate responsibility 5364 Governance 6590 Financial statements 91120 Portfolio and additional information 121144 Investment concentration Liquidity risk The Group invests across a range of economic sectors and geographies.
The Group invests from its own balance sheet using cash generated Over-exposure to a particular sector or geography could increase the from its investing activities and its core funding.
The Group also has impact of adverse changes in macroeconomic or market conditions on available to it undrawn committed facilities.
In addition to funding the Group.
An increase in the average size of investments over time from its own balance sheet, the Group periodically raises external could also increase the exposure of the Group to the performance of funds and also invests indirectly through funds administered by third a small number of large investments, albeit in different sectors and or parties, or quoted investment vehicles.
The portfolio is subject to periodic reviews by the Unexpected changes in the levels of investment and divestment Financial Risk Committee and by individual business lines in order to activities or in interest rates could impact the availability of funds monitor exposure to any one sector or geography and to monitor the required for investment needs or to meet obligations as they fall due.
One of the conditions set out under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 is that To manage this, a range of cash flow forecasts are produced and no single investment can exceed 15% of the Groups investment updated on a weekly basis for each business line and for the Group portfolio to maintain the Groups tax status as an Investment as a whole.
These forecasts are reviewed weekly by the Group Risk Trust.
This also mitigates the Groups exposure to investment Management Committee.
The Board reviews the Groups financial concentration risk.
This includes consideration of the currency hedging and maturity profile aspects, as well as liquidity, Investment valuations and exit opportunities of the Groups current and forecast financial position.
The valuation of 3is portfolio and opportunities for realisations depend to a considerable extent on stock market conditions and the state Price risk of the wider mergers and acquisitions market.
Changes in market or The value of quoted investments is directly related to the relevant macroeconomic conditions impact the valuation of portfolio assets market and so subject to price risk.
The value of unquoted investments and the ability to exit those investments profitably within the desired depends upon a combination of market factors and the performance timeframe.
The Group does not currently hedge the market risk inherent in the portfolio but manages asset performance Further information on investment activity and market conditions is risk on an asset-specific basis.
set out in the Business review section on pages 13 to 32.
Investment performance is covered in the Financial review on pages Foreign exchange risk 37 to 46.
3i reports in sterling and pays dividends from its sterling profits.
The Group seeks to reduce structural currency exposures by matching Details of 3is investment process, current portfolio and valuation investment assets denominated in foreign currency with borrowings in methodology are provided in the Portfolio and additional information the same currency.
The Group also makes use of derivative financial section on pages 121 to 144. instruments to effect foreign exchange risk management.
Assets denominated in currencies other than sterling have historically Treasury and funding risks been hedged using a combination of currency borrowings and short- 3is funding objective is that each category of investment asset is term derivative contracts.
In recent years, the use of short-term broadly matched with liabilities and shareholders funds according to contracts increased.
During the year, the cost of rolling over these the risk and maturity characteristics of the assets and that funding contracts increased to such an extent that the Board decided to rely needs are met ahead of planned investment.
solely on currency borrowings as the hedging strategy.
In the short term, 3i is therefore only partially hedged through the Credit risk use of matching borrowings and will be exposed to potential foreign 3is financial assets are predominantly unsecured investments in exchange fluctuations.
In order to reduce this exposure, the Board will unquoted companies.
An increase in concentration of the portfolio review the introduction of a more comprehensive hedging strategy as in a particular economic sector or geography could increase credit risk.
Likewise, large or unexpected increases in interest rates could increase credit risk, particularly in companies which are highly leveraged.
Interest rate risk The Group considers the maximum credit risk to be the carrying value 3i has a mixture of fixed and floating-rate assets.
The assets are funded of loans and receivables and credit risk exposure is managed on an with a combination of shareholders funds and borrowings according asset specific basis by individual investment managers.
Regular asset to the risk characteristics of the assets.
The Board seeks to minimise reviews within each business line provide an insight into the trading interest rate exposure by considering the average life profile of the performance of individual assets and give an early indication of increased various asset classes and adopting a portfolio approach to the interest credit risk.
Leverage levels and performance of individual assets are rate hedging structure.
Some derivative financial instruments are used also reviewed periodically by the Financial Risk Committee.
These derivative positions are limited to plain vanilla instruments and do not include exotic options.
The Groups remaining credit risk exposure is in financial assets, which are mainly in the form of deposits with banks of a credit rating of AA A commentary on the Groups capital structure, gearing, liquidity and or better.
Counterparty limits are set and closely monitored.
currency hedging can be found on page 46 of the Financial review.
Further details on financial risk management are set out in note 17 to the Financial statement on pages 109 to 112.
