Risks and uncertainties Contents 21 Risks and uncertainties 22 Risk management 22 Introduction 23 External risks 23 Strategic risks 23 Investment risks 23 Treasury and funding risks 24 Operational risks 22 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Risks and uncertainties the Investment Adviser and other key service Risk management Introduction providers, as well as on the risk management The Company has a risk management The Board is ultimately responsible for the risk operations of each portfolio company.
framework which provides a structured and management of the Company, which includes The Company manages these risks through consistent process for identifying, assessing the oversight of the Companys risk updates from the Investment Adviser and and responding to risks in relation to its governance structure and maintaining an other service providers and, where possible, strategy and business objectives.
Due to the appropriate internal control framework for the through representation on portfolio structure of the Company, it is reliant on the Company.
The Board has a risk matrix which it companies boards.
risk management and control framework of monitors and updates regularly.
Risk assessment Risk types and controls Risk description Risk mitigation and control External Risks arising from political, legal, regulatory, Review of potential new geographies, economic and competitor changes markets and sectors for investment subject to extensive due diligence Monitoring of regulatory and fiscal developments Diversification of the investment portfolio by sector and geography Modelling the sensitivity of the investment to macroeconomic variables and undertaking hedging where appropriate to mitigate risk Strategic Risks arising from the analysis, design and Monitoring of key performance indicators implementation of the Companys business and forecasts model and key decisions on investment Undertaking regular strategic reviews growth rates and financing Reviewing and testing underlying assumptions in the Companys business model Investment Risks in respect of specific asset investment Approval process for all investments decisions, the subsequent performance of an Regular portfolio asset reviews investment or concentration exposure within sectors in the portfolio Investment Adviser representation on the board of portfolio companies Concentration review for each new asset Treasury and funding Risks arising from: Borrowings maturity analysis against cash flow requirements i inability to raise adequate funds to meet investment needs or obligations as they Credit finance risk monitored on each asset fall due: Hedging of currency exposure on individual ii uncertainty in market prices, rates and assets counterparty risk: and Regular Board review of funding options and iii inappropriate capital structure review of counterparty limits Operational Risks arising from inadequate or failed Annual Board review of performance of processes, systems or people both in 3i Investment Adviser service providers Infrastructure and in key service providers to Audit Committee review of controls within whom investment advice and operational Investment Adviser service providers support are outsourced Service providers responsible for assessing, controlling and reporting operational risks 3i Infrastructure plc 23 Annual report and accounts 2009 Infrastructure assets which provide essential Investment performance External risks services are often regulated.
Regulated assets The performance of the Companys portfolio is Macroeconomic risks will be subject to periodic reviews by the dependent upon a range of factors.
These The Company has invested mainly in Europe appropriate regulatory body.
The outcome of include, but are not limited to: i the quality of directly and in Asia through the 3i India such reviews may impact the returns the initial investment decision described Infrastructure Fund.
The performance of the generated from the asset, including the above: ii the ability of the portfolio company underlying investment portfolio is influenced valuation.
The Company, through the to execute successfully its business strategy: by economic growth, interest rates, inflation Investment Adviser, where applicable, will and iii actual outcomes against the key rates, currency movements and changes in assist portfolio companies with regulatory assumptions underlying the portfolio commodity and energy prices within each reviews and monitor regulatory developments.
Any one of geographic region.
The level of mergers and these factors could have an impact on the acquisitions activity, the number of active Strategic risks valuation of a portfolio company and upon the trade or other infrastructure or private equity The Companys strategy is based on a full Companys ability to make a profitable exit buyers, the availability of well-priced debt analysis of its operating environment.
from the investment within the desired finance and market conditions for initial public In determining the appropriate business model, timeframe.
offerings, all have an impact on the Companys market and sector evaluations are taken into A rigorous process is put in place for ability to invest in a particular location and on account, as well as the identification and managing the relationship with each portfolio the performance of the underlying portfolio assessment of external and internal risk company.
This includes regular asset reviews companies.
Significant unexpected changes or and in many cases, where equity is held, Board outcomes, beyond those factored into the To mitigate this, the Company aims to invest representation by an investment executive Companys strategy and business model, over time in a range of infrastructure sectors, from the investment advisory team.
may occur which could have an impact on the with different economic cycles and across Companys performance or financial position.
Investment concentration different geographical markets.
This includes This is addressed through the monitoring of a expansion to the United States, which further The Company invests across a range of range of key performance indicators, forecasts diversifies the portfolio.
Over and periodic updates of plans and underlying exposure to a particular sector or geography Geopolitical risk assumptions.
could increase the impact of adverse changes Part of the Companys investment strategy is in macroeconomic or market conditions on the to invest in less mature or emerging markets.
Any increase in the average size of The legal, regulatory and capital frameworks in Investment decisions investments over time could also increase the these markets may be less developed than in exposure of the Company to the performance The Company operates in a competitive the other main geographical markets in which of a small number of large investments, albeit market.
Changes in the number of market the Company operates.
Changes and in different sectors and or geographies.
The participants, the availability of finance within developments in all the Companys markets portfolio concentration measures are subject the market, the pricing of assets, or in the are monitored closely to ensure that any to periodic review by the Board.
ability to access deals on a proprietary basis impact on the value of existing investments, could have a significant effect on the Investment valuations planned levels of investment or investment Companys competitive position and on the returns are, as far as possible, anticipated, The valuation of the portfolio depends to sustainability of returns.
This work some extent on macroeconomic conditions.
includes periodic legal and regulatory updates The ability of the Company to source and Changes in market or macroeconomic by geography, in-depth market and sector execute good quality investments in such conditions could impact the valuation of research and regular reviews for existing markets is dependent upon a range of factors.
This is mitigated to some investments.
Any proposed entry into new The most important of these include: i the degree by building portfolio diversification.
geographical markets is subject to extensive advice of the Investment Adviser and its ability market research and due diligence.
to attract and develop people with the Treasury and funding risks requisite investment experience and cultural Government policy and regulation The Companys funding objective is that each fit: and ii effective application of collective category of investment asset is broadly The Company is regulated by the Jersey knowledge and relationships to each matched with liabilities and shareholders Financial Services Commission and the investment opportunity.
funds, according to the risk and maturity Investment Adviser is an authorised person characteristics of the assets, and that funding under the Financial Services and Markets Act Investment appraisal is undertaken in a needs are met ahead of planned investment.
2000 and regulated by the Financial Services rigorous manner through the Investment Authority in the United Kingdom.
Changes to Adviser and the Board.
The Board is appraised Credit risk the regulatory frameworks under which the of work-in-progress by the Investment The Companys financial assets are Company operates are closely monitored.
However, investments are considered predominantly unsecured investments in There are also appropriate processes and and only advanced for consideration and unquoted companies.
An increase in the procedures in place, at the Company and the approval of the Board once they have been concentration of the portfolio in a particular Investment Adviser, to minimise the risk of a through a complete review process within the economic sector or geography could increase breach of applicable regulations which could Investment Adviser, including review by an credit risk.
Likewise, large or unexpected affect the Companys compliance costs, its Investment Committee chaired by an increases in interest rates or availability of business, results of operations or financial authorised member of the 3i Group credit for refinancing borrowings could position.
Management Committee and comprising increase credit risk, particularly in companies senior investment executives.
24 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Risk and uncertainties continued The Company considers its own maximum At 31 March 2009, the Company had in Re-investment risk credit risk to be the carrying value of loans and place a 225 million credit facility which Where the Company realises an investment receivables, hedging contracts and cash and was undrawn and has remained undrawn and is seeking an alternative investment in cash equivalent amounts held, as credit risk throughout the year.
At the same date, which to re-invest the capital realised, suitable exposure is managed on an asset-specific Oystercatcher Luxco 2, a subsidiary, had investment opportunities may not always be basis by individual investment managers at the borrowings of 190 million drawn down in full available.
As a result, it may take a significant Investment Adviser.
Regular asset reviews and repayable in full in 2014.
Oystercatcher amount of time to re-invest the Companys provide an insight into the trading Luxco 2 also had an additional undrawn capital.
Although the Company has a policy of performance of individual assets and give an facility of 60 million.
The borrowings in active management of its cash and liquid early indication of increased credit risk.
Oystercatcher Luxco 2 are non-recourse investments portfolio to enhance returns to the Company.
pursuant to the Companys treasury The Companys remaining financial assets are management policy, the investments in which principally held in AAArated money market The borrowing arrangements of the portfolio the Company invests its cash are expected to funds, with the remainder in the form of short companies and their hedging arrangements generate returns that are substantially lower term deposits with banks of A or better are managed by the individual portfolio than the returns that the Company receives credit rating.
Counterparty limits are set and companies.
The Board and Investment from infrastructure investments.
There may closely monitored by the Board and regular Adviser monitor the level of debt, refinancing also be a high degree of variability between review of counterparties is undertaken by the risk and hedging levels in the portfolio the returns generated by different types of Investment Adviser and the Board.
investments forming part of the Companys Financing and interest rate risk Currency risk surplus cash and liquid investments portfolio.
Changes in interest rates can affect the A portion of the Companys underlying Liquidity risk Companys net income by increasing costs of investments are denominated in currencies The Company may face liquidity risks.
As the servicing debt drawn down by the Company other than sterling.
However, any dividends or Companys investments are in infrastructure to finance its investments.
Changes in the level distributions in respect of the ordinary shares businesses and assets, and will require a of interest rates can also affect, among other will generally be made in sterling and the long-term commitment of capital, they are things: market prices and net asset value of the relatively illiquid.
The Company can seek to ordinary shares of the Company will be i the cost and availability of debt financing manage liquidity needs by borrowing, but reported in sterling.
Changes in rates of and hence the Companys ability to achieve change to market sentiment may make credit exchange may have an adverse effect on the attractive rates of return on its investments: expensive or unavailable.
Liquidity may also be value of the Companys investments or the ii the Companys ability to invest when addressed by selling the more liquid assets in income received from these investments.
competing with other potential buyers who the Companys portfolio, but selling those A change in foreign currency exchange may be able to bid for an asset at a higher assets first may in some circumstances not be rates may adversely impact returns on the price due to a lower overall cost of capital: advantageous to the Company.
The Company Companys non-sterling denominated iii the debt financing capability of the anticipates that its committed finance facility investments.
infrastructure investments and businesses in should assist in mitigating some of the liquidity which the Company is invested: and iv the The Companys principal non-sterling currency risk and would raise long-term capital in rate of return on the Companys uninvested exposures are to the euro, US dollar and advance of investment needs.
The Board cash balances and other floating-rate interest indirectly, the Indian rupee and Singapore regularly analyses available cash resource bearing instruments.
dollars, but this may change from time to time.
The Company is not currently hedging all of its The Companys general financing strategy foreign currency denominated investments.
Operational risks seeks to reduce exposure to interest rate risk The Board will review, on a regular basis, by limiting borrowings to 50% of the gross The Company is exposed to a range of whether particular currency exposures should assets of the Company.
This exposure may operational risks which can arise from be hedged.
also be reduced by introducing a combination inadequate processes, people and systems or of a fixed and floating interest rate cost, Currency hedging is carried out to seek to from external factors affecting both the allowing continued flexibility but creating some provide protection for the level of sterling Company and its external service providers.
certainty on funding costs going forward.
In dividends the Company aims to pay on its Each service provider is responsible for addition, the Company may enter into hedging ordinary shares and to reduce the risk of identifying, assessing, controlling and reporting transactions such as derivative transactions, currency fluctuations and the volatility of operational risks.
This is supported by a including swaps or caps to reduce exposure to returns that may result from such currency framework of core values, standards and interest rate risk.
The Company may instead exposure resulting from the translation of controls operated by the Company.
decide that a certain level of interest rate risk non-sterling denominated assets.
This involves The Board considers reports on the would be acceptable for the Company, even if the use of foreign exchange swaps or foreign performance and operation of each key it could otherwise be hedged.
Interest rate exchange forward contracts and other similar service provider to gain comfort on the hedging transactions will only be undertaken transactions.
Currency hedging transactions operational risk mitigation.
The Company also for the purpose of efficient portfolio will only be undertaken for the purpose of has regular updates on legal, taxation and management and are not carried out for efficient portfolio management and are not regulatory matters from its advisers.
carried out for speculative purposes.
