Business review continued Highlights 04 Chairmans statement Principal risks and uncertainties 06 Chief Executives statement 10 Business review 10 Q&A on Admirals UK Car Insurance 12 Group review 13 UK Car Insurance 17 Price Comparison 19 Non-UK Car Insurance 22 Other Group Items 24 Principal risks and uncertainties 26 Corporate responsibility 32 Governance Risk Description and impact Mitigation 51 Financial statements As the UK business continues to steadily Admirals UK business has grown 1.
UK Car gain market share, there is a risk consistently since the business was Insurance that Admirals advantage both in loss launched in the early 1990s, and has erosion of and expense ratio terms will erode.
enjoyed regular outperformance against competitive Measured by the combined ratio, the market throughout advantage Admirals UK Car Insurance underwriting that time.
is typically around 25to 30 percentage points more profi table than the market.
The Directors are confi dent that the key strengths of the business which Various factors might contribute to contribute to the outperformance the erosion: targeted pricing and claims handling on the loss ratio side: lower cost a Flat or falling average premiums infrastructure, effi cient acquisition costs as Admirals portfolio tends and cost control on the expense ratio towards the market average side are sustainable.
expense ratio impact b A need to either cut rates, In addition, the Directors believe further or increase rates at a slower growth is achievable in the medium term rate than the market in order without undermining Admirals combined to continue growth loss and ratio advantage.
Further growth could expense ratio impacts bring benefi ts such as economies of c A deterioration in ability to scale and additional data points which price effectively are likely to be benefi cial for pricing.
The impact on the business would be a loss profi table underwriting result and lower return on capital employed.
2. International The Group has launched seven new The Groups approach to expansion is expansion operations outside the UK in the past cautious.
Our insurance businesses start risk of failure four years.
There is a risk that one or small and are all backed by proportional more of the new operations does not reinsurance support which provides become a sustainable long-term substantial mitigation against start-up business.
losses in the early years.
The impact on the Group could be New price comparison businesses also higher than planned losses and focus on modest starts with low set-up potentially closure costs and costs and relatively small initial media distraction to key management.
This tends to mean that the losses the new operations could incur are minimised whilst management assess the likelihood of the business succeeding.
The Directors are mindful of management stretch and monitor this risk on a regular basis.
At present the Board is confi dent there is a suitable management structure in place for the Groups international operations.
Admiral Group plc 24 Annual Report 2009 Risk Description and impact Mitigation There is a risk that over the medium Admiral earns ancillary profi ts from a 3.
Ancillary profi ts to long term, the level of ancillary profi t portfolio of products and seeks to potential earned per customer will diminish.
minimise reliance on any single item.
diminution This might be due to regulatory This would mitigate the impact of or legal changes, or customer or a regulatory change which affected market behaviour.
a particular product or income stream.
The impact on the Group would be The Group have risk management less profi t earned on the car insurance processes in place such that potential portfolios and a lower return on capital risks to ancillaries are identifi ed and employed.
monitored, providing management the time to respond appropriately to any such regulatory changes and minimise fi financial impacts where possible.
com operates in a highly The Directors believe Confused is a Comparison competitive market with four businesses strong business and is well positioned effects of attempting to increase their market to continue to defend its positive position continued share through aggressive media activity.
in the UK price comparison market.
competition There is a risk that despite Confused There is also scope to increase and currently enjoying a market leading improve Confuseds offering in products position, it will not succeed in beyond car insurance most notably maintaining this position or will have in money, which is a key element of to advertise even more aggressively to Confuseds strategy.
Even taking the above into account, The impact on the business would be there is obviously still uncertainty over reduced profi tability in the future.
the future profi t levels of the business, as it depends to a signifi cant extent on the actions of Confuseds competitors.
Risk sharing Admiral uses proportional co-insurance Admiral has enjoyed a long-term structures and reinsurance across its car insurance relationship with one of the worlds businesses to reduce its own capital strongest reinsurers, Munich Re, needs and increase return on the capital which has supported Admiral since it does hold and to mitigate the cost 2000.
The Group also has a strong and risk of establishing new operations.
relationship with other major reinsurers, including Hannover Re and Swiss Re.
There is a risk that such support will not be available in the future if the results of Admiral has long-term reinsurance either the UK business or one or more contracts in place and in early 2010, of the international operations are not signifi cant extensions to the existing satisfactory.
contracts for the UK, Spain and Italy were agreed.
At the same time, new The impact on the Group would be long-term contracts were signed with the need to raise additional capital to Munich Re and Hannover Re to support support the underwriting.
This could the new US business.
be in the form of equity either reduced dividends or new equity or debt.
Admiral has relationships with a number of reinsurers reducing reliance on an individual reinsurer.
Admiral Group plc 25 Annual Report 2009
