30 Directors Report: Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties This section provides a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on BG Groups strategy, performance, results, financial or trading condition and or reputation.
BG Groups businesses around the world are successful planning, execution and operation a Group level by the relevant Group technical and professional functions and by the Groups exposed to a number of risks and uncertainties, of various development and expansion projects.
each of which could potentially have a executive sub-committees such as the Group Project delivery also depends on BG Group Performance Committee and the Energy material adverse effect on the Groups aligning its objectives with those of host strategy, performance, results, financial Trading and Credit Risk Committee.
governments, joint venture partners and other or trading condition and or reputation.
key stakeholders to minimise the potential for The upheaval in global markets since 2008 has underlined the importance of ensuring that It is important to note that: political and partner risk to undermine business plans.
In that regard, it is relevant that the business strategy takes appropriate account the summary of principal risks and Groups overall geopolitical risk exposure has of macro-economic risks as well as operational uncertainties, set out below, is not improved in recent years as a consequence of risks.
The GEC undertakes a review of strategic presented in order of potential magnitude, portfolio restructuring, particularly the rapid risks on an annual basis, and this forms a key materiality or probability of occurrence: growth of the Groups material business part of the Boards annual strategy review.
interests in Australia, Brazil and the USA.
not all of these risks and uncertainties Further detail on the Boards review of are within BG Groups control: These and other principal risks and BG Groups strategy can be found on page 43. uncertainties are discussed in more detail while the Group has developed processes Risk information is shared across the on pages 31 to 33. for identifying and managing risk, it is not organisation to ensure that the Groups possible to be certain that those processes Risk management business units are aware of the wider risk will be successful in fully mitigating all environment when assessing the challenges, BG Groups ability to protect and grow relevant risks.
These processes provide shareholder value depends on the successful risks and uncertainties in their own areas reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance of responsibility.
delivery of the Groups business objectives.
and are designed to manage, rather than In turn, this depends on the extent to which Further details of the Boards assessment eliminate, risk: and the Group is effective in identifying, assessing of the effectiveness of BG Groups internal and managing risk across the business.
the Group may also be affected adversely control environment, including the controls by other risks and uncertainties besides the which contribute to the identication or BG Group has established a formal principal risks and uncertainties listed here.
Group-wide Business Risk Management mitigation of risk, can be found on page 49.
Process BRMP which is designed to ensure Shareholders should consider the principal that the Group actively considers and risks and uncertainties described in this manages internal and external risks in all section in conjunction with the Legal Notice locations and at all levels of the organisation.
The BRMP is designed to facilitate the The Groups evolving risk prole systematic and continuous identication, In common with all companies, BG Groups analysis, mitigation, monitoring and risk prole is determined by a combination communication of those risks which could of the Groups own strategy and actions, threaten the Groups ability to deliver its together with the effects of changes to the objectives.
The BRMP is a mandatory internal external business environment within which control across BG Group.
Further details of it operates.
As explained on page 15, BG Group the Groups Internal Control Framework, expects the challenging global market and the assurance processes that have been conditions of 2009 to continue through 2010. designed to ensure the Group operates Although some countries are demonstrating within an effective control environment, a return to economic growth, there remains can be found on page 48. the risk of a double dip global recession The Audit Committee oversees the Groups which could cause a prolonged period of risk management framework and the reduced demand for gas and oil in some Governance Committee assesses the key markets and an associated period of effectiveness of the risk processes that depressed commodity prices.
The Group Executive Committee GEC allocates accountability Delivery of the growth potential from the portfolio outlined on page 15 will depend between its members for the identication and management of risks across the Group.
to a significant extent upon the successful discovery, appraisal and development of The management of specic risks is a line responsibility, however, risks are monitored at reserves and resources, together with the www.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 31 Commodity prices Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary The Groups sensitivity to oil prices is set to increase due to the BG Groups cash ows and profitability are sensitive to natural gas, crude oil and liqueed natural gas LNG prices and related price contribution of significant amounts of oil-related revenue, notably from Brazil.
However, the Groups portfolio also includes a range of spreads which are dependent on a number of factors that have an impact on world supply and demand.
The Groups exposure to long-term gas contracts that are not directly or immediately linked to short-term changes in commodity prices.
Additionally, some LNG commodity prices also varies according to a number of other factors, including the mix of production and sales.
The Group estimates that, purchase contracts contain provisions under which the gas suppliers other factors being constant, a $1.00 rise or fall in oil prices would share price risk with BG Group.
The Group does not, as a matter of increase or decrease operating profit in the Groups Exploration and course, hedge all commodity prices, but may hedge certain LNG Production E&P business in 2010 by approximately $90 million to contracts and other revenue streams from time to time.
its gas supply portfolio, the Group undertakes commodity hedging and trading activities, including the use of natural gas futures contracts, Rapid movement in commodity prices has led to sales prices becoming financial and physical forward-based contracts and swap contracts.
disconnected from costs in recent years, especially as falls in industry Projects are screened against a wide range of external sensitivities, costs for materials, goods and services from industry suppliers and including benchmark commodity prices.
manufacturers can lag behind falls in commodity prices.
This puts pressure on investment and project economics that depend in part upon the degree and timing of commitments to particular cost structures.
Operational performance Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary BG Groups production volumes and therefore revenues are dependent The Group has mandatory policies and standards governing all aspects on the continued operational performance of its producing assets.
The of operation, including HSSE and asset integrity.
These are supported Groups producing assets are subject to a number of operational risks by assurance processes which are supervised by the Groups technical including: reduced availability of those assets due to planned activities functions and are applied globally.
such as maintenance or shutdowns: unplanned outages which may, for example, be due to equipment or human failure: asset integrity and health, safety, security and environmental HSSE incidents: adverse reserves recovery from the eld: the performance of joint venture partners: the performance of our contractors: and exposure to natural hazards, such as extreme weather events.
Reserves development and project delivery Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Development planning and project delivery are subject to internal The Groups ability to deliver production growth could be affected by a number of factors, including: reservoir quality and performance: assurance processes to optimise designs and minimise risk.
Due diligence prior to the final investment decision includes scrutiny of inaccurate interpretation of received data: unexpected drilling conditions or costs: rig availability: or inadequate human or technical feasibility studies, concept selection and denition, project planning, commercialisation options and project economics.
During the pre-sanction phase, projects are subject to a number of sub-surface, engineering, stakeholder, financial, macroscreened against a wide range of external sensitivities, including stakeholder issues such as issues relating to partner alignment, economic, commercial, legal and regulatory risks.
Principal risks prior to sanction include failure to fully appreciate sub-surface, project commodity prices and input costs.
Failure to select the most suitable The Group has an ongoing programme focused on ensuring optimal development concept, based on a full lifecycle understanding of the project management, clear accountabilities for delivery and the best project, can expose projects to additional risk and cost.
Subsequent possible deployment of project management capability across the delivery of projects may be subject to cost and time overruns: HSSE portfolio.
Performance is assured against Group-wide mandatory risks: technical, commercial, legal or regulatory compliance failures: technical standards and strict capital and cost discipline is applied to equipment shortages: the availability, competence and capability of protect value.
The Group seeks to ensure that effective stakeholder human resources and contractors: unscheduled outages: mechanical alignment enables an adequate degree of control during project and technical difficulties: and gas pipeline system constraints.
In many construction and operation.
cases, the cause of delay or cost overrun in project implementation can be the misalignment of partner objectives.
Political factors can also often be a significant risk to project delivery.
The Groups move into unconventional gas such as shale and coal seam gas, operating in deep water carbonate reservoirs, and the inherent complexity of some projects, given their scale and the number and range of stakeholders, all present further challenges to successful project delivery.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 32 Directors Report: Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Political context and stakeholder relationships Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary BG Group faces a range of political risks.
For instance, governments The commitments in BG Groups Business Principles form the basis may alter scal or other terms governing oil and gas industry of the Groups efforts to address these issues and are summarised operations, especially where they face financial pressures, or may on pages 34 to 37 and in the Sustainability Report, published at act or fail to act in a way which delays project schedules or increases www.
com sustainability costs, thus destroying value.
In addition, BG Group needs to work Under those commitments, BG Group seeks to: together with governments and national oil companies in order to apply the highest standards of conduct to all of its activities: secure access to new resources and ensure the successful monetisation set safety as an overriding priority at all times: of existing resources.
In such cases, political considerations can act as a model employer: inuence decision making.
work closely with local communities: and Similarly, BG Group will be exposed to risk if it does not recognise, and follow international best practice on environmental issues.
take account of, the interests of the communities in the areas where it From this starting point, BG Group works to ensure that governments operates.
BG Groups operations will only be sustainable and successful and national oil companies see it as a partner of choice.
The Group over the long term if its local stakeholders see benefit from them and seeks to understand their priorities and interests and seek alignment support the Groups presence.
with them wherever possible, while making it clear that contract sanctity and stability are essential to attract and underpin direct foreign investment.
BG Group also aims to ensure that its portfolio is appropriately diversied.
In that respect, expansion in Australia, Brazil and the USA, has changed positively the overall balance of political risk.
Interest rate and liquidity risk Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary BG Groups nancing costs may be affected by interest rate volatility.
The Groups interest rate management policy requires that borrowings The Group is also exposed to liquidity risks, including risks associated are substantially oating rate.
Exceptions from this policy require with renancing borrowings as they mature, the risk that borrowing approval from the Groups Finance Committee.
The Group maintains facilities are not available to meet cash requirements and the risk that adequate committed borrowing facilities and holds its financial assets financial assets cannot readily be converted to cash without loss of primarily in short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily value.
Failure to manage nancing risks could have a material impact convertible to known amounts of cash.
The Group imposes limits on on the Groups cash ow, balance sheet and financial position.
the amount of borrowings that mature within any specic period.
Exchange rates Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary BG Groups financial results up to and including the results for the The Group mitigates its exposure to certain currencies other than financial year ended 31 December 2009 have been reported in Pounds the US Dollar primarily Pounds Sterling, the Brazilian Real and Sterling.
A significant majority of the Groups business activity is the Australian Dollar by denominating a portion of its after-swap conducted in US Dollars, and the Group holds substantial US Dollarborrowings in such currencies, with the balance denominated in denominated assets, as well as other non-Sterling assets and liabilities.
The Group hedges certain expected cash ows into Consequently, the Groups results and financial position were affected US Dollars.
Currency hedging is also undertaken to mitigate currency by exchange rate uctuations.
exposure in certain cross-border transactions.
From 1 January 2010, the Group will report its financial results in US Dollars.
As a result of business activities, and asset and liability positions, conducted or held in other currencies, the Groups results and financial position will continue to be affected by exchange rate uctuations.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 33 Credit Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary The challenging credit environment witnessed during the past Credit exposure risk is monitored centrally for individual transactions two years has highlighted the importance of managing credit risk.
including concentration risk and the appropriateness of limits.
The BG Groups exposure to credit risk takes the form of a loss that would Group considers each counterpartys including sovereign entities, be recognised if counterparties including sovereign entities failed, or financial and credit condition prior to entering into commercial were unable, to meet their payment or performance obligations.
These contracts, trading sales agreements, swaps, futures and options risks may arise in all forms of commercial agreements and in certain contracts.
The Group may also seek contractual or other forms of agreements relating to amounts owed for physical product sales, the protection or mitigation, including cash collateral, letters of credit, use of derivative instruments, and the investment of surplus cash security over assets or parent company guarantees.
The Group is also exposed to political and economic risk transactions are undertaken with a single counterparty or group events that exacerbate country risk, which may cause non-payment of related counterparties, the Group may enter into a netting of foreign currency obligations to BG Group by governments or arrangement.
For physical commodity trading, the Group seeks to government-owned entities, or otherwise impact successful project put in place bespoke master netting agreements or standard delivery and implementation.
The impact of credit issues could also arrangements appropriate to the local market.
lead to the failure of companies in the sector, potentially including partners, contractors and suppliers.
Health, Safety, Security and Environment HSSE Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Upstream production of hydrocarbons, and the management of them Safety and asset integrity are overriding priorities for the Group.
The midstream, and downstream, present a number of HSSE risks and the Group designs and operates management systems and tools to help it inherent potential for major accidents or incidents.
These include: manage risks in these areas.
The Groups mandatory HSSE and Asset asset integrity failure, leading to a loss of containment of hydrocarbons Integrity Standards are regularly reviewed to ensure they are in line and other hazardous materials: personal health and safety: natural with industry best practice, and are embedded in the organisation disasters and pandemics: and breaches of security.
The Group often through extensive training backed up by regular audits and operates in harsh and remote working environments.
Contractor management is recognised as an essential or incidents and or the failure to manage these risks could result in part of good safety management and the Group seeks to ensure that injury or loss of life, damage to the environment, or loss of certain its worldwide contractor community understands and applies the facilities with an associated loss or deferment of production and Groups safety culture and processes in their own operations.
Access to gas and oil resources may be affected by details of the Groups approach to HSSE are set out in The way we developments in policies intended to protect local habitats.
Climate change Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Policies and initiatives at national and international level to address Public policy responses to climate change continue to evolve, and the climate change are likely to affect business conditions and demand for Group closely monitors developments in this area.
Group strategy takes various types of energy in the medium to long-term.
Worldwide policy account of the fact that the energy industry will necessarily play a role and regulatory actions are driving targeted reductions in greenhouse in the solution to climate change and that natural gas has a recognised gas GHG emissions which will in turn inuence the future of the contribution to make.
Many governments are seeking increased natural energy industry.
Policy approaches that promote the usage of gas utilisation as a lower-carbon alternative to coal or oil within the alternative energy sources such as renewables, biofuels, hydro-electric context of their broader climate change mitigation strategies.
The power and nuclear power may have an impact on BG Groups ability Group seeks to leverage its core competence across the gas chain to to maintain its position in key markets.
Additionally, new regulatory capitalise on the opportunity gas offers in reducing global GHG regimes intended to establish emissions trading schemes could alter emissions.
Assessments of physical and economic risks, reviews of hydrocarbon production economics.
scenarios for future uses of energy as well as the current and future policy environment, all play a part in our response to climate change.
The Group actively identies and carries out projects to minimise GHG emissions across its existing operations and in new developments, including applying Best Available Techniques to help meet a Group target of a one million tonne reduction in emissions compared to a no-action base case between 2007 and 2012.
All new developments take into account national and international initiatives to reduce GHG emissions, including the opportunity to participate in applicable carbon-emissions trading schemes.
Further details of the Groups approach to climate change are set out in the BG Group Sustainability Report, available online at www.
com sustainability BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
