24 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Risk Factors Alliance Trust has in place a risk management Alliance Trust has in place a framework designed to ensure that the risks inherent within the business are adequately risk management framework assessed and monitored.
No business is without risk.
This section explains our risk management designed to ensure that the structure and highlights the main risks that we believe could impact on the performance risks inherent within the of the business.
business are adequately Risk Management Structure assessed and monitored.
The Risk Management Committee comprises the Executive Director responsible for Risk, the Head of Risk and various other senior managers representing legal, investment, compliance, group projects, as well as representatives of Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Asset Management.
The risk management framework categorises risk under four broad headings: investment risk, operational risk, business risk and liquidity risk.
Investment Risk This risk, which includes credit risk, concerns mainly the decisions being taken over the investment of funds in different asset classes, and within the different portfolios.
During 2008 the Board created the Asset Allocation Committee to replace the Asset, Liability and Income Committee.
The purpose of the Committee is to manage the allocation of the capital of the Company between and among the asset classes approved by the Board and within the risk parameters, policies and other limits and guidelines set by the Board from time to time and with a view to the income derived from the Companys assets.
The committees responsibilities include: asset allocation, cash and currency management, risk management and allocation of the capital of the Company to ensure adherence to the dividend policy set by the Board.
Individual managers are responsible for assessing the risks associated with each investment that they make.
A Board approved derivatives policy is in place which formulates the basis under which these financial instruments can be used.
Derivatives may be used by the Company to reduce the potential of loss or to enhance our ability to change investments quickly.
The use of such investments is centrally controlled.
indd 24 20 4 09 12:51:38 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 25 Gearing risk also falls under this category.
year exposed a number of weaknesses in the The risk here is that the value of investments market which impacted on the ability of some made with money which is borrowed does not companies to obtain credit.
The Company increase sufficiently to cover the borrowing and continues to be able to secure funding when interest costs resulting in a loss.
The Company required from major banks at competitive rates.
intends only to use gearing tactically where it Regulated Subsidiaries identifies opportunities which will provide a return, whilst at the same time managing the The foregoing risks also apply to our regulated risk.
The level of gearing which may be used subsidiaries.
is set by the Board and the use of gearing is Within Alliance Trust Savings we have reviewed decided by the Asset Allocation Committee.
our operating processes and introduced initiatives to enhance the effectiveness of our operations.
Operational Risk The programme to set up and launch Alliance This is the risk of inadequate or failed Trust Asset Management was undertaken processes or systems.
The main potential risk within the project management framework.
here is a failure of our systems for holding or administering investments.
Further information on financial instruments and risk as required by IFRS7 can be found on We have introduced enhanced management pages 80 to 85 of this Report and Accounts.
and oversight within investments, including updates to the investment management process and associated standards and procedures.
Our project framework ensures that we focus activity on those areas identified as presenting our greatest potential risk exposure.
We look actively at data security and in the course of the year introduced a new Information Security policy.
Business Risk This risk category includes external factors such as changes in the political, economic and regulatory environment as well as the risks arising from our businesses and products, strategic acquisitions or business diversification.
The effect of legislation on the operation of our financial services subsidiaries is high.
We have a number of specialist staff to ensure compliance with the legal and regulatory strictures affecting our operations.
Liquidity Risk This risk category relates to the level of liquid funds, whether in cash or easily realisable assets, that we keep to satisfy obligations for payments that may arise.
Our cash position is monitored daily across the organisation with surplus funds invested to earn interest.
The economic turbulence in the course of the report front amends.
