1 Key information 1.1 Our business We are the worlds largest diversified natural resources company.
Our corporate objective is to create long-term value for shareholders through the discovery, development and conversion of natural resources, and the provision of innovative customer and market-focused solutions.
We pursue this objective through our unchanged strategy of investing in tier one assets that are large, low-cost and long-life to provide a balanced portfolio of export-oriented commodities: steelmaking products iron ore, metallurgical coal, manganese non-ferrous products copper, aluminium, nickel, diamonds energy products petroleum, liquefied natural gas LNG, energy coal, uranium.
We continue to invest in the future and have a deep inventory of growth assets.
Our operations and investments are designed to ensure the Group remains stable in the long term and responsive to market volatility in the short term.
The Group is headquartered in Melbourne, Australia, and consists As at 30 June 2009, we had a market capitalisation of of the BHP Billiton Limited Group and the BHP Billiton Plc Group approximately US$144 billion.
For the year ended 30 June 2009, as a combined enterprise, following the completion of the Dual we reported net operating cash flow of US$18.9 billion, net profit Listed Company DLC merger in June 2001.
BHP Billiton Limited attributable to shareholders of US$5.9 billion and revenue of and BHP Billiton Plc have each retained their separate corporate US$50.2 billion.
We have approximately 99,000 employees identities and maintained their separate stock exchange listings, and contractors working in more than 100 operations in over but they are operated and managed as if they are a single unified 25 countries.
economic entity, with their boards and senior executive We operate nine businesses, called Customer Sector Groups management comprising the same people.
CSGs, which are aligned with the commodities we extract BHP Billiton Limited has a primary listing on the Australian and market: Securities Exchange ASX in Australia.
It has secondary listings Petroleum on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in Germany and the Swiss Stock Aluminium Exchange in Switzerland and has notified its intention to delist Base Metals from both these exchanges.
These delistings are expected to be Diamonds and Specialty Products completed in 2010.
BHP Billiton Plc has a primary listing on the Stainless Steel Materials London Stock Exchange LSE in the UK and a secondary listing Iron Ore on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in South Africa.
In addition, BHP Billiton Limited American Depositary Receipts ADRs and Manganese BHP Billiton Plc ADRs trade on the New York Stock Exchange Metallurgical Coal NYSE in the US.
Energy Coal BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2009 - 5 1 Key information continued Our program of Board renewal continued this year.
David Jenkins, 1.2 Chairmans Review after nine years on the Board, will retire after the Annual General By any measure, this has been an extraordinary year.
David has made an outstanding contribution to the work of the Board: and on your behalf, I would like to thank The global financial crisis has created the worst business David and wish him well for the future.
environment the world has faced in more than 60 years.
World economic activity contracted dramatically and commodity prices We also appointed Wayne Murdy as a non-executive Director.
Accompanying this, volatility has been high and should Waynes experience will be invaluable to your Board given his remain for the immediate future.
While the global economy is background as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Newmont showing signs of stabilising, the large developed economies are Mining Corporation and 30 years experience in the mining and not expected to show real growth until at least the end of 2010. petroleum industries.
BHP Billitons strategy has served us well during these volatile We remain committed to achieving the highest level of governance times.
Since the merger of BHP and Billiton in 2001, we have and continue to believe that there is a fundamental link between focused on a few key fundamentals.
These include owning and high-quality governance and the creation of shareholder value.
operating large, low-cost, long-life tier one assets: a commitment We also recognise that governance is not just a matter for the to a solid A credit rating: a deep inventory of growth projects: Board, but that a good governance culture must be fostered and working hard to be leaders in safety, environmental throughout the Group.
Undoubtedly, the past year has been difficult.
The economic landscape has changed and organisations have had to adjust to While low commodity prices and less demand for our products meet these unprecedented economic challenges.
In many sectors led to a fall in profits, our resolute focus on our long-term strategy of the economy we have witnessed quite dramatic falls in demand, delivered record operating cash flow of almost US$19 billion, profit and there have been large cutbacks in production across the from operations, excluding exceptional items, of US$18.2 billion, commodities sector.
We were not immune from this.
We reduced and margins on this profit of more than 40 per cent.
Dividends were increased by 17.1 per cent to 82 US cents per share.
We have production levels from many of our operations in response to the lower global commodities demand and in some instances also enviable balance sheet strength.
At 30 June 2009, gearing was made difficult decisions to indefinitely suspend or close operations.
12.1 per cent and we have an A credit rating with significant funding capacity.
Looking ahead, economies around the world are responding to government-driven economic stimulus packages, the impact Despite producing strong operating and financial performance of which is difficult to measure: and consequently, there remains during a challenging year, our safety performance was simply a level of uncertainty about the rate of economic growth over unacceptable.
This year, we had seven fatalities.
The death of a the short term.
Having said that, there is evidence in the US, UK, family member at work has a devastating and long-lasting impact Europe and Australia of increasing stability in financial systems not only on the immediate family, but also on a wide community and economies.
of relatives, friends and work colleagues.
The Board has reinforced its emphasis on management creating a workplace free of injury.
China, which has been the major source of demand for commodities in 2009, is showing early signs of improvement, In environmental management, the immediate issue facing providing strong support for short-term economic growth.
the world is climate change.
BHP Billiton shares the view that mainstream science is correct in drawing attention to the high risks Over the longer term, we believe that emerging economies such associated with unmitigated climate change.
However, we also as China and India will contribute the majority of world economic believe that the problem is solvable and strongly support a global growth as they continue to industrialise, which will see demand regime that is endorsed by both developed and major developing for commodities continue to grow.
countries and provides the clarity and stability necessary to BHP Billiton maintains its unique position in the resources allow investment in carbon abatement activities to occur.
We are able to generate above average returns in this determined to play our part and see business leadership as part part of the cycle, continue to invest in growth and are well-placed of our role in achieving low carbon growth.
To this end, we support to take advantage of any upturn.
key initiatives like the establishment of binding commitments Finally, this will be my last report to you as Chairman.
for all developed and major developing countries.
Jac Nasser will succeed me when I retire.
It is your Directors We remain committed to prudently investing for the future.
view that the choice of the Chairman is the responsibility of the This is reflected in the agreement we signed with Rio Tinto Board.
This is why, over the past 18 months, the Board itself has in June this year to create an iron ore production joint venture conducted the succession process for the new Chairman and when in Western Australia.
This joint venture represents a significant, the Board met, John Buchanan, the Senior Independent Director strategic investment for the Group that provides us with the for BHP Billiton Plc, chaired the meetings.
Jac has outstanding skills opportunity to capture significant synergies that can only come and experience and will be an excellent Chairman.
To ensure an through this unique partnership.
The agreement is non-binding orderly transition, the Board has asked me to stand for re-election and pre-conditions for its formation include regulatory, relevant at the upcoming Annual General Meetings, although I will not governmental and shareholder approvals from both Rio Tinto serve a full term and expect to retire from the Board in early 2010. and BHP Billiton shareholders.
I want to acknowledge and sincerely thank you, our shareholders, Our ability to fund opportunities like these and the Groups for your support over the 13 years I have been on the BHP Billiton consistent, solid financial performance during this period Board and my 10 years as Chairman.
It has always been my is testament to the ability of Marius Kloppers and his team.
underpinning principle to respect shareholders as the owners Over the past five years, we have delivered Total Shareholder of the Company, as it is to you that I am accountable for the 1 Returns of 220 per cent, outperforming the FTSE 100, ASX 100 governance and performance of BHP Billiton.
It has been an and our peers.
There are very few companies in any sector with outstanding highlight in my life and an extraordinary privilege such solid financial and operating strength.
Clearly, as a Board, we have a responsibility to shareholders to ensure we attract, develop and retain the talented people we need to run our business.
The way we reward and recognise those people is an important part of how we do this.
Our reward and recognition arrangements are set out in the Remuneration Don Argus Report.
From your Boards point of view, the critical issue is that shareholders have the ability to fully understand remuneration Chairman arrangements, to monitor them and to express their opinion on 1 Weighted three month average US$ Total Shareholder Returns TSR of their value.
Aligning executive remuneration with shareholder BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
TSR reflects the changes in share value creation is fundamental.
price plus dividends over the period.
6 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2009 The strong cash flow from our existing portfolio along with low 1.3 Chief Executive Officers Report levels of financial gearing, enabled us to continue with our stated The 2009 financial year was an interesting one as it was divided strategy of investing in our business throughout the cycle, with into distinct periods the first with rapid growth in demand another four projects constituting US$5.9 billion of investment for products at record prices, and the second in which a global being approved during the year.
Together with previously fide-stocking cycle, following the global financial crisis, resulted approved projects it brings our pipeline of projects in execution in diminished demand and lower prices.
We intend to invest approximately US$10 billion in capital and exploration expenditure in FY2010.
With aggressive growth plans following the preceding years record world economic growth in our industry, many of our Additionally, our strong cash flow and low gearing enabled peers and other companies were forced to make an about-turn us to contemplate other non-organic growth opportunities.
in strategy in response to the global economic downturn.
In this regard, we are very pleased with the recent non-binding In many cases, long-term value was sacrificed as a result agreement with Rio Tinto to combine our iron ore businesses of short-term pressures.
in Western Australia in a 50-50 owned production joint venture.
This joint venture will see us invest a further US$5.8 billion in While the shift in demand and prices also presented challenges this business beyond the already sanctioned projects.
for BHP Billiton, our long-standing strategy of focusing on a diversified portfolio of tier one, low-cost, long-life assets, allowed Looking ahead us to continue to focus on the long-term creation of value, in line with our corporate objective.
The major economies are starting to rebuild their inventories in sequence, led by an early recovery in China: and we may Safety see a more predictable demand scenario for our products in the coming financial year.
However, we do not expect a return Our workforce contains many talented people who help make this to the same buoyant demand conditions that prevailed before Group what it is today: a premier global organisation.
Given this, the global financial crisis, or a return to record global growth I am personally deeply saddened to report that this year seven rates within our forecasting horizon.
deaths occurred at our operations.
Any injury is unacceptable and these fatalities highlight the need to do more as an organisation Given that China represents approximately 20 per cent of to protect the health and safety of our people.
To this end, BHP Billitons revenue, and up to 50 per cent of the worlds raw we have undertaken a variety of measures, which have included material consumption, it merits additional comment.
Chinas reviews of our management procedures and safety systems.
reduction of lending controls in November 2008 has facilitated an increase in real estate and mortgage lending, which in Encouragingly, seven of our Customer Sector Groups reported turn has supported an increase in construction and increased improvements in Total Recordable Injury Frequency performance demand for products we supply.
Also, the infrastructure stimulus ranging from seven to 44 per cent.
Twenty-four BHP Billiton sites measures announced to improve Chinas rail, road and air completed 12 months of operations without a Lost Time Injury.
transport links will, in due course, create a need for raw materials.
In aggregate, this amounts to more than 23 million hours of Therefore, we expect the resource intensive nature of Chinese work without a Lost Time Injury.
Our challenge is to replicate growth to substantially drive global raw materials consumption.
this performance throughout our business and we must remain The investment plans that I detailed earlier will continue to supply diligent in continuing our work towards zero workplace injuries.
product to meet this demand.
Managing through the cycle On a final note, I wish to thank all of BHP Billitons employees I have already stated that during the year, we stayed true and contractors for their continued commitment, which has to our strategy of focusing on long-term value creation.
enabled the Group to deliver value in very challenging times.
Operationally, however, we continued to seek ways that allow In summary, our Group remains in an enviable position in us to be responsive in the short term.
For example, very early its industry.
Our low gearing, strong cash flow and portfolio on in the global financial crisis and consistent with the way of investment options positions us well to create value from we have always managed our business, we reiterated our the long-term demand for our commodities.
commitment to taking swift action in any operation that was cash negative and set to remain so, or for which we did not have sufficient customers for the particular product.
We acted quickly to curtail production across our metallurgical Marius Kloppers coal, manganese, nickel and iron ore pellet operations.
Chief Executive Officer Disappointingly, this slowdown in demand, coupled with the dramatic fall in nickel prices, led to the indefinite suspension of our Ravensthorpe operation in Western Australia.
I can assure you that these decisions were carefully considered and that we are ever mindful of the effects on everyone involved.
While difficult decisions to reduce staff numbers were taken in some areas, we have continued to implement programs that work to attract and retain skilled people.
For example, in May we announced the introduction of uniform, minimum paid parental leave benefits across our operations.
The introduction of this initiative actively encourages broad inclusion in the workplace, which we believe will ultimately give us a strong competitive edge.
