Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Risk management Managing risk for reward 2009 was a period of investment where we have seen our risk management capability grow.
Preparations for Solvency II have given an added impetus to develop our risk management framework to the next level.
James Illingworth Chief Risk Offi cer Key performance indicators Business focus C Claims rati laims ratio o Amlin recognises that delivery of shareholder value comes from actively seeking and taking risk, while managing that risk within acceptable bounds.
We are focused on maintaining and developing a sustainable enterprise risk management process as an integral part of our business model, supporting 2008: 55 2008: 55% % business planning and capital management.
Lar Larg gest RD est RDS S v risk appetit v risk appetite e We endeavour to provide transparency to stakeholders on risk strategy, its implementation and review.
2008: 124 2008: 124% % 2009 highlights Specifi c risk appetite measures defi ned for each category of risk.
New risk assessment process implemented.
Divisional and Group risk reporting established.
Market risk modelling capability signifi cantly enhanced.
2010 priorities Pass all Solvency II pre-application processes.
Fully establish the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment process including integration with business planning.
Ensure ACI is fully integrated with Group risk management framework.
Embed new risk assessment methodology across Group.
Complete review of technical pricing and expected loss cost.
Shareholder information 201 Our risk management policy clearly more clearly articulated and granular The Board and the Audit Committee articulates the importance given to risk tolerances agreed by the Board receive quarterly monitoring reports active management of risk within the foreach category of risk: and highlighting the status of each key risk Group.
Risk is managed in accordance improved reporting of critical risk relative relative to approved tolerances using with Amlins risk policy and this, together to tolerances.
bothdeterministic and stochastic with the Groups overall appetite and modelling techniques.
An agreed The risk review process is built bottom tolerances, is set by the Amlin Board.
procedure for risk alerts informs up, with each business unit and support Key risk tolerances are clear for each management if a risk is close to function completing a risk assessment division and clear accountabilities exist approaching its tolerance level.
which measures current and emerging for managing each type of risk within Ifatanystage a risk breaches the risks.
The objective of the process is to each division and Group function.
prescribed tolerance, the Board and capture and quantify risk, taking account theAudit Committee will be informed of the efficacy of controls in each business The Risk Assessment and Monitoring andappropriate remedial action will unit and function.
Based on this process department RAM is responsible for the betaken tobring the risk within RAM produces an aggregated view of the evaluation, analysis and monitoring of the agreedlevels.
risk for the group as a whole.
major risks faced by the business and for reporting the status of risks to executive For example, in January 2009 remedial With the international expansion of the management, the Audit Committee and action was taken to bring our Japanese Group and our desire to develop our theBoard.
earthquake risk back to within appetite, risk management in preparation for as the depreciation of the Yen relative to Solvency II we continued to invest in our Risk management framework Sterling by 30% in the final three months risk expertise during the year.
In August of 2008 had materially increased the 2009, a new Head of Group Risk was downside to our balance sheet from such Policy appointed, charged with developing the an event.
Most Japanese business renews Group Risk function to embed Amlins new on 1st April and we therefore purchased risk management framework across the Risk appetite & tolerances short term loss warranties to protect our business.
Two further risk professionals position until the inwards risks could be were recruited in January 2010.
We also Ownership & accountabilities adjusted at the next renewal.
continued to strengthen the Group Actuarial team, which plays a key role in modelling Principal risks and uncertainties our underwriting and investment risk.
Our key risk categories are closely aligned to those laid down by the Financial Risk appetite Services Authority FSA and Solvency A key deliverable for 2009 was to develop II regulations.
Our principal risks and granular definitions of risk appetite for each mitigation strategies are summarised category of risk.
Appetites for most key risks inthetable on page 49. were reviewed and approved by the Board in May 2009.
The detailed risk disclosures for Risk assessment process underwriting credit, market and liquidity The appetites articulate the risk-bearing riskare set out in detail starting on page capacity of the Group, capturing the key 132 of the financial statements.
dimensions of the Groups risk appetite philosophy, a clear risk appetite statement Modelling and exposure for each risk category and prescribed management tolerances for these categories.
For Amlin aims to deliver an attractive example, for underwriting risk, Amlins cross-cycle return on capital through the appetite statement sets out our attitude maintenance of a diversified portfolio of tocatastrophe risk business, and the business combined with excellent capital During 2009 significant progress was tolerances specify financial limits management.
Diversification of business made in developing risk governance basedonboth deterministic and across different business lines and arrangements to support a larger Group stochasticmodelling.
geographies provides a strong balance with multiple operating locations and the Group risk appetite is centred on four of catastrophe versus non-catastrophe necessary preparations for Solvency II.
dimensions, providing the setting for the exposures and reduces the risk of any This involved: appetite and tolerances for individual one event, or series of events, causing risk areas.
These are shown in the unacceptable impairment to the Groups increasing the consistency of risk language tableoverleaf.
and definitions across the Group: 47 e s s t r o p e R I d e n t i f y e s n o p s e R Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Risk management continued Our Dynamic Financial Analysis DFA Risk assessment and reporting structure model, which has been progressively Amlin plc Board developed since 2001, is able to provide Strategy setting a holistic view of the probability of Ultimate sign-off outcomes, in terms of expected profi tability, for the Group and for each regulated entity.
Audit Committee Independent review As our most extreme risks are signifi cant catastrophes, or a multitude of catastrophes in any one period, we are Cross-functional challenge Group Executive Management able to monitor the probability of Executive challenge and approval impairment to the balance sheet relative Cross-functional challenge Risk Advisory Committee to the risk tolerances set by the Amlin plc Board.
This is a dynamic equation as the Aggregation, review Group Risk and conclusions changes in our exposures and levels of inwards pricing affect the risk tolerances Operating Division Leadership which are set specifi cally for catastrophe Facilitation Local management risk.
For example, as expected margins challenge and approval increase, the Group is able to expand its Challenge and quality review Group Risk catastrophe risk tolerances.
Conversely, Risk Coordinator Facilitation as profi t potential decreases, tolerances are reduced.
Local Risk Managers This requires a good understanding of Local risk assessment technical pricing and the expected loss Reporting process cost of policies which are underwritten.
Governance accountability discharged by the Group and local management During 2009 our actuaries initiated a Advisory activities supporting the effective communication of risk management information thorough review of these areas.
RAM regularly monitors the adequacy of pricing in each class of business as well as Appetite and tolerance for risk areas price movements so that expected risk Dimension Context Example risk areas tolerances and or the acceptance of risk can be adjusted where appropriate.
Deterministic controls Focuses on specifi c credible Individual property risks scenarios Realistic Disaster Scenarios Modelling of market risk Credit limits Over the last two years RAM has invested Systematic tail risk Focuses on extreme tail risk and Natural man-made in better modelling of market risk, providing associated capital and balance catastrophes an independent check that the Groups sheet impacts Risk aggregations investments are being managed within Investment risk the agreed risk appetite.
Market risk Credit risk 1 tolerance is based on Value at Risk VaR Earnings volatility Focuses on centre of risk Localised underwriting risk which changes according to the portfolio distribution Reserving risk composition.
RAM also monitors and Investment risk reports risk as indicated by other measures Operational failure which include drawdown, volatility and Sharp ratio.
Reputation To ensure no major surprises for Regulatory risk external stakeholders Financial Strength Rating 1 VaR is a statistical measure, which calculates the downgrade possible loss over a year, in normal market conditions.
Withdrawal of investor or As VaR estimates are based on historical market data fi financial support this should not be viewed as an absolute gauge of the level of risk to the investments 48 www.
Shareholder information 201 Principal risks and uncertainties Principal Risks Nature of Risk Key controls and mitigation strategies Underwriting catastrophe risk The risk of claims arising from Underlying strategy and diversity of exposure inherent uncertainties in the Aggregate exposure limits occurrence of insurance losses Probable maximum loss limits associated with natural or manmade catastrophic events.
Modelling of loss scenarios including stochastic DFA modelling Reinsurance programme Underwriting attritional risk The risk of unexpected or Underwriting authority limits per contract and peer review unbudgeted increase in cost of Business planning processes small or large insurance claims.
Technical pricing assessment and underwriting strategy Reinsurance programme Monitoring and performance review Underwriting reserving risk The risk of unexpected or Reserving process within claims and underwriting management teams unbudgeted increase in claims In-house actuarial reserve review independent of underwriting teams emanating from business written Reserves are set in excess of actuarial best estimate where profit has been declared.
Reinsurance programme Market risk investment market The risk arising from fluctuations Investment policy and strategic asset allocation volatility in values of investments.
Tactical asset allocation Diversified portfolio Modelling and monitoring of investment risk Hedging of market value movements in investments Market risk currency uctuation Impact on the value of balance Asset liability matching for major currencies sheet or earnings arising from the Hedging of Amlin Bermuda US dollar and ACI Euro net asset exposures movement in value of key nonSale of foreign currency profits functional currencies.
Reinsurance programme Credit risk re insurance counter party The risk of loss if a counter party Reinsurer selection and rating fails to perform its obligations or fails Controls over exposure placed per reinsurer to perform them in a timely fashion.
Controls over credit limits provided to brokers Reinsurance and broker debt credit control Collateralised reinsurance for unregulated reinsurers Liquidity risk including asset liability The risk arising from insufficient Stress testing of liquidity needs relative to major catastrophe events matching financial resources being available Maintaining sufficient liquidity in investment portfolio to address claims needs to meet liabilities as they fall due.
Operational risk Risks resulting from inadequate or Procedural controls including workflow management implemented through failed internal processes, people and management organisation systems, or from external events, Monitoring of compliance with established procedures and processes including regulatory control failures.
Employee manual and Human Resource policies Business Continuity Management planning Strategic risk Risks to appropriateness of business Executive Risk Committee review of emerging risks strategy in the face of the external Long-term strategies developed addressing diversification of underwriting environment.
platform Acquisition due diligence and risk assessment processes Establishing review to address specific emerging risks such as Climate Change and Environment panel Enterprise-level risk Risks associated with one or more of Mitigation strategies for each underlying risk exposure as outlined above a portfolio of principal risks occurring Additionally the risk management framework developed ensures that potential and providing an aggregated impact risk exposures are considered individually and in aggregation on the organisation as a whole.
Group Risk produces an aggregated group risk profile providing an enterprisewide review of risk exposure for the Group executive and the Board Stress testing of a combination of material risks 49
