82 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Risk factors The following information sets forth the risk factors which the Group the speed and extent of possible rises in interest rates in the UK, US believes could cause its future results to differ materially from expected and eurozone: results.
However, other factors could also adversely affect the Groups the possibility of further falls in residential property prices in the UK, results and so the factors discussed in this report should not be South Africa and Spain: considered to be a complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties.
the potential for single name risk and for idiosyncratic losses in different The Groups approach to identifying, assessing, managing and reporting sectors and geographies where credit positions are sensitive to risks is formalised in its Principal Risk framework, and definitions of the 13 economic downturn: Principal Risks are given below.
A description of the Principal Risk framework is provided on page 90. possible additional deterioration in our remaining credit market exposures, including commercial real estate and leveraged finance: This summary of risk factors also includes a discussion of the impact of business conditions and the general economy, which are not Principal Risks the potential impact of deteriorating sovereign credit quality: but can impact risk factors such as credit and market risk and so influence the Groups results.
changes in the value of Sterling relative to other currencies, which could increase risk weighted assets and therefore raise the capital Business conditions and general economy requirements of the Group: and Barclays operates a universal banking business model and its services range the liquidity and volatility of capital markets and investors appetite for from current accounts for personal customers to inflation-risk hedging for risk, which could lead to a decline in the income that the Group receives governments and institutions.
The Group also has significant activities in from fees and commissions.
There are, therefore, many ways in which changes in business conditions and the general economy can adversely Principal Risk Factors impact Barclays profitability, be they at the level of the Group, the individual Retail and Wholesale Credit risk business units or the specific countries in which we operate.
Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss, should any of the Groups The Groups stress testing framework helps it understand the impact customers, clients or market counterparties fail to fulfil their contractual of changes in business conditions and the general economy, as well as the obligations to the Group.
The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly sensitivity of its business goals to such changes and the scope of from wholesale and retail loans and advances.
However, credit risk may also management actions to mitigate their impact.
arise where the downgrading of an entitys credit rating causes a fall in the As the current downturn has shown, higher unemployment in the UK, fair value of the Groups investment in that entitys financial instruments.
US, Spain and South Africa has led to increased arrears in our credit card In a recessionary environment, such as that recently seen in the United portfolios, while falls in GDP have reduced the credit quality of the Groups Kingdom, the United States and other economies, credit risk increases.
In both cases, there is an increased risk that a higher Credit risk may also be manifested as country risk where difficulties proportion of the Groups customers and counterparties may be unable to may arise in the country in which the exposure is domiciled, thus impeding meet their obligations.
In addition, declines in residential and commercial or reducing the value of the assets, or where the counterparty may be the property prices have reduced the value of collateral and caused mark to country itself.
market losses in some of the Groups trading portfolios.
Another form of credit risk is settlement risk, which is the possibility The business conditions facing the Group in 2010 are subject to that the Group may pay funds away to a counterparty but fail to receive the significant uncertainties, most notably: corresponding settlement in return.
The Group is exposed to many different the extent and sustainability of economic recovery and asset prices in industries and counterparties in the normal course of its business, but its the UK, US, Spain and South Africa as governments consider how and exposure to counterparties in the financial services industry is particularly when to withdraw stimulus packages: significant.
This exposure can arise through trading, lending, deposit-taking, clearance and settlement and many other activities and relationships.
These the dynamics of unemployment in those markets and the impact on counterparties include broker dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, delinquency and charge-off rates: mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 83 relationships expose the Group to credit risk in the event of default of a The Groups market risk governance structure, management and counterparty and to systemic risk affecting its counterparties.
Where the measurement methodologies, together with an analysis of exposures Group holds collateral against counterparty exposures, it may not be able to to both traded and non-traded market risk is detailed in the Market risk realise it or liquidate it at prices sufficient to cover the full exposures.
Many of management section on page 122 and Note 48 to the financial statements the hedging and other risk management strategies utilised by the Group on page 283.
Further details relating to the Groups pension risk is included also involve transactions with financial services counterparties.
The failure in Note 30 on page 236. of these counterparties to settle, or the perceived weakness of these Capital risk counterparties, may impair the effectiveness of the Groups hedging and Capital risk is the risk that the Group has insufficient capital resources to: other risk management strategies.
The Groups credit risk governance structure, management and meet minimum regulatory requirements in the UK and in other measurement methodologies, together with an analysis of exposures to jurisdictions such as the United States and South Africa where regulated credit risk is detailed in the Credit risk management section on page 94 activities are undertaken.
The Groups authority to operate as a bank is and Note 47 to the financial statements on page 269. dependent upon the maintenance of adequate capital resources: An analysis of Barclays Capitals credit market exposures is detailed on support its credit rating.
A weaker credit rating would increase the pages 109 to 118.
Groups cost of funds: and Market risk support its growth and strategic options.
Market risk is the risk that the Groups earnings or capital, or its ability to mee t business objectives, will be adversely affected by changes in the level Regulators assess the Groups capital position and target levels of capital or volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, credit spreads, resources on an ongoing basis.
Targets may increase in the future, and rules commodity prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates.
dictating the measurement of capital may be adversely changed, which The majority of market risk exposure resides in Barclays Capital.
Barclays would constrain the Groups planned activities and contribute to adverse is also exposed to market risk through non-traded interest rate risk and the impacts on the Groups earnings.
During periods of market dislocation, pension fund.
increasing the Groups capital resources in order to meet targets may prove more difficult or costly.
The Groups future earnings could be affected by depressed asset valuations resulting from deterioration in market conditions.
Financial In December 2009 the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued a consultative document that outlined proposed changes to the definition markets are sometimes subject to stress conditions where steep falls in asset values can occur, as demonstrated by events in 2007 and 2008 of regulatory capital.
These proposals are going through a period of affecting asset backed CDOs and the US sub-prime residential mortgage consultation and are expected to be introduced by the beginning of 2013, market and which may occur in other asset classes during an economic with substantial transitional arrangements.
While the proposals may downturn.
Severe market events are difficult to predict and, if they continue significantly impact the capital resources and requirements of the Group, to occur, could result in the Group incurring additional losses.
the Group maintains sufficient Balance Sheet flexibility to adapt accordingly.
From the second half of 2007, the Group recorded material net losses Liquidity risk on certain credit market exposures, including ABS CDO Super Senior Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations as exposures.
As market conditions change, the fair value of these exposures they fall due as a result of a sudden, and potentially protracted, increase in could fall further and result in additional losses or impairment charges, net cash outflows.
Such outflows would deplete available cash resources for which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups earnings.
Such client lending, trading activities and investments.
In extreme circumstances, losses or impairment charges could derive from: a decline in the value of lack of liquidity could result in reductions in balance sheet and sales of exposures: a decline in the ability of counterparties, including monoline assets, or potentially an inability to fulfil lending commitments.
This risk is insurers, to meet their obligations as they fall due: or the ineffectiveness inherent in all banking operations and can be affected by a range of of hedging and other risk management strategies in circumstances of institution-specific and market-wide events.
84 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Risk factors continued During periods of market dislocation the Groups ability to manage People risk liquidity requirements may be impacted by a reduction in the availability People risk arises from failures of the Group to manage its key risks as an of wholesale term funding as well as an increase in the cost of raising employer, including lack of appropriate people resource, failure to manage wholesale funds.
Asset sales, balance sheet reductions and the increasing performance and reward, unauthorised or inappropriate employee activity costs of raising funding may have a material effect on the earnings of and failure to comply with employment related requirements.
Regulatory risk In illiquid markets, the Group may decide to hold assets rather than Regulatory risk arises from a failure or inability to comply fully with the laws, securitising, syndicating or disposing of them.
This could affect the Groups regulations or codes applicable specifically to the financial services industry.
ability to originate new loans or support other customer transactions as Non-compliance could lead to fines, public reprimands, damage to both capital and liquidity are consumed by existing or legacy assets.
reputation, increased prudential requirements, enforced suspension of The FSA issued its policy document on strengthening liquidity operations or, in extreme cases, withdrawal of authorisations to operate.
standards on 5th October 2009 detailing the requirements for liquidity In addition, the Groups businesses and earnings can be affected by the governance to be in place by 1st December 2009, and the quantitative fiscal or other policies and other actions of various governmental and requirements for liquidity buffers, which will be in place from 1st June 2010, regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom, the European Union EU, the although with an extended transition period of several years to meet the United States, South Africa and elsewhere.
All these are subject to change, expected standards.
particularly in an environment where recent developments in the global In addition, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision released a markets have led to an increase in the involvement of various governmental consultative document International framework for liquidity risk and regulatory authorities in the financial sector and in the operations of measurement, standards and monitoring in December 2009.
In particular, governmental and regulatory authorities two new key liquidity metrics.
A liquidity coverage ratio aimed at ensuring in the United Kingdom, the United States and elsewhere are implementing banks have sufficient unencumbered high quality assets to meet cash measures to increase regulatory control in their respective banking sectors, outflows in an acute short-term stress and a net stable funding ratio to including by imposing enhanced capital and liquidity requirements.
Any promote longer-term structural funding of banks balance sheet and capital future regulatory changes may potentially restrict the Groups operations, market activities.
mandate certain lending activity and impose other compliance costs.
The Groups liquidity risk management and measurement Areas where changes could have an impact include: methodologies are detailed in the Liquidity Risk Management section on page 130 and the Liquidity Risk note to the financial statements on the monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and page 287. regulatory authorities: Operations risk general changes in government or regulatory policy that may Operations risk is the risk of losses from inadequate or failed internal significantly influence investor decisions, in particular markets in which processes and systems, caused by human error or external events.
the Group operates: Operations risk has a broad scope and for that reason, the Groups Risk general changes in regulatory requirements, for example, prudential Control Frameworks are defined at a more granular level within the overall rules relating to the capital adequacy framework and rules designed to Operations Principal Risk.
These risks are transaction operations, new promote financial stability and increase depositor protection: product development, premises, external suppliers, payments process and changes in competition and pricing environments: the management of information, data quality and records.
Financial crime risk further developments in the financial reporting environment: Financial crime risk is the risk that the Group suffers losses as a result of differentiation amongst financial institutions by governments with internal and external fraud or intentional damage, loss or harm to people, respect to the extension of guarantees to customer deposits and the premises or moveable assets.
terms attaching to those guarantees: and Technology risk implementation of, or costs related to, local customer or depositor Technology is a key business enabler and requires an appropriate level of compensation or reimbursement schemes.
control to ensure that the most significant technology risks are effectively managed.
Such risks include the non-availability of IT systems, inadequate Further details of specific matters that impact the Group are included in the Supervision and Regulation section on page 145 and Note 36 to the financial design and testing of new and changed IT solutions and inadequate IT system security.
Data privacy issues are covered under Regulatory Risk statements on page 248. and external supplier issues relating to technology are covered under Operations Risk.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 85 Financial reporting risk Taxation risk Financial reporting risk arises from a failure or inability to comply fully The Group is subject to the tax laws in all countries in which it operates, with the laws, regulations or codes in relation to the disclosure of financial including tax laws adopted at an EU level.
A number of double taxation information.
Non-compliance could lead to fines, public reprimands, agreements entered between two countries also impact on the taxation of damage to reputation, enforced suspension of operations or, in extreme the Group.
Tax risk is the risk associated with changes in tax law or in the cases, withdrawal of authorisations to operate.
Further details of the Groups interpretation of tax law.
It also includes the risk of changes in tax rates and internal controls over financial reporting are included in the Accountability the risk of failure to comply with procedures required by tax authorities.
and Audit Section on page 187.
Failure to manage tax risks could lead to an additional tax charge.
It could also lead to a financial penalty for failure to comply with required tax Legal risk procedures or other aspects of tax law.
If, as a result of a particular tax risk The Group is subject to a comprehensive range of legal obligations in all materialising, the tax costs associated with particular transactions are countries in which it operates.
As a result, the Group is exposed to many greater than anticipated, it could affect the profitability of those transactions.
forms of legal risk, which may arise in a number of ways.
Primarily: The Group takes a responsible and transparent approach to the the Groups business may not be conducted in accordance with management and control of its tax affairs and related tax risk, specifically: applicable laws around the world: tax risks are assessed as part of the Groups formal governance processes and are reviewed by the Executive Committee, Group Finance contractual obligations may either not be enforceable as intended or may be enforced against the Group in an adverse way: Director and the Board Risk Committee: the intellectual property of the Group such as its trade names may the tax charge is also reviewed by the Board Audit Committee: not be adequately protected: and the tax risks of proposed transactions or new areas of business are fully the Group may be liable for damages to third parties harmed by the considered before proceeding: conduct of its business.
the Group takes appropriate advice from reputable professional firms: The Group faces risk where legal proceedings are brought against it.
the Group employs high-quality tax professionals and provides ongoing Regardless of whether such claims have merit, the outcome of legal technical training: proceedings is inherently uncertain and could result in financial loss.
Defending legal proceedings can be expensive and time-consuming the tax professionals understand and work closely with the different and there is no guarantee that all costs incurred will be recovered even if the areas of the business: Group is successful.
Although the Group has processes and controls to the Group uses effective, well-documented and controlled processes to manage legal risks, failure to manage these risks could impact the Group ensure compliance with tax disclosure and filing obligations: and adversely, both financially and by reputation.
Further details of the Groups legal proceedings are included in Note 35 where disputes arise with tax authorities with regard to the to the financial statements on page 247. interpretation and application of tax law, the Group is committed to addressing the matter promptly and resolving the matter with the tax authority in an open and constructive manner.
86 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Risk factors continued Other Risk Factors Change risk In addition to the 13 Principal Risks, the Groups high-level risk classification Change risk arises when the Group needs to make extensive changes to its includes four other Level 1 risks.
These risks are in general less amenable to operations.
The cost of implementation projects may overrun, or they may formal quantification than the Principal Risks in terms of risk measurement fail to achieve their objectives.
Examples of situations in which change risk or setting risk appetite.
However, they retain the potential to impact the arises include the integration of acquired businesses, significant business Groups performance.
unit restructuring, changes in target operating models, the roll-out of new and potentially disruptive technologies, the introduction of a single currency Strategic Risk such as the euro, and Group-wide projects to implement significant new The Group devotes substantial management and planning resources to regulation such as Basel II.
the development of strategic plans for organic growth and identification of possible acquisitions, supported by substantial expenditure to generate Corporate sustainability risk growth in customer business.
If these strategic plans are not delivered as Corporate sustainability risk arises from the failure to identify and manage the imp anticipated, the Groups earnings could grow more slowly or decline.
In act of business decisions and activities on the community and the addition, the Groups strategy could be impacted by revenue volatility due environment, covering the following themes: customers and clients, to factors such as macroeconomic conditions, inflexible cost structures, inclusive banking, the environment, diversity and responsible global uncompetitive products or pricing and structural inefficiencies.
For more information, see page 22.
Brand management risk Barclays defines brand risk as the failure to manage the visual identity of Barclays brands in an effective manner.
This is distinct from reputational impact damage to the general brand reputation of Barclays, which is a potential by-product of financial, strategic or operational risks.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 87 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy Barclays has clear risk management objectives and a well-established Assigning responsibilities strategy to deliver them, through core risk management processes.
Responsibility for risk management resides at all levels within the Group, At a strategic level, our risk management objectives are: from the Board and the Executive Committee down through the To identify the Groups material risks.
organisation to each business manager and risk specialist.
Barclays distributes these responsibilities so that risk return decisions are taken at To formulate the Groups Risk Appetite and ensure that business profile the most appropriate level: as close as possible to the business, and subject and plans are consistent with it.
to robust and effective review and challenge.
The responsibilities for To optimise risk return decisions by taking them as closely as possible effective review and challenges reside with senior managers, risk oversight to the business, while establishing strong and independent review and committees, Barclays Internal Audit, the independent Group Risk function, challenge structures.
the Board Risk Committee and ultimately, the Board.
The Board is responsible for approving Risk Appetite, which is the level To ensure that business growth plans are properly supported by of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business objectives.
most of the Boards scheduled meetings, the Chief Risk Officer presents a To manage risk profile to ensure that specific financial deliverables report summarising developments in the risk environment and performance remain possible under a range of adverse business conditions.
trends in the key portfolios.
The Board is also responsible for the Internal Control and Assurance Framework.
It oversees the management of the To help executives improve the control and co-ordination of risk taking most significant risks through the regular review of risk exposures and across the business.
Executive Management responsibilities relating to The Groups strategy is to break down risk management into five discrete this are set via the Groups Principal Risks Policy.
processes: direct, assess, control, report, and manage challenge.
Each of The Board Risk Committee BRC monitors the Groups risk profile these processes is broken down further, to establish end to end activities against the agreed appetite.
Where actual performance differs from within the risk management process and the infrastructure needed to expectations, the actions being taken by management are reviewed to support it see panel below.
ensure that the BRC is comfortable with them.
After each meeting, the Chair of the BRC prepares a report for the next meeting of the Board.
Barclays first established a separate Board Risk Committee in 1999 and all members are non-executive directors.
The Finance Director and the Chief Risk Officer attend each meeting as a matter of course and the Chief Risk Officer has a dotted reporting line to the Chair.
The BRC receives regular and comprehensive reports on the Groups risk profile, the key issues affecting each business portfolio, risk measurement methodologies and forward risk trends.
The Committee also commissions in-depth analyses of significant risk topics, which are presented by the Chief Risk Officer or senior risk managers in the businesses.
The Chair of the Committee prepares a statement each year on its activities see page 166.
Process Activity Direct Understand the principal risks to achieving Group strategy.
Establish and communicate the risk management framework including responsibilities, authorities and key controls.
Assess Establish the process for identifying and analysing business-level risks.
Agree and implement measurement and reporting standards and methodologies.
Control Establish key control processes and practices, including limit structures, impairment allowance criteria and reporting requirements.
Monitor the operation of the controls and adherence to risk direction and limits.
Provide early warning of control or appetite breaches.
Ensure that risk management practices and conditions are appropriate for the business environment.
Report Interpret and report on risk exposures, concentrations and risk-taking outcomes.
Interpret and report on sensitivities and Key Risk Indicators.
Manage and Review and challenge all aspects of the Groups risk profile.
Challenge Assess new risk-return opportunities.
Advise on optimising the Groups risk profile.
Review and challenge risk management practices.
88 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued The Board Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on control issues Summaries of the relevant business, professional and risk management of significance and a half-yearly review of the adequacy of impairment experience of the Directors of the Board are given on pages 10 and 11.
The allowances, which it reviews relative to the risk inherent in the portfolios, the terms of reference for each of the principal Board Committees are available business environment, the Groups policies and methodologies and the from the Corporate Governance section at: www.
performance trends of peer banks.
The Chair of the Board Audit Committee The Chief Risk Officer is a member of the Executive Committee and has also sits on the Board Risk Committee.
See page 159 for additional details on overall day to day accountability for risk management under delegated the membership and activities of the Board Audit Committee.
authority from the Finance Director.
The Finance Director must consult the The Board HR and Remuneration Committee receives advice from the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee in respect of the Chief Risk Officers Board Risk Committee on the management of remuneration risk, including performance appraisal and compensation as well as all appointments to or advice on the setting of performance objectives in the context of incentive departures from the role.
Governance structure at Group level Board oversight Board Approves overall Group Risk Appetite.
Board Audit Committee Board HR and Remuneration Committee Board Risk Committee Considers the adequacy and effectiveness Review the Group risk profile.
Authority controls appetite of the Group Control Framework.
Approves the Group Control Framework.
Reviews reports on control issues of Approves minimum control requirements Group-level significance.
Risk adjusted performance Assurance Group Chief Executive Reporting and control Group Executive Committee Monitors and manages risk adjusted performance of businesses.
Governance and Control Committee Group Risk Oversight Committee Treasury Committee Reviews the adequacy and effectiveness Monitors risk profile in respect to Sets policy controls for liquidity, maturity of the Group Control Framework.
transformation and structural interest rate exposure.
Monitors compliance with the Framework Debates and agrees actions on the risk including remediation of significant profile and risk strategy across the Group.
Monitors the Groups liquidity and interest control issues.
Considers issues escalated by Risk Type Reviews reports on control issues of Heads and Business Risk Directors.
Monitors usage of regulatory and Group-level significance.
Oversees the management of the Groups capital plan.
Assurance Internal Audit Assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Control Framework.
Note The governance structure will not change following the restructure of the Group announced in November 2009. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 89 The Chief Risk Officer manages the independent Group Risk function management of their business risk profiles and for implementing and chairs the Group Risk Oversight Committee, which monitors the appropriate controls.
These teams also assist Group Risk in the formulation Groups risk profile relative to established risk appetite.
Reporting to the Chief of Group policies and their implementation across the businesses.
The Risk Officer, and working in the Group Risk function, are risk-type heads for: business risk directors report jointly to their respective business heads and retail credit risk, wholesale credit risk, market risk, operational risk, financial to the Chief Risk Officer.
crime risk and capital analytics.
Along with their teams, the risk-type heads The risk type heads within the central Group Risk function and the are responsible for establishing a Group-wide framework for risk control business risk directors within the business units report to the Chief Risk framework and oversight.
These risk-type teams liaise with each business Officer and are members of the Group Risk Oversight Committee.
as part of the monitoring and management processes.
In addition, each business unit has an embedded risk management function, headed by a business risk director.
Business risk directors and their teams are responsible for assisting business heads in the identification and Governance structure by risk type Board Internal Audit Group Chief Executive Divisional Chief Executive Officers Group Finance Director Business Heads Chief Risk Officer Business Risk Directors Group Risk Heads Retail Wholesale Market Operational Financial Capital Credit Risk Risk Demand Credit Risk Risk Crime Risk Plan and control the taking of credit risk Ensure traded Capture, understand Develop a clear Maintain and based on clear and accurate assessments.
market risk resides and report the profile of financial develop the primarily within operational risks crime risk across Groups economic Support business decision-making and Barclays Capital, being taken by the Group.
proactive identification of new risks.
Share intelligence, Prepare Risk Ensure a robust framework for the creation, non-traded On a cost-benefit adopt common Appetite for the use and monitoring of credit risk models.
basis, minimise standards and Board to approve the frequency Understand and respond promptly and track.
control market and impact of to emerging issues.
Conduct stress operational risk risk by robust Drive forward law testing exercises.
enforcement and and setting of Co-ordinate Group other government position limits.
Risk input in the initiatives.
Groups mediumFacilitate business term planning.
growth within controlled and Provide assurance transparent risk on each business management capital demand.
90 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of risk These control requirements are given further specification, according to management and the control environment.
Its objective is to provide the business unit or risk type, to provide a complete and appropriate system reliable, valued and timely assurance to the Board and Executive of internal control.
Management over the effectiveness of controls, mitigating current and Business unit and Group centre heads are responsible for obtaining evolving high risks and in so doing enhancing the controls culture within the ongoing assurance that the controls they have put in place to manage the Group.
The Board Audit Committee reviews and approves Internal Audits risks to their business objectives are operating effectively.
Six-monthly plans and resources, and evaluates the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
reviews support the regulatory requirement for the Group to make a An assessment by external advisers is also carried out periodically.
statement about its system of internal controls the Turnbull statement, In addition to the Committees shown in the chart, there is a Brand and in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Reputation Committee reviewing emerging issues with potentially PROs report their assessments of the risk exposure and control significant reputational impact.
effectiveness to Group-level oversight committees.
Their assessments Risk management responsibilities are laid out in the Principal Risks form the basis of the reports that go to the Board Risk Committee.
Policy, which covers the categories of risk in which the Group has its most significant actual or potential risk exposures.
Setting and using Risk Appetite The Principal Risks Framework: Risk Appetite is the level of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its creates clear ownership and accountability: business objectives.
ensures the Groups risk exposures are understood and managed in As part of the yearly planning process, we add up our estimated bad accordance with agreed risk appetite for financial risks and risk debts charges and ask ourselves if that potential level of credit loss is tolerances for non-financial risks : and consistent with our strategy, with our business position, and with our capital.
ensures regular reporting of both risk exposures and the operating The starting point is the total expected credit loss, assuming the base effectiveness of controls.
To gain a more rounded understanding of the risk, Each Principal Risk is owned by a senior individual within Barclays, known as the Group estimates credit losses based on the kind of stressed conditions the Principal Risk Owner PRO who is required to document, communicate that can be expected to occur approximately once every seven years and maintain a risk control framework which makes clear the mandated moderate stress and once every 25 years severe stress.
These potentially control requirements in managing that Principal Risk, for every business larger but increasingly less likely levels of loss are illustrated in the Risk across the firm.
Risk Appetite concepts diagram not to scale Principal Risks Other Level 1 Risks Retail Credit Strategic Mean Loss Wholesale Credit Change Market Corporate Sustainability Capital Brand Management Liquidity Expected Economic capital Operations Loss Moderate Financial Crime Stress Technology People Severe Stress Regulatory Extreme Stress Financial Reporting Legal Taxation Potential size of loss in one year Probability of loss www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 91 Risk Appetite is prepared for the Board, as part of the formal planning For example, in the UK mortgage business a series of explicit mandate process.
The Board requires credible plans that show the Executive is aware and scale limits have kept the average loan to value of the portfolio at of risk sensitivities and potential downside cases, and is investing capital into conservative levels, set an upper boundary on the proportion of buy-to-let sustainable businesses over an economic cycle.
The Chief Risk Officer leads customers, and set at zero our appetite to offer self-certified mortgages.
the discussion at the Executive and Board levels.
If the projections entail too In our commercial property finance portfolios, a comprehensive series high a level of risk, management will challenge each area to find new ways of limits are in place to control exposure within each business and to rebalance the business mix to incur less overall risk.
To ensure that limits are aligned to the underlying risk Risk Appetite is measured and reported to the Executive and Board regularly characteristics, the Mandate and Scale limits differentiate between types of throughout the year.
There are, for example, individual limits for property investment As well as credit risk, the Risk Appetite framework also considers market and property development and for senior and subordinated lending.
the onset of the global economic downturn, these limits have been reduced Barclays uses Risk Appetite to: significantly and the frequency of review has been increased.
Barclays uses the Mandate and Scale framework to: improve management confidence and debate regarding our risk profile: limit concentration risk: give executives greater control and co-ordination of risk-taking across businesses: keep business activities within Group and individual business mandate: re-balance the risk profile of the medium-term plan to achieve a superior ensure activities remain of an appropriate scale relative to the underlying risk-return profile: and risk and reward: and identify unused risk capacity.
ensure risk-taking is supported by appropriate expertise and capabilities.
There is a second element to Risk Appetite setting in Barclays: the extensive As well as Group-level Mandate and Scale limits, further limits are set by risk system of Mandate and Scale limits, which are set by the independent managers within each business unit, covering particular portfolios.
Taken as Group Risk function, formally monitored each month and subject to Boarda whole, the Risk Appetite framework provides a basis for the allocation of level oversight.
risk capacity across the Barclays Group.
The framework operates through limits and triggers, which work in tandem with clearly defined lending criteria for specific sectors, industries and products, in order to maintain asset quality.
92 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued To ensure that the governance process is effective, and that Modelling risk management time is focused on the more material models, each model is provided with a materiality rating.
The GMRP defines the materiality ranges Risk taking on any meaningful scale requires quantification.
Barclays uses risk models in an extensive range of decisions, from credit grading, pricing for all model types, based on an assessment of the impact to the Group in the event of a model error.
The final level of model sign-off is based on and approval to portfolio management, risk appetite setting, economic capital allocation and regulatory capital calculations.
materiality, with all of a business units models initially being approved in business unit committees.
The more material models are also approved The key inputs into the models used to quantify credit risk are: at the Group-level Material Models Technical Committee, and the most Probability of default PD.
material models require further approval by the Executive Models Exposure at default EAD.
Committee, a sub-committee of Group Executive Committee.
This process ensures that the most significant models are subject Loss given default LGD.
to the most rigorous review, and that senior management have a good understanding of the most material models in the Group.
Although the These models are used in a range of applications that measure credit risk across the Group.
For example, Barclays can assign an expected loss over final level of model sign-off will vary, depending on model materiality, the standards required by the GMRP do not change with the materiality level.
the next 12 months to each customer by multiplying these three factors.
We calculate probability of default PD by assessing the credit quality of The GMRP also sets detailed standards that a model must meet during development and subsequent use.
For new models, documentation must borrowers and other counterparties.
For the sake of illustration, suppose a customer has a 0.5% probability of defaulting over a 12-month period.
be sufficiently detailed to allow an expert to understand all aspects of model development such that they could reproduce the model.
It must include a The exposure at default EAD is our estimate of what the outstanding balance will be, if the customer does default.
Supposing the current balance description of the data used for model development, the methodology used and the rationale for choosing such a methodology, a description of any is 1,000, our models might predict a rise to 1,200 by then.
Should customers default, some part of the exposure is usually recovered.
The part assumptions made, as well as details of the strengths and weaknesses of the model.
that is not recovered, together with the economic costs associated with the recovery process, comprise the loss given default LGD, which is expressed All new models are subject to validation and independent review before they can be signed off for implementation.
The model validation exercise as a percentage of EAD.
Supposing the LGD in this case is estimated to be 30%, the expected loss for this customer is: 0.5% x 1,200 x 30% or 1.80. must demonstrate that the model is fit for purpose and provides accurate estimates.
The independent review ensures that the model development The Group has an extensive range of models in use, covering estimations of PD, EAD, LGD as well as many other types of risk besides has followed a robust process and that the standards of the GMRP have been met, as well as ensuring that the model satisfies business and credit risk.
The models are developed and owned by each business unit and used to measure risk in their portfolios.
To minimise the risk of loss through regulatory requirements.
In addition, the most material models are subject to independent review by Group Risk.
Once implemented, all models are model failure, the Group Model Risk Policy GMRP was developed.
It is managed by the independent Group Risk function and was reviewed and subject to post-implementation review.
This confirms that the model has been implemented correctly and behaves as predicted.
The GMRP helps reduce the potential for model failure by setting The GMRP also sets the requirements for ongoing performance monitoring and the annual review process.
Once implemented, all models Group-wide minimum standards for the model development and implementation process.
The GMRP also sets the Group governance within the Group are subject to ongoing performance monitoring to ensure that any deficiencies are identified early, and that remedial action can be processes for all models, which allows model performance and risk to be monitored, and seeks to identify and escalate any potential problems at an taken before the decision-making process is affected.
As part of this process, early stage.
Model Governance Group Risk Oversight Committee Executive Models Committee Group Risk Technical Committee Group Material Models Technical Committee Business Unit Technical Committee www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 93 model owners set performance triggers and define appropriate actions for The Board Risk Committee agrees the range of scenarios to be tested their models in the event that a trigger level is breached.
and the independent Group Risk function co-ordinates the process, using In addition to regular monitoring, models are subject to an annual bottom-up analysis performed by the businesses.
The results of the stress validation process to ensure that they will continue to perform as expected, tests are presented to the Executive Committee, the Board Risk Committee, and that assumptions used in model development are still appropriate.
In the Strategy Board and the UK Financial Services Authority FSA.
line with initial sign-off requirements, annual validations are also formally In 2009, the range of stress scenarios included the stress test set out by reviewed at the appropriate technical committee.
the FSA as part of its assessment of the Groups resilience to stressed credit Within Barclays Capital, where models are used to value positions risk, market risk and economic conditions over a five-year period.
This stress within the trading book, the positions are subject to regular independent scenario took into account a wide range of factors, including: price testing which covers all trading positions.
Prices are compared with the Groups revenue generation potential given stressed GDP and direct external market data where possible.
When this is not possible, more interest rates assumptions: analytic techniques are used, such as industry consensus pricing services.
These services enable peer banks to compare structured products and the probability of default and possible losses given default within its model-input parameters on an anonymous basis.
The conclusions and any loan book: and exceptions to this exercise are communicated to senior levels of business possible declines in the market value of assets held in the trading books.
Externally developed models are subject to the same governance Following this work and discussion with the FSA, the Group was able to standards as internal models, and must be approved for use following the confirm that its capital position and resources, after exposure to the stress, validation and independent review process.
External models are also subject were expected to continue to meet the FSAs capital requirements.
to the same standards for ongoing monitoring and annual validation Barclays uses stress testing techniques at Group, portfolio and product requirements.
level and across a range of risk types.
For example, portfolio management in the US cards business employs stressed assumptions of unemployment to determine profitability hurdles for new accounts.
And in the UK mortgage Stress testing business, affordability thresholds incorporate stressed estimates of A fundamental duty of risk management is to ensure that organisations do interest rates.
not neglect to prepare for the worst event as they plan for success.
Stress In the Investment Banking division, global scenario testing is used to testing helps Barclays to understand how its portfolios would react if gauge potential losses that could arise in conditions of extreme market business conditions became significantly more challenging.
Stress testing is also conducted on our positions in particular asset specific forward-looking scenarios and analyse how well our profitability classes, including interest rates, commodities, equities, credit and foreign would hold up, whether our levels of capital would be adequate and what exchange.
managers could do ahead of time to mitigate the risk.
Further details of the Groups stress testing relating to liquidity risk is set Stress tests capture a wide range of macroeconomic variables that are out on page 130. relevant to the current environment, such as: GDP: unemployment: asset prices: and interest rates.
94 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk managemen Risk management t Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss should any of the Organisation and structure Groups customers, clients or market counterparties fail to fulfil their contractual obligations to the Group.
Barclays has structured the responsibilities of credit risk management so that decisions are taken as close as possible to the business, whilst ensuring The granting of credit is one of the Groups major sources of income and, robust review and challenge of performance, risk infrastructure and as the most significant risk, the Group dedicates considerable resources strategic plans.
The credit risk management teams in each business are accountable The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from wholesale and to the business risk directors in those businesses who, in turn, report to the retail loans and advances together with the counterparty credit risk arising heads of their businesses and also to the Chief Risk Officer.
from derivative contracts entered into with our clients.
The role of the Group Risk function is to provide Group-wide direction, Barclays is also exposed to other credit risks arising from its trading oversight and challenge of credit risk-taking.
Group Risk sets the Credit Risk activities, including debt securities, settlement balances with market Control Framework, which provides a structure within which credit risk is counterparties, available for sale assets and reverse repurchase loans.
managed together with supporting Group Credit Risk Policies.
In managing credit risk, the Group applies the five-step risk Group Credit Risk Policies currently in force include: management process.
Credit risk management objectives are: Maximum Exposure Guidelines to limit the exposures to an individual To establish a framework of controls to ensure credit risk-taking is based customer or counterparty: on sound credit risk management principles.
Country risk policies to specify Risk Appetite by country and avoid To identify, assess and measure credit risk clearly and accurately across excessive concentration of credit risk in individual countries: the Group and within each separate business, from the level of individual Aggregation policy to set out the circumstances in which counterparties facilities up to the total portfolio.
should be grouped together for credit risk purposes: To control and plan credit risk-taking in line with external stakeholder Expected loss policies to set out the Group approaches for the calculation expectations and avoiding undesirable concentrations.
of expected loss, i. e. Group measure of anticipated loss for exposures: To monitor credit risk and adherence to agreed controls.
Repayment plans policy for setting the standards for repayment plans and To ensure that risk-reward objectives are met.
restructures within retail portfolios: and In the review of Barclays credit risk management that follows, we first Impairment and provisioning policies to ensure that measurement of explain how the Group meets its credit risk management objectives through impairment accurately reflects incurred losses and that clear governance its organisation, structure and governance, measurement, reporting and procedures are in place for the calculation and approval of impairment system of internal ratings.
We then provide a summary of the Groups total assets, including the The largest credit exposures are approved at the Group Credit Committee asset types which give rise to credit risk and counterparty credit risk, namely: which is managed by Group Risk.
Group Risk also manages and approves loans and advances, debt securities and derivatives.
the Mandate and Scale limits and triggers which mitigate concentration risk On pages 96 to 107, we set out a detailed analysis of the Groups loans and define appetite in risk sensitive areas of the portfolio such as and advances across a number of asset classes and businesses referencing commercial property finance see page 91. significant portfolios and including summary measures of asset quality.
Group Risk also provides technical support, review and validation of We provide disclosures and analyses of the credit risk profiles of these credit risk measurement models across the Group.
asset categories, beginning with Barclays Capitals credit market exposures The principal Committees that review credit risk management, approve by asset class, covering current exposures, losses during 2009, sales and overall Group credit policy and resolve all significant credit policy issues are paydowns, foreign exchange movements and, where appropriate, details the Board Risk Committee, the Group Risk Oversight Committee, the of collateral held, geographic spread, vintage and credit quality.
These are Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee and the Retail Credit Risk given on pages 109 to 118.
Senior Group and business risk management are Finally, additional analysis of debt securities and derivatives is provided represented on the Group Risk Oversight Committee, the Wholesale Credit on pages 119 to 121.
Risk Management Committee and the Retail Credit Risk Management Committee.
On a semi-annual basis, the Credit Risk Impairment Committee CRIC obtains assurance on behalf of the Group that all businesses are recognising impairment in their portfolios accurately, promptly and in accordance with policy, accounting standards and established governance.
CRIC is chaired by the Credit Risk Director and reviews the movements to impairment in the businesses, including those already agreed at Credit Committee, as well as potential credit risk loans, loan loss rates, asset quality metrics and impairment coverage ratios.
CRIC makes twice-yearly recommendations to the Board Audit Committee on the adequacy of Group impairment allowances.
Impairment allowances are reviewed relative to the risk in the portfolio, business and economic trends, current policies and methodologies, and our position relative to peer banks.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 95 the Group internal models, vendor models such as MKMV Credit Edge Measurement and internal ratings and RiskCalc, and a conversion of external alphabet ratings from either S&P, Moodys or Fitch.
Retail models, especially those used for capital purposes, The principal objective of credit risk measurement is to produce the most accurate possible quantitative assessment of the credit risk to which the are almost exclusively built internally using Barclays data.
In many cases bureau data is used to complement internal data and in rare cases models Group is exposed, from the level of individual facilities up to the total portfolio.
Integral to this is the calculation of internal ratings, which are used developed by the credit bureau themselves are used in conjunction with internal models.
In addition, in some low data low default environments, in numerous aspects of credit risk management and in the calculation of regulatory and economic capital.
The key building blocks of this process are: external developments may also be utilised.
A key element of the Barclays wholesale framework is the PD Probability of default PD.
This scale has been developed to distinguish meaningful differences in the probability of default risk throughout the risk Exposure at default EAD.
In contrast to wholesale businesses, retail areas rarely bucket Loss given default LGD.
exposures into generic grades for account management purposes To calculate probability of default PD, Barclays assesses the credit quality although they may be used for reporting purposes.
Instead, accounts are managed at a more granular and bespoke level.
of borrowers and other counterparties and assigns them an internal risk rating.
Multiple rating methodologies may be used to inform the overall Exposure at default EAD represents the expected level of usage of the credit facility should default occur.
At the point of default, the customer rating decision on individual large credits, such as internal and external models, rating agency ratings, and, for wholesale assets, market information exposure can vary from the current position due to the combined effects of additional drawings, repayment of principal and interest and fees.
EAD such as credit spreads.
For smaller credits, a single source may suffice such as the result from an internal rating model.
Barclays recognises the need for parameters are all derived from internal estimates and are determined from internal historical behaviour.
The lower bound of EAD for regulatory capital two different expressions of PD depending on the purpose for which it is used.
For the purposes of calculating regulatory and economic capital, longpurposes is the current balance at calculation of EAD.
For derivative instruments, exposure in the event of default is the estimated cost of run average through-the-cycle TTC PDs are required.
However, for the purposes of pricing, PDs should represent the best estimate of probability of replacing contracts with a positive value should counterparties fail to perform their obligations.
default given the current position in the credit cycle.
Hence, point-in-time PIT PDs are also required.
Should a customer default, some part of the exposure is usually recovered.
The part that is not recovered, the actual loss, together with the Each PD model outputs an estimate of default probability that is PIT, TTC or a hybrid e. g. a 50:50 blend.
Bespoke conversion techniques, economic costs associated with the recovery process, comprise the loss given default LGD, which is expressed as a percentage of EAD.
The Group appropriate to the portfolio in question, are then applied to convert the model output to pure PIT and TTC PD estimates.
In deriving the appropriate estimates an average LGD for each type of exposure using historical information.
The level of LGD depends principally on: the type of collateral conversion, industry and location of the counterparty and an understanding of the current and long-term credit conditions are considered.
Both PIT and if any : the seniority or subordination of the exposure: the industry in which the customer operates if a business : the length of time taken for the recovery the TTC PD estimates are recorded for each client.
Within Barclays, the calculation of internal ratings differs between process and the timing of all associated cash flows: and the jurisdiction applicable and work-out expenses.
The outcome is also dependent on wholesale and retail customers.
For wholesale portfolios, the rating system is constructed to ensure that a client receives the same rating regardless of economic conditions that may determine, for example, the prices that can be realised for assets, whether a business can readily be refinanced or the the part of the business with which it is dealing.
To achieve this, a model hierarchy is adopted which requires users to adopt a specific approach to availability of a repayment source for personal customers.
For the purposes of regulatory capital an adjustment is made to the modelled LGD to account rating each counterparty depending upon the nature of the business and its for the increased losses experienced under downturn conditions, giving a location.
A range of methods are utilised for estimating wholesale downturn LGD.
com annualreport09 Risk management Credit risk management continued Measuring exposures and concentrations Reporting Loans and advances to customers provide the principal source of credit risk to the Group although Barclays can also be exposed to other forms of credit The Group dedicates considerable resources to gaining a clear and accurate understanding of credit risk across the business and ensuring that its risk through, for example, loans to banks, loan commitments and debt securities.
balance sheet correctly reflects the value of the assets in accordance with applicable accounting principles.
This process can be summarised in five Barclays risk management policies and processes are designed to identify and analyse risk, to set appropriate risk appetite, limits and controls, broad stages: and to monitor the risks and adherence to limits by means of reliable and measuring exposures and concentrations: timely data.
monitoring weaknesses in portfolios: One area of particular review is concentration risk.
A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar identifying potential problem loans and credit risk loans collectively activities and have similar economic characteristics that would cause their known as potential credit risk loans or PCRLs : ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in raising allowances for impaired loans: and economic and other conditions.
As a result, Barclays constantly reviews its concentration in a number of writing off assets when the whole or part of a debt is considered areas including, for example, geography, maturity, industry and investment irrecoverable.
Diversification is achieved through setting maximum exposure guidelines to individual counterparties.
Excesses are reported to the Group Risk Oversight Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Mandate and Scale limits are used to limit the stock of current exposures in a loan portfolio and the flow of new exposures into a loan portfolio.
Limits are typically based on the nature of the lending and the amount of the portfolio meeting certain standards of underwriting criteria.
1: Geographical analysis of loans and advances to customers Fig.
2: Maturity analysis of loans and advances to customers m m 1 UK 1 On demand 2 Not more than 2 Other EU 3 US three months 5 5 1 3 Over three months 4 Africa 1 4 4 5 Rest of World but not more than 2 5 2 5 one year 1 3 3 1 3 3 4 Over one year but 2 2 4 not more than five 4 years 5 Over five years 09 08 09 08 Fig.
3: Loans and advances to customers by industry Fig.
4: Exposure to sub-investment grade countries a 2008 2008 m % of total cross-border limits 2009 2009 Home loans Egypt Financial services Turkey Other personal Kenya Business and other services Indonesia Property Tanzania Wholesale and retail, Ghana distribution and leisure Manufacturing Pakistan Finance lease receivables Zambia Energy and water Uganda Transport Columbia Construction Angola Postal and Communication Philippines Agriculture, forestry Venezuela and fishing Mozambique Government Argentina Note a Total comprises all limits to cross-border counterparties non-UK where limits are greater than 10m.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 97 Monitoring weaknesses in portfolios Within the retail portfolios, which tend to comprise homogeneous Whilst the basic principles for monitoring weaknesses in wholesale and assets, statistical techniques more readily allow potential weaknesses to be retail exposures are broadly similar, they will reflect the differing nature of monitored on a portfolio basis.
The approach is consistent with the Groups the assets.
policy of raising a collective impairment allowance as soon as objective As a matter of policy all facilities granted to corporate or wholesale evidence of impairment is identified.
customers are subject to a review on, at least, an annual basis, even when Retail accounts can be classified according to specified categories of they are performing satisfactorily.
arrears status or cycle, which reflects the level of contractual payments Corporate accounts that are deemed to contain heightened levels of which are overdue on a loan.
risk are recorded on graded early warning lists or watchlists comprising three The probability of default increases with the number of contractual categories graded in line with the perceived severity of the risk attached to payments missed, thus raising the associated impairment requirement.
the lending, and its probability of default.
These are updated monthly and Once a loan has passed through all six cycles it will enter recovery status, circulated to the relevant risk control points.
Once an account has been having been charged off.
In most cases, charge-off will result in the account placed on watchlist WL or early warning list EWL, the exposure is carefully moving to a legal recovery function or debt sale.
This will typically occur after monitored and, where appropriate, exposure reductions are effected.
an account has been treated by a collections function.
However, in certain Should an account become impaired, it will normally have passed cases, an account may be charged off directly from a performing up to through each of the three categories, which reflect the need for increasing date status, such as in the case of insolvency or death.
Where an obligors financial health gives grounds for As a general principle, charge-off marks the point at which it becomes concern, it is immediately placed into the appropriate category.
While all more economically efficient to treat an account through a recovery function obligors, regardless of financial health, are subject to a full review of all or debt sale rather than a collections function.
Economic efficiency includes facilities on, at least, an annual basis, more frequent interim reviews may the discounted expected amount recovered and operational and legal be undertaken should circumstances dictate.
Whilst charge-off is considered an irreversible state, in certain cases, it Specialist recovery functions deal with clients in default, collection or may be acceptable for mortgage and vehicle finance accounts to move back insolvency.
Their mandate is to maximise shareholder value via the orderly from charge-off to performing or delinquent states.
This is only considered and timely recovery of impaired debts.
Accounts can stay in Recoveries for acceptable where local legislation requirements are in place, or where it is up to two years unless a longer-term strategy has been agreed.
deemed that the customer has a renewed willingness to pay and there is a Monitoring weaknesses in portfolios Wholesale account status Retail account status Performing Performing Current Including EWL 1-2, WL 1-3 Arrears Status 0 Watchlist Committee Business support assists Customer misses Customer pays total flags client on the basis the client to return to in contractual payment overdue payments of evidence of financial order position.
and moves to and returns back difficulty.
Business Support Delinquent Collections EWL 3, WL 3.5 Arrears Status 1- 6 Customers financial Customer reaches high difficulty requires a arrears status and is moved decision on the form to the recovery function of future relationship.
where legal action is taken.
Default Recovery Default Charge-off Recovery Arrears Status 6 Asset is considered Asset is considered irrecoverable and irrecoverable and is written off.
Write Off 98 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Credit risk management continued strong chance that they will be able to meet their contractual obligations Allowances for impairment and other credit provisions in the foreseeable future.
Barclays establishes, through charges against profit, impairment allowances For the majority of products, the standard period for charging off and other credit provisions for the incurred loss inherent in the lending book.
accounts is 180 days past due of contractual obligation.
However, in the Under IFRS, impairment allowances are recognised where there is case of customer bankruptcy or insolvency, the associated accounts will objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more loss events that be charged off within 60 days.
have occurred after initial recognition, and where these events have had an Within UKRB Local Business, accounts that are deemed to have a impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or portfolio heightened level of risk, or that exhibit some unsatisfactory features which of financial assets.
Impairment of loans and receivables is measured as the could affect viability in the short to medium term, are transferred to a difference between the carrying amount and the present value of estimated separate caution stream.
Accounts on the caution stream are reviewed on future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest at least a quarterly basis, at which time consideration is given to continuing rate.
If the carrying amount is less than the discounted cash flows, then no with the agreed strategy, returning the customer to a lower risk refer stream, further allowance is necessary.
or instigating recovery exit action.
Impairment allowances are measured individually for assets that are individually significant, and collectively where a portfolio comprises Identifying potential credit risk loans homogenous assets and where appropriate statistical techniques are In line with disclosure requirements from the Securities Exchange available.
Commission SEC in the US, the Group reports potentially and actually In terms of individual assessment, the trigger point for impairment is impaired loans as Potential Credit Risk Loans PCRLs.
PCRLs comprise two formal classification of an account as exhibiting serious financial problems categories of loans: Potential Problem Loans PPLs and Credit Risk Loans and where any further deterioration is likely to lead to failure.
to the cash flow calculation are the valuation of all security and collateral, PPLs are loans that are currently complying with repayment terms but as well as the timing of all asset realisations, after allowing for all attendant where serious doubt exists as to the ability of the borrower to continue to costs.
This method applies mainly in the corporate portfolios.
comply with such terms in the near future.
If the credit quality of a loan on For collective assessment, the trigger point for impairment is the an early warning or watch list deteriorates to the highest category missing of a contractual payment.
While the impairment allowance is wholesale or deteriorates to delinquency cycle 2 retail, consideration is calculated per individual account, the calculation methodology relies on given to including it within the PPL category.
the historical experience of pools of similar assets: hence the impairment Should further evidence of deterioration be observed, a loan may move allowance is collective.
The impairment calculation is based on a roll-rate to the CRL category.
Events that would trigger the transfer of a loan from the approach, where the percentage of assets that move from the initial PPL to the CRL category include a missed payment or a breach of covenant.
delinquency to default are derived from statistical probabilities based on CRLs comprise three classes of loans: historical experience.
Recovery amounts and contractual interest rates are calculated using a weighted average for the relevant portfolio.
This method Impaired loans comprise loans where individual identified impairment applies mainly to the Groups retail portfolios and is consistent with Barclays allowance has been raised and also include loans which are fully policy of raising an allowance as soon as impairment is identified.
collateralised or where indebtedness has already been written down to the Unidentified impairment allowances are also raised to cover losses expected realisable value.
The impaired loan category may include loans, which are judged to be incurred but not yet specifically identified in which, while impaired, are still performing.
customer exposures at the balance sheet date, and which, therefore, The category accruing past due 90 days or more comprises loans that have not been specifically reported.
are 90 days or more past due with respect to principal or interest.
An The incurred but not yet reported calculation is based on the assets impairment allowance will be raised against these loans if the expected probability of moving from the performing portfolio to being specifically cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate are less than the identified as impaired within the given emergence period and then on to carrying value.
This is calculated on the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original The category impaired and restructured loans comprises loans not effective interest rate.
included above where, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtors The emergence periods vary across businesses and are based on actual financial difficulties, a concession has been granted to the debtor that experience and are reviewed on an annual basis.
This methodology ensures would not otherwise be considered.
Where the concession results in the that the Group captures the loss incurred at the correct balance sheet date.
expected cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate being less These impairment allowances are reviewed and adjusted at least than the loans carrying value, an impairment allowance will be raised.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 99 quarterly by an appropriate charge or release of the stock of impairment The stage in the economic cycle.
Coverage ratios will tend to be lower in allowances based on statistical analysis and management judgement.
the earlier stages of deterioration in credit conditions.
At this stage, retail Where appropriate, the accuracy of this analysis is periodically assessed delinquent balances will be predominantly in the early delinquency cycles against actual losses see Modelling Risk on page 92. and corporate names will have only recently moved to CRL categories.
As As one of the controls to ensure that adequate impairment allowances such balances attract a lower impairment requirement, the CRL coverage are held, movements in impairment allowances to individual names with ratio will be lower.
total impairment of more than 10m are presented to the Credit Committee The balance of PPLs to CRLs.
The impairment requirements for PPLs are for agreement.
lower than for CRLs, so the greater the proportion of PPLs, the lower the Monitoring the loan loss rate LLR provides Barclays with one way of PCRL coverage ratio.
measuring the trends in the quality of the loan portfolio at the Group, business and product levels.
At Barclays, the LLR represents the annualised Write-off policies.
The speed with which defaulted assets are written off impairment charges on loans and advances to customers and banks and will affect coverage ratios.
The more quickly assets are written off, the other credit provisions as a percentage of the total, period-end loans and lower the ratios will be, since stock with 100% coverage will tend to roll advances to customers and banks, gross of impairment allowances.
out of PCRL categories more quickly.
The impairment allowance is the aggregate of the identified and unidentified impairment balances.
Impairment allowance coverage, or the Writing-off of assets coverage ratio, is reported at two levels: After an advance has been identified as impaired and is subject to an impairment allowance, the stage may be reached whereby it is concluded Credit risk loans coverage ratio Impairment allowances as a percentage that there is no realistic prospect of further recovery.
Write-off will occur when, of CRL balances.
and to the extent that, the whole or part of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
Potential credit risk loans coverage ratio Impairment allowances as a The timing and extent of write-offs may involve some element of percentage of total CRL & PPL balances.
Nevertheless, a write-off will often be prompted by a specific event, such as the inception of insolvency proceedings or other Appropriate coverage ratios will vary according to the type of product but formal recovery action, which makes it possible to establish that some or can be broadly bracketed under three categories: secured retail home loans: the entire advance is beyond realistic prospect of recovery.
In any event, unsecured and other retail products: and corporate facilities.
Analysis and the position of impaired loans is reviewed at least quarterly to ensure that experience has indicated that, in general, the severity rates for these types of irrecoverable advances are being written off in a prompt and orderly products are typically within the following ranges: manner and in compliance with any local regulations.
Such assets are only written off once all the necessary procedures Secured retail home loans: 5%-20%.
have been completed and the amount of the loss has been determined.
Unsecured and other retail products: 65%-75%.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are written back and hence decrease the amount of the reported loan impairment Corporate facilities: 30%-50%.
charge in the income statement.
In 2009 total write-offs of impaired CRL coverage ratios would therefore be expected to be at or around these financial assets increased by 461m to 3,380m 2008: 2,919m.
levels over a defined period of time.
In principal, a number of factors may affect the Groups coverage ratios, including: The mix of products within total CRL balances.
Coverage ratios will tend to be lower when there is a high proportion of secured retail and corporate balances within total CRLs.
This is due to the fact that the recovery outlook on these types of exposures is typically higher than retail unsecured products with the result that they will have lower impairment requirements.
com annualreport09 Risk management Credit risk management continued Total assets and Barclays Capital credit market assets Analysis of Total Assets Accounting basis Analysis of total assets Sub analysis Cost Debt Reverse Credit Total Fair based Loans and securities and repurchase Equity market a b c d e assets value measure Derivatives advances other bills agreements securities Other assets Assets as at 31.12.09 m m m m m m m m m m Cash and balances at central banks 81,483 81,483 81,483 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,5931,593 1,593 Treasury and other eligible bills 9,9269,926 9,926 Debt securities 116,594116,594 116,594 1,186 Equity securities 19,602 19,602 19,602 Traded loans 2,962 2,962 2,962 f Commodities 2,260 2,260 2,260 Trading portfolio assets 151,344151,344 2,962126,520 19,6022,2601,186 Financial assets designated at fair value Loans and advances 22,39022,390 22,390 6,941 Debt securities 4,0074,007 4,007 Equity securities 6,256 6,256 6,256 g Other financial assets 8,6588,658 557 7,757 344 Held for own account 41,311 41,311 22,947 4,007 7,757 6,256 344 6,941 Held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment h contracts 1,257 1,257 1,257 Derivative financial instruments 416,815416,815 416,815 2,304 Loans and advances to banks 41,135 41,135 41,135 Loans and advances to customers 420,224 420,224420,224 15,186 Debt securities 43,88843,888 43,888 535 Equity securities 6,676 6,676 6,676 Treasury and other eligible bills 5,919 5,919 5,919 Available for sale financial instruments 56,48356,483 49,807 6,676535 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 143,431 143,431 143,431 Other assets 23,8531,20722,646 23,8531,200 Total assets as at 31.12.09 1,378,929 668,417 710,512 416,815 487,268 180,334 151,188 32,534 110,790 27,352 Total assets as at 31.12.08 2,052,980 1,356,614 696,366 984,802 542,118 224,692 137,637 39,173 124,558 41,208 Notes a Further analysis of loans and advances is on pages 96 to 107. b Further analysis of debt securities and other bills is on page 119. c Reverse repurchase agreements comprise primarily short-term cash lending with assets pledged by counterparties securing the loan.
d Equity securities comprise primarily equity securities determined by available quoted prices in active markets.
e Further analysis of Barclays Capital credit market exposures is on pages 109 to 118.
Undrawn commitments of 257m 2008: 531m are off-balance sheet and therefore not included in the table above.
This is a change in presentation from 31st December 2008, which reflected certain loan facilities originated post 1st July 2007. f Commodities primarily consists of physical inventory positions.
g These instruments consist primarily of loans with embedded derivatives and reverse repurchase agreements designated at fair value.
h Financial assets designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have not been further analysed as the Group is not exposed to the risks inherent in these assets.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 101 Loans and advances to customers and banks This was partially offset by a rise in loans and advances to customers across Total loans and advances to customers and banks net of impairment the majority of retail business units, notably in UK Retail Bank due to growth allowance fell 10% to 487,268m 31st December 2008: 542,118m.
in the UK Home Finance portfolio.
Loans and advances at amortised cost were 461,359m 31st December 2008: 509,522m and loans and advances at fair value were 25,909m Loans and advances held at fair value 31st December 2008: 32,596m.
Barclays Capital loans and advances held at fair value were 12,835m Total loans and advances to customers and banks gross of impairment 31st December 2008: 19,630m.
Included within this balance is 6,941m allowances fell by 43,941m 9% to 472,155m 31st December 2008: relating to credit market exposures, the majority of which are commercial 516,096m due to an 18% reduction in the wholesale portfolios, real estate loans.
The balance of 5,894m primarily comprises financial principally in: institutions and manufacturing loans.
Barclays Commercial Bank loans and advances held at fair value split Barclays Capital, due to a decrease in the cash collateral held against between property, business and services and Government sectors, were derivative trades, a reduction in non-UK lending and a decrease in the value 13,074m 31st December 2008: 12,966m.
The fair value of these loans of other currencies relative to Sterling.
This was partially offset by increases and any movements are matched by offsetting fair value movements on in lending due to restructuring of credit market assets and a reclassification hedging instruments.
of previously held for trading assets to loans and advances: and Barclays Commercial Bank, due to reduced customer demand.
102 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Credit risk management continued Impairment Charges The impairment charge in Global Retail and Commercial Banking Impairment charges on loans and advances increased 50% 2,445m to increased by 85% 2,473m to 5,395m 2008: 2,922m as charges rose 7,358m 2008: 4,913m.
The increase was primarily due to economic in all portfolios, reflecting deteriorating credit conditions across all regions.
deterioration and portfolio maturation, currency movements and The loan loss rate for 2009 was 185bps 2008: 99bps.
methodology enhancements, partially offset by a contraction in loan In Investment Banking and Investment Management, impairment balances.
As a result of this increase in impairment and the fall in loans was broadly unchanged at 1,949m 2008: 1,980m.
The loan loss rate and advances, the impairment charges as a percentage of period end for 2009 was 109bps 2008: 90bps.
Group total loans and advances loan loss rate increased to 156bps The impairment charge against available for sale assets and reverse 31st December 2008: 95bps.
When measured against constant 2008 repurchase agreements increased by 41% 207m to 713m 2008: 506m, year-end loans and advances balances and impairment at average 2008 driven by impairment against credit market exposures.
foreign exchange rates, the loan loss rate for the period was 135bps.
Impairment Charges and Other Credit Provisions Year Year Ended Ended 31.12.09 31.12.08 m m Impairment charges on loans and advances 7,330 4,584 Charges in respect of undrawn facilities and guarantees 28 329 Impairment charges on loans and advances 7,358 4,913 Impairment charges on reverse repurchase agreements 43 124 Impairment charges on available for sale assets 670 382 Impairment charges and other credit provisions 8,071 5,419 Impairment Charges by Business Reverse Loans and Available for repurchase advances sale assets agreements Total m m m m Year Ended 31.12.2009 Global Retail and Commercial Banking 5,395 18 5,413 UK Retail Banking 936 936 Barclays Commercial Bank 960 14 974 Barclaycard 1,798 1,798 GRCB Western Europe 663 4 667 GRCB Emerging Markets 471 471 GRCB Absa 567 567 Investment Banking and Investment Management 1,949 650 43 2,642 a Barclays Capital 1,898 650 43 2,591 Barclays Wealth 51 51 Head Office Functions and Other Operations 14 2 16 Total Impairment charges 7,358 670 43 8,071 Year Ended 31.12.2008 Global Retail and Commercial Banking 2,922 2,922 UK Retail Banking 602 602 Barclays Commercial Bank 414 414 Barclaycard 1,097 1,097 GRCB Western Europe 297 297 GRCB Emerging Markets 165 165 GRCB Absa 347 347 Investment Banking and Investment Management 1,980 363 124 2,467 a Barclays Capital 1,936 363 124 2,423 Barclays Wealth 44 44 Head Office Functions and Other Operations 11 19 30 Total Impairment charges 4,913 382 124 5,419 Note a Credit market related impairment charges within Barclays Capital comprised 1,205m 2008: 1,517m against loans and advances, 464m 2008: 192m against available for sale assets and nil 2008: 54m against reverse repurchase agreements.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 103 Credit Risk Loans Potential Credit Risk Loans The Groups Credit Risk Loans CRLs rose 43% to 22,388m As a result of the increases in CRLs and PPLs, Group Potential Credit Risk 31st December 2008: 15,700m in 2009.
Balances were higher across Loan PCRL balances rose 42% to 25,756m 31st December 2008: Retail Home Loans, Retail Unsecured and Other and Corporate and 18,156m.
Wholesale exposures reflecting the deterioration in credit conditions in the PCRL balances rose in Retail Home Loans by 34% to 3,739m past year across Barclays areas of operations.
The most notable increases 31st December 2008: 2,795m and in Retail Unsecured and Other were in the international businesses in Global Retail and Commercial portfolios by 59% to 8,296m 31st December 2008: 5,210m as Banking, with GRCB Western Europe increasing the most as credit delinquency rates rose across a number of portfolios, particularly in the UK, conditions deteriorated in Spain, Italy and Portugal.
However, the rate of US, Spain and South Africa.
increase to the Group numbers has fallen during each quarter of 2009 from Total PCRL balances in the Corporate and Wholesale portfolios 17% in Q1 09 to 5% in Q4 09. increased by 35% to 13,721m 31st December 2008: 10,151m after a CRLs in Retail Home Loans increased by 1,076m 43% to 3,604m number of customers migrated into the CRL and PPL categories, reflecting 31st December 2008: 2,528m and in Retail Unsecured and Other higher default probabilities in the deteriorating global wholesale portfolios by 2,757m 55% to 7,737m 31st December 2008: 4,980m environment.
as credit conditions deteriorated and arrears balances rose in a number of regions, notably in: Absa Home Finance and Cards, GRCB Western Europe, Impairment Allowances and Coverage Ratios particularly in Spain and Italy: Barclaycard US cards: and in UK Retail Banking Impairment allowances increased 64% to 10,796m 31st December 2008: unsecured lending.
CRLs also increased in GRCB Western Europe following 6,574m, reflecting increases across the majority of businesses as credit the purchase of the Citigroup cards portfolio in Portugal in December 2009. conditions deteriorated during the year.
CRLs in the Corporate and Wholesale portfolios rose 35% to 11,047m Retail impairment allowances rose by 99% in Retail Home Loans to 639m 31st December 2008: 8,192m.
CRL balances were higher in all 31st December 2008: 321m and by 61% in Retail Unsecured and Other businesses, as economic conditions led to deterioration across default portfolios to 5,492m 31st December 2008: 3,418m.
The CRL coverage grades and a rise in impairment in most wholesale portfolios.
The largest ratio in Retail Home Loans increased to 17.7% 31st December 2008: increases were in GRCB Western Europe, Barclays Capital and Barclays 12.7%, and the PCRL coverage ratio increased to 17.1% 31st December Commercial Bank.
The CRL coverage ratio in Retail Unsecured and Others portfolios increased to 71.0% 31st December 2008: 68.6%.
The PCRL Potential Problem Loans coverage ratio increased to 66.2% 31st December 2008: 65.6%.
Balances within the Groups Potential Problem Loans PPLs category In the Corporate and Wholesale portfolios, impairment allowances rose by 37% to 3,368m 31st December 2008: 2,456m.
The principal increased 65% to 4,665m 31st December 2008: 2,835m.
The CRL movements were in the Corporate and Wholesale portfolios, where PPLs coverage ratio rose to 42.2% 31st December 2008: 34.6%, and the PCRL rose 715m to 2,674m 31st December 2008: 1,959m.
PPL balances coverage ratio rose to 34.0% 31st December 2008: 27.9%.
increased in the retail portfolios to 694m 31st December 2008: 497m The CRL coverage ratios in Retail Home Loans, Retail Unsecured and as balances increased in the Retail Unsecured and Other portfolios.
This Other and Corporate and Wholesale portfolios remain within the ranges was partially offset by a fall in PPL balances in Retail Home Loans.
which are the typical severity rates for these types of products.
As a result of the movements across these three portfolios, the Groups CRL coverage ratio increased to 48.2% 31st December 2008: 41.9%, and its PCRL coverage ratio also increased to 41.9% 31st December 2008: 36.2%.
com annualreport09 Risk management Credit risk management continued Included within corporate and government lending and other wholesale Wholesale Credit Risk lending portfolios are 5,646m 31st December 2008: 7,674m of loans backed by retail mortgage collateral classified within financial institutions.
Loans and Advances to customers and banks in the wholesale portfolios decreased by 55,202m 18% to 259,306m, primarily as a result of a Loans and advances fell in Barclays Commercial Bank by 8,064m 12% to 60,840m, due to reduced customer demand.
Balances fell in 42,972m 21% fall in Barclays Capital to 165,624m, due to a decrease in the cash collateral held against derivative trades, a reduction in non-UK both GRCB Western Europe and GRCB Emerging Markets, which was due, in part, to the depreciation of various currencies across the regions lending and a decrease in the value of Sterling relative to other currencies.
This was partially offset by increases in lending due to restructuring of credit against Sterling.
The increase of 1,429m 17% of balances in GRCB Absa was due to the appreciation of the Rand against Sterling during 2009. market assets and a reclassification of previously held for trading assets to loans and advances.
In Rand terms, balances were stable.
In the wholesale portfolios, the impairment charge against loans and The corporate and government lending portfolio declined 30% to 53,305m 31st December 2008: 76,556m primarily due to reductions advances rose by 861m 33% to 3,441m 2008: 2,580m mainly due to increases in: in non-UK lending, a decrease in the value of other currencies relative to Sterling and the repayment of leveraged finance loans.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 105 GRCB Western Europe, reflecting the economic deterioration in Spain As we enter 2010, the principal uncertainties relating to the which has impacted the commercial, construction and SME portfolios in performance of the wholesale portfolios are: particular, together with the appreciation of the average value of the Euro the extent and sustainability of economic recovery and asset prices in the against Sterling: and UK, US, Spain and South Africa as governments consider how and when GRCB Emerging Markets as credit conditions continued to deteriorate to withdraw stimulus packages: resulting in a small number of higher value single name charges and the the potential for single name risk and for idiosyncratic losses in different appreciation of the average value of a number of currencies against sectors and geographies where credit positions are sensitive to economic Sterling.
downturn: Impairment in Barclays Capital of 1,898m 2008: 1,936m was broadly possible additional deterioration in our remaining credit market exposures, in line with 2008, as a fall in the impairment charge against credit market including commercial real estate and leveraged finance: and exposures was partially offset by a rise in the impairment charge against non-credit market exposures.
the potential impact of deteriorating sovereign credit quality.
The loan loss rate across the Groups wholesale portfolios for 2009 was 133bps 2008: 82bps, reflecting the rise in impairment and the 18% reduction in wholesale loans and advances.
Analysis of Barclays capital wholesale loans and advances at amortised cost Gross Loans and CRLs % of loans and Impairment advances net Credit risk gross loans Impairment Loan loss advances allowance of impairment loans and advances charge rates m m m m % m basis points Loans and advances to banks As at 31.12.09 Cash collateral and settlement balances 15,893 15,893 Interbank lending 21,722 61 21,661 57 0.3 14 6 Loans and advances to customers Corporate and Government lending 54,342 1,037 53,305 2,198 4.0 1,115 205 ABS CDO Super Senior 3,541 1,610 1,931 3,541 100.0 714 2,016 Other wholesale lending 30,347 317 30,030 615 2.0 55 18 Cash collateral and settlement balances 39,779 39,779 Total 165,624 3,025 162,599 6,411 3.9 1,898 115 As at 31.12.08 Cash collateral and settlement balances 19,264 19,264 Interbank lending 24,086 51 24,035 48 0.2 40 17 Loans and advances to customers Corporate and Government lending 77,042 486 76,556 1,100 1.4 305 40 ABS CDO Super Senior 4,117 1,013 3,104 4,117 100.0 1,383 3,359 Other wholesale lending 23,933 246 23,687 478 2.0 208 87 Cash collateral and settlement balances 60,154 60,154 Total 208,596 1,796 206,800 5,743 2.8 1,936 93 106 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Credit risk management continued economic conditions, particularly unemployment, deteriorated across all Retail Credit Risk regions.
Policy and methodology enhancements, currency movements and portfolio maturation also had an impact.
The largest increase was in Loans and advances to customers in the retail portfolios increased by 11,261m 6% to 212,849m.
Balances grew in most businesses with the Barclaycard, which increased by 695m 64% to 1,781m, mainly driven by higher delinquencies and deteriorating economic conditions in the United largest increase in UK Retail Banking, which increased by 4,981m 5% to 101,064m primarily in the UK Home Finance portfolio.
There was modest Kingdom and the United States as well as portfolio maturation.
The increase of 334m 55% to 936m in UK Retail Banking was primarily due to lower growth in balances to local businesses but a moderate decline in balances relating to unsecured loans and overdrafts.
GRCB Western Europe recoveries and policy and methodology enhancements.
Impairment charges in GRCB Western Europe and GRCB Emerging Markets were increased by 2,517m 6%, which primarily reflected growth in Italy and Portugal following the expansion of the franchise, principally across impacted by increased delinquency rates as credit conditions deteriorated particularly in Spain and India.
Impairment increased in GRCB Absa as a mortgages and cards.
This growth was partially offset by the appreciation of the Euro against Sterling.
The increase of 2,611m 11% of balances result of high delinquency levels due to consumer indebtedness and increased debt counselling balances following the enactment of the 2007 in GRCB Absa was due to the appreciation of the Rand against Sterling during 2009.
In Rand terms, balances fell by 3%.
Balances in GRCB National Credit Act.
The loan loss rate across the Groups retail portfolios for 2009 was Emerging Markets were 483m 12% lower, in part reflecting movements in Sterling against local currencies.
As we enter 2010, the principal uncertainties relating to the Total home loans to retail customers rose by 9,254m 7% to 149,099m 31st December 2008: 139,845m.
The UK Home Finance performance of the Groups retail portfolios are: portfolios within UK Retail Banking grew 7% to 87,943m 31st December the extent and sustainability of economic recovery in the UK, US, Spain 2008: 82,303m.
and South Africa as governments consider how and when to withdraw Unsecured retail credit credit card and unsecured loans portfolios fell stimulus packages: 7% to 37,733m 31st December 2008: 40,437m.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 107 the speed and extent of possible rises in interest rates in the UK, US and Three-month arrears as at 31st December 2009 were 1.04% for UK eurozone: and mortgages 31st December 2008: 0.91%, 0.63% for Spain 31st December 2008: 0.51%, as credit conditions deteriorated and 4.07% for South Africa the possibility of any further falls in residential property prices in the UK, 31st December 2008: 2.11%, due to consumer indebtedness and South Africa and Spain.
increased debt counselling balances following the enactment of the 2007 National Credit Act.
Home Loans The Groups principal home loans portfolios continued largely to be in the UK Repossessions Retail Banking Home Finance business 59% of the Groups total, GRCB The number of properties in repossession in UK Home Loans remained Western Europe 23% primarily Spain and Italy, and South Africa 14%.
At the end of 2009 there were 196 properties in The credit quality of the principal home loan portfolios reflected low LTV repossession, 40 higher than the previous year 31st December 2008: 156. lending.
Using current valuations, the average LTV of the portfolios as at 31st December 2009 was 43% for UK Home Finance 31st December 2008: Credit Cards and Unsecured Loans 40%, 51% for Spain 31st December 2008: 48% and 42% for South Africa The Groups largest card and unsecured loan portfolios are in the UK 56% of 31st December 2008: 41%.
The average LTV for new mortgage business Group total.
The US cards portfolio accounts for 20% of the total exposure, during 2009 at origination was 48% for UK Home Finance 31st December where Barclaycards portfolio is largely prime credit quality FICO score of 2008: 47%, 55% for Spain 31st December 2008: 63% and 53% for 660 or more.
The percentage of balances with Arrears rates in the UK Cards portfolio rose during the year to 1.79% an LTV of over 85% based on current values was 14% for UK Home Finance 31st December 2008: 1.57%, reflecting the impact of the economic 31st December 2008: 10%, 7% for Spain 31st December 2008: 5% and downturn.
Repayment Plan balances grew to support government initiatives 27% for South Africa 31st December 2008: 25%.
In the UK, buy-to-let to supply relief to customers experiencing financial difficulty.
As a mortgages comprised 6% of the total stock as at 31st December 2009. percentage of the portfolio, three-month arrears rates rose during 2009 to Impairment charges rose across the home loans portfolios, reflecting 2.74% for UK Loans 31st December 2008: 2.28% and 3.31% for US Cards the impact of lower house prices as well as some increases in arrears rates.
e Defined as total 90 day delinquent balances as a percentage of outstandings.
Spain: GRCB Western Europe Spanish retail home finance portfolio: and South Africa: GRCB Absa retail home finance portfolio.
Includes accounts on repayment plans but excludes the balances in the legal book.
f UK Cards includes Branded Cards and Goldfish.
b Spain mark to market methodology as per Bank of Spain requirements.
c South Africa mark to market methodology will be revised in 2010 to incorporate additional g UK Loans based on Barclayloans and Personal Loans from Barclaycard.
h Excludes Business Card: December 2009 includes US Airways.
108 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Credit risk management continued portfolio and the expected losses over the coming 12 months in the Expected loss performing portfolio.
EL for the performing portfolio is also based on Exposure at Default EAD and downturn LGD.
For these reasons, EL will Basel II, introduced in 2008, includes, for those aspects of an entitys exposures that are on an Internal Ratings Based IRB approach, a statistical generally exceed regulatory impairment allowance.
As noted above, this excess is deducted from capital.
measure of credit losses known as Expected Loss EL.
EL is an estimate of the average loss amount from: In addition, whilst the regulatory impairment allowance is based on the impairment allowance for loans and advances, there are differences defaulted and past due items at the reported date i. e. incurred losses : and between these amounts in two main respects.
Firstly, the regulatory impairment allowance includes valuation adjustments on available for sale modelled default events over a 12-month forward period for performing exposures.
exposures and exposures designated at fair value.
Secondly, it excludes impairment held against securitisation exposures.
On the performing portfolios, EL is calculated as the product of Probability The principal drivers of the increase in EL during the year ended of Default PD, Exposure at Default EAD and Loss Given Default LGD.
31st December 2009 are as follows: EL is assessed against both the performing and non-performing parts UK Retail Banking EL increased 445m due to a deteriorating economic of the Groups portfolios.
environment coupled with methodology enhancements.
EL considers average credit conditions, generally uses a through-theBarclays Commercial Bank EL decreased by 43m, driven by the change cycle PD and incorporates an adjustment to LGD which represents in treatment of defaulted assets partially offset by an increase in the economic conditions in a downturn.
The aspect of an entitys exposures that are not on an IRB approach will Barclaycard EL increase of 351m was driven by the combination of an continue to be measured on the standardised approach, against which additional roll-out of IRB during the period and increased levels of retained Basel II does not assess EL.
For this purpose, the regulatory impairment non-performing assets during the recovery period.
allowance on IRB and standardised portfolios gives an indication of credit losses on the standardised book.
GRCB Western Europe EL increased to 243m following the migration of Spanish card portfolio and Italian and Portuguese mortgage portfolios EL is reflected in the calculation of capital supply, such that, for IRB portfolios, 50% of the excess of EL over total impairment allowances and onto the IRB approach.
valuation adjustments is deducted from each of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital.
GRCB Absa EL increased by 466m, mostly due to exchange rate If total impairment allowances and valuation adjustments exceed EL, then movements, higher delinquency levels and a deterioration in credit quality this excess can be added to Tier 2 capital.
As at 31st December 2009, EL of the performing book.
exceeded total impairment allowances and valuation adjustments by 50m Barclays Capital EL increase of 910m was primarily driven by defaulted 2008: 317m.
There are several differences in the calculation of the regulatory counterparties and an increase in IRB coverage, partially offset by a reduction in exposures due to foreign exchange movements.
impairment allowance and EL, with these measures representing different views of losses and, as such, they are not directly comparable.
These Further exposures will be moved onto the IRB approach during 2010. differences include the fact that regulatory impairment allowance reflects Additional information with respect to Expected Loss will be provided defaulted and past due items at the reporting date i. e. incurred losses, as part of our Pillar 3 disclosures, available at the end of March 2010. whereas EL includes both the best estimate of losses in the non-performing Total EL on IRB portfolios As at As at 31.12.09 31.12.08 m m UK Retail Banking 1,703 1,258 Barclays Commercial Bank 776 819 Barclaycard 1,261 910 GRCB Western Europe 243 a GRCB Emerging Markets GRCB Absa 1,158 692 Barclays Capital 2,467 1,557 Barclays Wealth 23 Head Office Functions & Other Operations 11 1 Total EL on IRB portfolios 7,642 5,237 Total regulatory impairment allowance on IRB portfolios 7,592 4,672 Total regulatory impairment allowance on standardised portfolios 4,693 2,560 Note a Not currently on the IRB approach.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 109 and a decrease of 4,226m due to currency and other movements.
In Barclays Capital credit market exposures addition, on 16th September 2009, 5,087m credit market assets and 2,367m other assets were sold to Protium Finance LP, funded by a Barclays Capitals credit market exposures as at 31st December 2009 primarily relate to commercial real estate and leveraged finance.
These include 7,669m loan extended by Barclays.
The loan balance at 31st December 2009 of 7,859m includes accrued interest.
positions subject to fair value movements in the income statement and positions that are classified as loans and advances and as available for sale.
In the year ended 31st December 2009, gross writedowns comprised 4,417m 2008: 6,290m of fair value losses through income and The balances at and gross writedowns to 31st December 2009 are set out below: 1,669m 2008: 1,763m of impairment charges.
Gross writedowns included 2,082m 2008: 5,584m against US residential mortgage During the year ended 31st December 2009, these positions have been reduced by 14,130m to 27,609m 31st December 2008: 41,739m, positions, 3,007m 2008: 1,488m against commercial mortgage positions, and 997m 2008: 981m against other credit market positions.
including net sales and paydowns of 6,590m, gross writedowns of 6,086m a Barclays Capital credit market exposures As at 31st December Year ended 31.12.09 Fair value Impairment Gross 2009 2008 2009 2008 losses charge losses Notes $m $m m m m m m US Residential Mortgages ABS CDO Super Senior A1 3,127 4,526 1,931 3,104 714 714 Other US sub-prime & Alt-A A2 2,254 11,269 1,392 7,729 531 555 1,086 Monoline wrapped US RMBS A3 9 2,389 6 1,639 282 282 Commercial Mortgages Commercial real estate loans and properties B1 12,525 16,882 7,734 11,578 2,466 2,466 Commercial mortgage-backed securities B1 762 1,072 471 735 44 44 Monoline wrapped CMBS B2 49 2,703 30 1,854 497 497 Other Credit Market b Leveraged Finance C1 8,919 13,193 5,507 9,048 396 396 SIVs, SIV-Lites and CDPCs C2 896 1,622 553 1,113 69 4 73 Monoline wrapped CLO and other C3 3,443 7,202 2,126 4,939 528 528 Total exposures 31,984 60,858 19,750 41,739 Total gross writedowns 4,417 1,669 6,086 Loan to Protium D 12,727 7,859 Notes a As the majority of positions are denominated in US Dollars, the positions above are shown in both US Dollars and Sterling.
110 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Credit risk management continued Analysis of Barclays Capital credit market assets by asset class Financial assets Trading designated at Available portfolio fair value Derivative Loans and for sale Total Total assets debt loans and financial advances to debt Other as at as at securities advances instruments customers securities assets 31.12.09 31.12.08 m m m m m m m m ABS CDO Super Senior 1,931 1,931 3,104 Other US sub-prime 3 52 244 24 209 532 3,441 Alt-A 323 211 326 860 4,288 RMBS monoline wrapped US RMBS 6 6 1,639 Commercial real estate loans 6,534 6,534 11,578 Commercial real estate properties 1,200 1,200 Commercial mortgage backed securities 860 389 471 735 Monoline wrapped CMBS 30 30 1,854 a Leveraged finance 5,250 5,250 8,517 SIVs and SIV-lites 355 53 122 530 963 CDPCs 23 23 150 Monoline wrapped CLO and other 2,126 2,126 4,939 Loan to Protium 7,859 7,859 Total 1,186 6,941 2,304 15,186 535 1,200 27,352 41,208 Note a Further analysis of Barclays Capital credit market exposures is on pages 109 and 110.
This is a change in presentation from 31st December 2008, which reflected certain loan facilities originated post 1st July 2007. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 111 A.
During the year, ABS CDO Super Senior positions reduced by 1,173m to 1,931m 31st December 2008: 3,104m.
Positions are stated after writedowns and charges of 714m incurred in 2009 2008: 1,461m.
There was a decline of 290m resulting from depreciation in the value of the US Dollar against Sterling and amortisation of 169m in the year.
Note a Marks above reflect the gross positions after impairment and subordination.
112 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Credit risk management continued A2.
Other US Sub-Prime and Alt-A Other US Sub-prime As at As at Marks at Marks at 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 m m % % Whole loans 1,565 72 Sub-prime securities net of hedges 212 929 38 25 Other positions with underlying sub-prime collateral: Derivatives 244 643 96 87 Loans 76 195 22 70 Real Estate 109 46 Total Other US Sub-Prime 532 3,441 Alt-A Whole Loans 776 67 Alt-A Securities 649 3,112 40 16 Residuals 2 6 Derivative positions with underlying Alt-A collateral 211 398 99 100 Total 860 4,288 Total Other US Sub-Prime and Alt-A 1,392 7,729 The majority of Other US sub-prime and Alt-A positions are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
The balance reduced by 6,337m to 1,392m 31st December 2008: 7,729m, driven by the Protium sale of 2,319m, other net sales, paydowns and other movements of 2,398m and gross losses of 1,086m.
Depreciation of the US Dollar against Sterling resulted in a decline of 534m.
Counterparty derivative positions relating to vehicles which hold sub-prime collateral was 455m 31st December 2008: 1,041m.
These positions largely comprise the most senior obligation of the vehicles.
US Residential Mortgage Backed Securities Wrapped by Monoline Insurers The table below shows RMBS assets where Barclays Capital held protection from monoline insurers at 31st December 2009.
These are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
By rating of the monoline Fair Value Credit of Underlying Fair Value Valuation Net Notional Asset Exposure Adjustment Exposure m m m m m As at 31.12.09 Non-investment grade 56 6 50 44 6 Total 56 6 50 44 6 As at 31.12.08 A BBB 2,567 492 2,075 473 1,602 Non-investment grade 74 8 66 29 37 Total 2,641 500 2,141 502 1,639 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 113 A3.
US Residential Mortgage Backed Securities Wrapped by Monoline Insurers continued The balance reduced by 1,633m to 6m 31st December 2008: 1,639m, reflecting the Protium sale of 1,164m, a credit valuation adjustment of 282m, and currency and other movements of 187m.
Barclays would review claims in the event of default of the underlying assets.
There have been no claims under the monoline insurance contracts as none of the underlying assets defaulted in the year.
The notional value of the assets split by the rating of the underlying asset is shown below.
Commercial Real Estate and Mortgage-Backed Securities Commercial mortgages held at fair value include commercial real estate loans of 6,534m 31st December 2008: 11,578m, commercial real estate properties of 1,200m 31st December 2008: nil, and commercial mortgage-backed securities of 471m 31st December 2008: 735m.
Commercial Real Estate Loans and Properties In the year ended 31st December 2009, the commercial real estate loans and properties balance reduced by 3,844m to 7,734m 31st December 2008: 11,578m.
There were gross losses of 2,466m, of which 1,541m related to the US, 843m to UK and Europe, and 82m to Asia.
There were gross sales and paydowns of 661m comprising 345m in the UK and Europe, 307m in the US, and 9m in Asia, and currency and other movements of 717m.
The commercial real estate loan balances comprised 51% UK and Europe, 44% US and 5% Asia.
One large transaction comprises 25% of the total US commercial real estate loan balance.
The remaining 75% of the US balance comprises 64 transactions.
The remaining weighted average number of years to initial maturity of the US portfolio is 1.2 years 31st December 2008: 1.4 years.
The UK and Europe portfolio is well diversified with 56 transactions at 31st December 2009.
In Europe protection is provided by loan covenants and periodic LTV retests, which cover 83% of the portfolio.
50% of the German balance relates to one transaction secured on residential assets.
com annualreport09 Risk management Credit risk management continued B1.
Commercial Real Estate and Mortgage-Backed Securities continued Commercial Real Estate Loans by Industry As at 31.12.09 As at 31.12.08 Other US Germany Europe UK Asia Total Total m m m m m m m Residential 1,132 1,053 152 102 2,439 3,582 Office 372 251 557 79 79 1,338 3,656 Hotels 614 223 8 1 846 1,633 Retail 54 507 73 30 73 737 957 Industrial 383 105 103 20 11 622 887 Leisure 140 140 233 Land 128 128 232 Mixed Others 169 43 17 55 284 398 Total 2,852 1,959 973 429 321 6,534 11,578 Commercial Real Estate Properties by Industry As at As at 31.12.09 31.12.08 m m Residential 56 Office 927 Hotels 126 Industrial 25 Leisure 33 Land 31 Mixed Others 2 Total 1,200 Included within the commercial real estate properties balance are properties held by Crescent Real Estate Holdings LLC Crescent with a carrying value of 1,001m.
On 19th November 2009, Barclays Capital assumed ownership of Crescent following the completion of a debt restructuring transaction.
a a Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities As at As at Marks at Marks at 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.08 m m % % Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Net of Hedges 471 735 20 21 Note a Marks are based on gross collateral.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 115 B2.
CMBS Wrapped by Monoline Insurers The table below shows commercial mortgage backed security assets where Barclays Capital held protection from monoline insurers at 31st December 2009.
These are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
By rating of the monoline Fair value Credit of underlying Fair value valuation Net Notional asset exposure adjustment exposure m m m m m As at 31.12.09 AAA AA 54 21 33 3 30 Non-investment grade 383 160 223 223 Total 437 181 256 226 30 As at 31.12.08 AAA AA 69 27 42 4 38 A BBB 3,258 1,301 1,957 320 1,637 Non-investment grade 425 181 244 65 179 Total 3,752 1,509 2,243 389 1,854 The balance reduced by 1,824m to 30m 31st December 2008: 1,854m, reflecting the Protium sale of 1,208m, a credit valuation adjustment of 497m, and currency and other movements of 119m.
Claims would become due in the event of default of the underlying assets.
The notional value of the assets split by the current rating of the underlying asset is shown below.
com annualreport09 Risk management Credit risk management continued C. Other Credit Market C1.
Leveraged Finance Leveraged Finance Loans by Region As at As at 31.12.09 31.12.08 m m UK 4,530 4,519 Europe 1,051 1,291 Asia 165 140 US 35 3,213 Total lending and commitments 5,781 9,163 Impairment 274 115 a Net lending and commitments at period end 5,507 9,048 Leveraged finance loans are classified within loans and advances and are stated at amortised cost less impairment.
The table above includes certain loan b facilities originated prior to 1st July 2007, the start of the dislocation in the credit market.
At 31st December 2009, net lending and commitments reduced 3,541m to 5,507m 31st December 2008: 9,048m, following a repayment of 3,056m at par in January 2009, impairment of 396m, and other movements of 89m.
The overall credit performance of the assets remained satisfactory with the majority of the portfolio performing to plan or in line with original stress tolerances.
There were a small number of deteriorating positions on which higher impairment was charged.
SIVs, SIV-Lites and CDPCs SIV and SIV-lite positions comprise liquidity facilities and derivatives.
At 31st December 2009 SIVs and SIV-Lites positions reduced by 433m to 530m 31st December 2008: 963m with a reduced number of counterparties.
There were 72m of gross writedowns in the year.
Credit Derivative Product Companies CDPCs positions at 31st December 2009 reduced by 127m to 23m 31st December 2008: 150m.
CLO and Other Assets Wrapped by Monoline Insurers The table below shows Collateralised Loan Obligations CLOs and other assets where we held protection from monoline insurers at 31st December 2009.
By rating of the monoline Fair value Credit of underlying Fair value valuation Net Notional asset exposure adjustment exposure m m m m m As at 31.12.09 AAA AA 7,336 5,731 1,605 91 1,514 A BBB Non-investment grade: Fair value through profit and loss 1,052 824 228 175 53 Loans and receivables 9,116 7,994 1,122 563 559 Total 17,504 14,549 2,955 829 2,126 As at 31.12.08 AAA AA 8,281 5,854 2,427 55 2,372 A BBB 6,446 4,808 1,638 204 1,434 Non-investment grade 6,148 4,441 1,707 574 1,133 Total 20,875 15,103 5,772 833 4,939 The balance reduced by 2,813m to 2,126m 31st December 2008: 4,939m, reflecting increases in the fair value of the underlying assets of 1,321m, credit valuation adjustments of 528m, the Protium sale of 396m, and currency and other movements of 568m.
On 25th November 2009, 8,027m of the CLO assets wrapped by non-investment grade rated monolines were reclassified to loans and receivables as discussed in Note 51.
At 31st December 2009, the fair value of the transferred assets was 7,994m and the net exposure to monoline insurers was 559m.
The remaining non-investment grade exposure continues to be measured at fair value through profit and loss.
Notes a Includes undrawn commitments of 257m 2008: 531m.
b This is a change of presentation from 31st December 2008, which reflected certain loan facilities originated post 1st July 2007. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 117 The notional value of the assets split by the current rating of the underlying asset is shown below.
The impact of the sale on each class of credit market asset is detailed in each relevant category in sections A to C. As part of the transaction, Barclays extended a 7,669m 10-year loan to Protium, which will be repaid during the term from cash generated by the fund.
The principal terms of the loan are as follows: The loan has a final maturity of ten years, with a rate of return fixed at USD LIBOR plus 2.75%.
Protium is obliged to pay principal and interest equal to the amount of available cash generated by the fund after payment of fund expenses and certain payments to the funds partners.
The loan is secured by a charge over the assets of Protium.
The loan is classified as loans and receivables.
The difference between the size of the loan and assets sold relates to cash and US Treasuries held by Protium.
The increase in the loan balance between 16th September 2009 and 31st December 2009 reflects accrued interest which was received from Protium in January 2010.
The fair value of assets sold to Protium is set out below.
The balances at 31st December 2009 include cash realised from subsequent sales and paydowns.
com annualreport09 Risk management Credit risk management continued DBRS Inc. DBRS, a nationally recognised statistical rating organisation, was engaged to provide a private, point-in-time rating reflecting the specific terms and conditions of the Protium loan as a whole.
In addition point-in-time ratings with respect to gross cumulative cash flows due to Barclays under the loan to Protium, considered in sequential instalments, were also sought Tranched Ratings.
On the transaction date, the loan fair value was assessed as equal to its notional amount.
Subsequently, the obtained ratings were incorporated into an updated transaction date valuation.
This valuation discounted the cash flows at appropriate discount rates determined by Barclays based on the Tranched Ratings.
The calculation produced a value of 7,651m $12,611m.
The difference to the original valuation was 18m $30m, which has been recorded as a loss on sale in the period.
The Tranched Ratings and loan valuation are summarised in the table below: Tranched Rating Cash Weighted Spread to Net present flows average life LIBOR value m years bps m AAA 2,092 3.8 52 2,015 AA 1,464 4.3 80 1,385 AA AA- 354 4.3 108 128 330 A 642 2.6 169 606 BBB BBB- 1,098 4.7 260 355 955 BB BB 1,021 2.1 451 546 915 B BCCC 1,886 3.4 700 785 870 1,445 Total 8,557 282 7,651 The loan valuation was performed by Barclays and, of the information disclosed above, only the Tranched Ratings were provided by DBRS.
The Tranched Ratings are as of 15th September 2009 and are based on a scenario in which the portfolio of assets sold to Protium is static, with no subsequent sales or additional purchases.
A single rating of CCC low, being the Tranched Rating for the lowest rated cash flows, has been assigned to the loan as a whole by DBRS.
This rating addresses the ultimate payment of cumulative principal and interest under the terms and conditions of the Protium loan and it being advanced as a single loan, as opposed to being structurally tranched.
The single rating of CCC low is also as of 15th September 2009 and is based on a scenario in which the portfolio of assets sold to Protium is static, with no subsequent sales or additional purchases.
The loan to Protium was assessed for impairment by the Group as at 31st December 2009 in line with its impairment policy.
This analysis found that there was no impairment as at 31st December 2009. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 119 Debt securities and other bills The following table presents an analysis of the credit quality of debt and similar securities, other than loans held within the Group.
Securities rated as investment grade amounted to 91.8% of the portfolio 2008: 91.6%.
com annualreport09 Risk management Credit risk management continued Interest rate derivatives Derivatives The Groups principal interest rate related contracts are interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, basis swaps, caps, floors and swaptions.
Included The use of derivatives and their sale to customers as risk management products are an integral part of the Groups trading activities.
These in this product category are transactions that include combinations of these features.
instruments are also used to manage the Groups own exposure to fluctuations in interest, exchange rates and commodity and equity prices An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange fixed rate and floating rate interest by means of periodic payments based as part of its asset and liability management activities.
Barclays Capital manages the trading derivatives book as part of the upon a notional principal amount and the interest rates defined in the contract.
Certain agreements combine interest rate and foreign currency market risk book.
This includes foreign exchange, interest rate, equity, commodity and credit derivatives.
The policies regarding market risk swap transactions, which may or may not include the exchange of principal amounts.
A basis swap is a form of interest rate swap, in which both parties management are outlined in the market risk management section on pages 122 to 126. exchange interest payments based on floating rates, where the floating rates are based upon different underlying reference indices.
In a forward rate Derivative instruments are contracts whose value is derived from one or more underlying financial instruments or indices defined in the contract.
agreement, two parties agree a future settlement of the difference between an agreed rate and a future interest rate, applied to a notional principal They include swaps, forward rate agreements, futures, options and combinations of these instruments and primarily affect the Groups net amount.
The settlement, which generally occurs at the start of the contract period, is the discounted present value of the payment that would otherwise interest income, net trading income, net fee and commission income and derivative assets and liabilities.
Notional amounts of the contracts are not be made at the end of that period.
recorded on the balance sheet.
The Group participates both in exchange traded and over the counter Credit derivatives The Groups principal credit derivative-related contracts include credit derivatives markets.
default swaps and total return swaps.
A credit derivative is an arrangement whereby the credit risk of an asset the reference asset is transferred from Exchange traded derivatives The Group buys and sells financial instruments that are traded or cleared on the buyer to the seller of protection.
A credit default swap is a contract where the protection seller receives an exchange, including interest rate swaps, futures and options on futures.
Holders of exchange traded instruments provide margin daily with cash or premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to make payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event.
Credit events other security at the exchange, to which the holders look for ultimate settlement.
normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a reference asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
Over the counter traded derivatives A total return swap is an instrument whereby the seller of protection receives the full return of the asset, including both the income and change in The Group also buys and sells financial instruments that are traded over the counter, rather than on a recognised exchange.
the capital value of the asset.
The buyer in return receives a predetermined amount.
These instruments range from commoditised transactions in derivative markets, to trades where the specific terms are tailored to the requirements Equity derivatives of the Groups customers.
In many cases, industry standard documentation is used, most commonly in the form of a master agreement, with individual The Groups principal equity-related contracts are equity and stock index swaps and options including warrants, which are equity options listed transaction confirmations.
The existence of a signed master agreement is intended to give the Group protection in situations where a counterparty on an exchange.
An equity swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange periodic payments, based upon a notional principal amount, is in default.
with one side paying fixed or floating interest and the other side paying based on the actual return of the stock or stock index.
An equity option Foreign exchange derivatives The Groups principal exchange rate related contracts are forward foreign provides the buyer with the right, but not the obligation, either to purchase or sell a specified stock, basket of stocks or stock index at a specified price exchange contracts, currency swaps and currency options.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are agreements to buy or sell a specified quantity of or level on or before a specified date.
The Group also enters into fund-linked derivatives, being swaps and options whose underlyings include mutual foreign currency, usually on a specified future date at an agreed rate.
A currency swap generally involves the exchange, or notional exchange, funds, hedge funds, indices and multi-asset portfolios.
of equivalent amounts of two currencies and a commitment to exchange interest periodically until the principal amounts are re-exchanged on a Commodity derivatives The Groups principal commodity-related derivative contracts are swaps, future date.
Currency options provide the buyer with the right, but not the obligation, options, forwards and futures.
The main commodities transacted are base metals, precious metals, oil and oil-related products, power and natural gas.
either to purchase or sell a fixed amount of a currency at a specified exchange rate on or before a future date.
As compensation for assuming the option risk, the option writer generally receives a premium at the start of the option period.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 121 The tables below set out the fair values of the derivative assets together with the value of those assets subject to enforceable counterparty netting arrangements for which the Group holds offsetting liabilities and eligible collateral.
Derivative assets would be 374bn 2008: 917bn lower than reported under IFRS if counterparty or collateral netting were allowed.
Exposure relating to derivatives, repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, stock borrowing and loan transactions is calculated using internal, FSA approved models.
These are used as the basis to assess both regulatory capital and capital appetite and are managed on a daily basis.
The methodology encompasses all relevant factors to enable the current value to be calculated and the future value to be estimated, for example: current market rates, market volatility and legal documentation including collateral rights.
122 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Market risk management Market Risk is the risk that Barclays earnings or capital, or its ability to Control Framework.
Oversight and support is provided to the business by the meet business objectives, will be adversely affected by changes in the Market Risk Director, assisted by the Group Market Risk team.
The Market level or volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, credit Risk Committee reviews, approves, and makes recommendations concerning spreads, commodity prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates.
the market risk profile across Barclays including risk appetite, limits and The majority of market risk exposure resides in Barclays Capital.
The Committee meets monthly and is chaired by the Market Risk Barclays is also exposed to market risk through non-traded interest rate Director.
Attendees include the Chief Risk Officer, respective business risk risk and the pension fund.
managers and senior managers from Group Market Risk.
Barclays market risk objectives are to: In Barclays Capital, the Head of Market Risk is responsible for implementing the Market Risk Control Framework.
Day to day responsibility Understand and control market risk by robust measurement and the for market risk lies with the senior management of Barclays Capital, setting of limits.
supported by the Market Risk Management team that operates Facilitate business growth within a controlled and transparent risk independently of the trading areas.
Oversight is provided by Group management framework.
Daily market risk reports are produced for Barclays Capital as a whole Ensure traded market risk resides primarily in Barclays Capital.
as well as for the main business areas.
These are sent to Group Market Risk Minimise non-traded market risk.
for review and inclusion in the daily market risk report.
The risks covered include interest rate, credit spread, commodity, equity and foreign exchange.
A more detailed trading market risk presentation is produced fortnightly Organisation and structure and discussed at the Barclays Capital Traded Positions Risk Review meeting.
The Board approves market risk appetite for trading and non-trading The attendees at this meeting include senior trading and risk managers from activities.
The Market Risk Director is responsible for the Market Risk Control Barclays Capital and Group Market Risk.
Framework and, under delegated authority from the Chief Risk Officer, sets In each of the six main Global Retail and Commercial Banking businesses a limit framework within the context of the approved market risk appetite.
UK Retail Banking, Barclays Commercial Bank, Barclaycard, Western Europe, A daily market risk report summarises Barclays market risk exposures Emerging Markets and Absa, Group Treasury and Wealth, there is a dedicated against agreed limits.
This daily report is sent to the Chief Risk Officer, the market risk department.
The head of each department is responsible for Market Risk Director, the Group Finance Director and the appropriate implementing the Market Risk Control Framework, with oversight provided Business Risk Directors.
A combination of daily and monthly risk reports are The head of each business, assisted by the business risk management sent to Group Market Risk for review and inclusion in the daily market risk team, is accountable for all market risks associated with its activities.
A risk summary is also presented at Market Risk Committee and the business is responsible for the identification, measurement, management, respective Asset and Liability Committees.
control and reporting of market risk as outlined in the Barclays Market Risk The chart below gives an overview of the business control structure.
Overview of the business control structure Market Risk Director Risk type Traded Non-traded Pension risk Investment Banking book interest rate risk risk Foreign exchange risk Asset management risk managed by Global Retail Barclays Group Pension Fund Barclays Wealth Barclays Capital and Wealth Treasury Trustees and Global Retail Commercial Barclays Central and Banking Functions Commercial Banking Absa and reviewed Traded Positions Asset and Liability Treasury Investment Barclays Wealth by the Group Risk Review Committees Committee Committee Asset and Market Risk Meeting Liability New Product Treasury Hedge Pension Team and Committee Process team Committee Management Group Absa Market Risk Supervisory visits Committee from business Pension Executive centre team Board www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 123 The DVaR model has been approved by the FSA to calculate regulatory Traded market risk capital for the trading book.
The approval covers general market risk in interest rate, foreign exchange, commodities and equity products, and Barclays policy is to concentrate trading activities in Barclays Capital.
This includes transactions where Barclays Capital acts as principal with clients issuer specific risk for the majority of single name and portfolio traded credit products.
Internally, as noted before, DVaR is calculated for the trading book or with the market.
For maximum efficiency, client and market activities are managed together.
In Barclays Capital, trading risk is measured for the and certain banking books.
When reviewing DVaR estimates, a number of considerations should trading book, as defined for regulatory purposes, and certain banking books.
These are: Risk Measurement and Control Historical simulation uses the recent past to generate possible future The measurement techniques used to measure and control traded market market moves but the past may not be a good indicator of the future.
risk include Daily Value at Risk DVaR, Expected Shortfall, average of the three worst hypothetical losses from the DVaR simulation 3W, Global The one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be closed out or hedged within one day.
Asset Class stress testing and Global Scenario stress testing.
DVaR is an estimate of the potential loss arising from unfavourable market Intra-day risk is not captured.
movements, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day.
Barclays Capital uses the historical simulation methodology DVaR does not indicate the potential loss beyond the 95th percentile.
with a two-year unweighted historical period at the 95% confidence level.
DVaR is an important market risk measurement and control tool and The historical simulation methodology can be split into three parts: consequently the model is regularly assessed.
The main approach employed Calculate hypothetical daily profit or loss for each position over the most is the technique known as back-testing which counts the number of days when a loss as defined by the FSA exceeds the corresponding DVaR recent two years, using observed daily market moves.
estimate, measured at the 99% confidence level.
Sum all hypothetical profits or losses for day one across all positions, giving The FSA categorises a DVaR model as green, amber or red.
A green one total profit or loss.
Repeat for all other days in the two-year history.
model is consistent with a good working DVaR model and is achieved for models that have four or less back-testing exceptions in a 12-month period.
DVaR is the 95th percentile selected from the two-year history of daily hypothetical total profit or loss.
For Barclays Capitals trading book, green model status was maintained for 2009 and 2008.
Market volatility decreased from the extreme levels observed in the second Expected Shortfall is the average of all hypothetical losses from the half of 2008, but remained above pre-crisis 2007 levels.
As a consequence of historical simulation beyond DVaR.
To improve the control framework, formal the unweighted DVaR historical simulation methodology, the extreme 2008 monitoring of 3W average of the three worst observations from the DVaR volatility will continue to impact DVaR until late 2010. historical simulation was started in the first half of 2009.
124 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Market risk management continued Stress testing provides an indication of the potential size of losses that and the Lehman Brothers North American businesses acquisition.
Volatility could arise in extreme conditions.
Global Asset Class stress testing has been impacted average DVaR because 2008s extreme volatility impacted DVaR designed to cover major asset classes including interest rate, credit spread, throughout 2009 but only impacted 2008 DVaR in the last four months of commodity, equity and foreign exchange rates.
They are based on past stress 2008.
More commentary is given under the total DVaR graph below.
moves in respective asset class prices and rates.
Global Scenario stress Expected Shortfall and 3W averaged 121m and 209m respectively testing is based on hypothetical events which could lead to extreme yet representing increases of 51m 73% and 93m 80% compared to 2008. plausible stress type moves, under which profitability is seriously challenged.
As we enter 2010, the principal uncertainties which may impact Market Risk is controlled through the use of limits where appropriate on Barclays market risk relate to volatility in interest rates, commodities, credit the above risk measures.
Limits are set at the total Barclays Capital level, risk spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates.
While these markets factor level e. g. interest rate risk, and business line level e. g. Emerging exhibit improved liquidity and reduced volatility following Central Bank Markets.
Book limits such as foreign exchange and interest rate sensitivity support, price instability and higher volatility may still arise as government limits are also in place.
policy seeks to target future economic growth while controlling inflation risk.
Risk exposures are monitored by Barclays Capitals risk managers with oversight provided by Group Market Risk.
The total DVaR limit is approved by Analysis of trading revenue the Board.
Risk Factor DVaR limits and Global Asset Class stress testing limits The histogram below shows the distribution of daily trading revenue for are approved by Market Risk Committee.
Barclays Capital in 2009 and 2008. g Trading revenue reflects top-line income, excluding income from Private Analysis of traded market risk exposures Equity and Principal Investments.
Barclays Capitals market risk exposure, as measured by average total DVaR, The average daily revenue in 2009 was 71m, 87% more than recorded increased by 45% to 77m 2008: 53m.
The rise was mainly due to for 2008 38m.
There were 247 positive days, 5 negative days and one flat volatility considerations, increased interest rate and credit spread exposure, day 2008: 206 positive, 47 negative, one flat.
The daily average, maximum and minimum values of DVaR, Expected Shortfall and 3W were calculated as below: Year ended 31st December 2009 Year ended 31st December 2008 Average High Low Average High Low DVaR 95% m m m m m m Interest rate risk 44 83 23 29 48 15 Credit Spread risk 58 102 35 31 72 15 Commodity risk 14 20 11 18 25 13 Equity risk 13 27 5 921 5 Foreign exchange risk 815 3 613 2 Diversification effect 60 40 Total DVaR 77 119 50 53 95 36 Expected Shortfall 121 188 88 70 146 41 3W 209 301 148 116 282 61 Total DVaR 2008 and 2009 Barclays Capital daily trading revenue 2009 and 2008 m m Number of days 2008 2009 c 120 100 e b 80 60 a d f 40 20 0 Notes d Before trending down mainly due to a decrease in credit spread exposure and interest rate a Barclays acquires Lehman Brothers North American businesses during a period of exposure, reaching 58m in August 2009. extreme market volatility.
The Lehman positions are subsequently reduced.
e DVaR subsequently increased as markets began to recover and new positions were added b DVaR increases significantly due to the extreme market volatility impacting the DVaR to facilitate client trades.
Several financial institutions fail and there is a material deterioration in the f DVaR decreased towards year end driven by a reduction in exposure and an increase in global economic outlook.
Total DVaR as at 31st December 2009 was 55m 31st December 2008: 87m.
c Total DVaR peaked at 119m in March 2009. g Defined on page 342.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 125 Non-traded interest rate risk, as measured by AEaR, was 369m as at Non-traded interest rate risk 31st December 2009, an increase of 112m compared to 31st December 2008.
The increase mainly reflects the reduced spread generated on retail Non-traded interest rate risk arises from the provision of retail and wholesale non-traded banking products and services, and resides mainly in Global and commercial banking liabilities in the lower interest rate environment.
If the interest rate hedges had not been in place then the AEaR for 2009 Retail and Commercial Banking, and Group Treasury.
Barclays objective is to minimise non-traded risk.
This is achieved by would have been 704m 2008: 670m.
DVaR is also used to control market risk in Global Retail and Commercial transferring interest rate risk from the business to a local treasury or Group Treasury, which in turn hedges the net exposure with the external market.
Banking Western Europe and in Group Treasury.
The indicative average 2009 DVaRs for 2009 are 1.4m 2008: 1.3m for Western Europe and Limits exist to ensure no material risk is retained within any business or product area.
Trading activity is not permitted outside Barclays Capital.
Risk measurement and control Other market risks The risk in each business is measured and controlled using both an income metric Annual Earnings at Risk and a present value metric Daily Value at Barclays maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for past Risk or stress testing.
In addition, scenario stress analysis is carried out by and current employees.
The ability of the Pension Fund to meet the the business and reviewed by senior management and business-level asset projected pension payments is maintained through investments and regular and liability committees, when required.
Pension risk arises because the estimated market value Annual Earnings at Risk AEaR measures the sensitivity of net interest of the pension fund assets might decline: or their investment returns might income NII over the next 12 months.
It is calculated as the difference reduce: or the estimated value of the pension liabilities might increase.
In between the estimated income using the current yield curve and the lowest these circumstances, Barclays could be required or might choose to make estimated income following a 100 basis points increase or decrease in extra contributions to the pension fund.
interest rates, subject to a minimum interest rate of 0%.
Balances are During 2009 a risk reducing programme was conducted.
This entailed adjusted for an assumed behavioural profiles.
This includes the treatment increasing the holding of index-linked gilts to better match the liabilities and of non-maturity deposits.
reducing the net exposure to equities.
Financial details of the pension fund Daily Value at Risk and stress testing is calculated using a Barclays are in Note 30.
Both these metrics are calculated by each Investment risk is the risk of financial volatility arising from changes in respective business area with oversight provided by Group Market Risk.
the market value of investments, principally occurring in Barclays insurance Risk exposures are monitored by respective business risk managers companies.
A change in the fair value of these investments may give rise to with oversight provided by Group Market Risk.
The main business limits are a liability which may have to be funded by the Group.
It is Barclays policy to approved by Market Risk Committee.
Book limits such as foreign exchange hedge such exposures in line with a defined risk appetite.
and interest rate sensitivity limits are also in place where appropriate.
Barclays policy is for foreign exchange traded risk to be concentrated To further improve the market risk control framework, Group Market and managed in Barclays Capital.
Some transactional foreign exchange risk Risk initiated an ongoing programme of conformance visits to non-traded exposure arises outside Barclays Capital to support and facilitate client Treasury operations.
These visits review both the current market risk profile activity.
This is minimised in accordance with modest risk limits and was and potential market risk developments, as well as verifying conformance not material as at 31st December 2009.
Other non-Barclays capital foreign with Barclays policies and standards as detailed in the Market Risk Control exchange exposure is covered in Note 48.
Asset management structural risk arises where the fee and commission income earned by asset management products and businesses is affected Analysis of Net Interest Income sensitivity by a change in market levels, primarily through the link between income and The table below shows the pre-tax net interest income sensitivity for the the value of assets under management.
It is Barclays policy that businesses non-trading financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31st December monitor and report this risk against a defined risk appetite and regularly 2009 and 31st December 2008.
The sensitivity has been measured using assess potential hedging strategies.
AEaR methodology as described above.
The benchmark interest rate for each currency is set as at 31st December 2009.
The figures include the effect of hedging instruments but exclude exposures held or issued by Barclays Capital as these are measured and managed using DVaR.
Net interest income sensitivity AEaR by currency 31st December 2009 31st December 2008 100 basis -100 basis 100 basis -100 basis points points points points m m m m GBP 30 360 3 273 USD 43 14 25 7 EUR 34 34 30 ZAR 29 27 13 13 Others 1 4 8 Total 19 369 43 257 As percentage of total net interest income 0.16% 3.10% 0.37% 2.24% 126 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Market risk management continued Disclosures about certain trading activities including non-exchange prices, and established inter-commodity relationships.
Further information traded commodity contracts on fair value measurement of financial instruments can be found in Note 50 The Group provides a fully integrated service to clients for base metals, on page 293. precious metals, oil, power, natural gas, coal, freight, emission credits, Credit risk structured products and other related commodities.
This service offering Credit risk exposures are actively managed by the Group.
Refer to Note 47 continues to expand, as market conditions allow, through the addition of on page 269 for more information on the Groups approach to credit risk new products and markets.
management and the credit quality of derivative assets.
The Group offers both over the counter OTC and exchange-traded derivatives, including swaps, options, forwards and futures and enters into Fair value of the commodity derivative contracts physically settled contracts in base metals, power and gas, oil and related The tables below analyse the overall fair value of the OTC commodity products.
Physical commodity positions are held at fair value and reported derivative contracts by movement over time and contractual maturity.
As at under the Trading Portfolio in Note 12 on page 217.
31st December 2009 the fair value of the commodity derivative contracts reflects a gross positive fair value of 27,134m 2008: 44,881m and a Fair value measurement gross negative value of 26,227m 2008: 45,817m.
The fair values of physical and derivative positions are primarily determined through a combination of recognised market observable prices, exchange Movement in fair value Maturity analysis of commodity 2009 2008 2009 2008 of commodity derivative positions m m derivative fair value m m Fair value of contracts outstanding Not more than one year 75 2,022 at the beginning of the period 936 812 Over one year but not more than five years 620 999 Contracts realised or otherwise Over five years 362 87 settled during the period 1,521 241 Total 907 936 Fair value of new contracts entered into during the period 181 1,245 Other changes in fair values 503 744 Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period 907 936 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 127 Risk management Capital risk management Capital risk is the risk that the Group has insufficient capital changes in forecast profits and other capital resources: and resources to: changes to capital resources and forecast demand due to foreign Meet minimum regulatory requirements in the UK and in other exchange rate movements.
jurisdictions such as the United States and South Africa where regulated activities are undertaken.
The Groups authority to Managing capital ratio sensitivity to foreign exchange rate movements The Group has capital resources and risk weighted assets denominated operate as a bank is dependent upon the maintenance of adequate capital resources.
Changes in foreign exchange rates result in changes in the sterling equivalent value of foreign currency denominated capital Support its credit rating.
A weaker credit rating would increase the resources and risk weighted assets.
As a result, the Groups regulatory Groups cost of funds.
capital ratios are sensitive to foreign currency movements.
Support its growth and strategic options.
The Groups capital ratio hedge strategy is to minimise the volatility of the capital ratios caused by foreign exchange rate movements.
To achieve this, the Group aims to maintain the ratio of foreign currency Core Tier 1, Organisation and structure Tier 1 and Total Capital resources to foreign currency RWAs the same as Barclays operates a centralised capital management model, considering the Groups capital ratios.
The Groups foreign currency capital resources include investments in both regulatory and economic capital.
The Groups capital management objectives are to: subsidiaries and branches, intangible assets, non-controlling interest, deductions from capital and debt capital instruments.
maintain sufficient capital resources to meet the minimum regulatory The Groups investments in foreign currency subsidiaries and branches capital requirements set by the FSA and the US Federal Reserve Banks create Core Tier 1 capital resources denominated in foreign currencies.
requirements that a financial holding company be well capitalised: Changes in the sterling value of the investments due to foreign currency movements are captured in the currency translation reserve, resulting in a maintain sufficient capital resources to support the Groups risk appetite and economic capital requirements: movement in Core Tier 1 capital.
To create foreign currency Tier 1 and Total Capital resources additional support the Groups credit rating: to the Core Tier 1 capital resources, the Group issues, where possible, debt capital in non-sterling currencies.
This is primarily achieved by the issuance ensure locally regulated subsidiaries can meet their minimum capital requirements: and of debt capital from Barclays Bank PLC, but can also be achieved by subsidiaries issuing capital in local currencies.
allocate capital to support the Groups strategic objectives including In some circumstances, investments in foreign currency subsidiaries optimising returns on economic and regulatory capital.
In these circumstances, foreign currency capital resources are not created.
Hedging decisions take into account the impact Treasury Committee manages compliance with the Groups capital on capital ratios, the strategic nature of the investment, the cost of hedging, management objectives.
The Committee reviews actual and forecast the availability of a suitable foreign exchange market and prevailing foreign capital demand and resources on a monthly basis.
The processes in place exchange rates.
Depending on the value of foreign currency net investments, for delivering the Groups capital management objectives are: it is not always possible to maintain the ratio of Core Tier 1 capital to RWAs establishment of internal targets for capital demand and ratios: consistent with the Groups Core Tier 1 ratio in all currencies, leaving some capital ratio sensitivity to foreign currency movements.
managing capital ratio sensitivity to foreign exchange movement: The investment of proceeds from the issuance of equity accounted ensuring local entity regulatory capital adequacy: foreign currency preference shares also contributes to foreign currency capital resources.
If a preference share issuance is redeemed, the cumulative allocating capital in the Groups strategic medium-term plan: and movement from the date of issuance in the currency translation reserve will economic Capital management.
be offset by an equal and opposite movement in reserves reflecting the revaluation of the preference shares to prevailing foreign exchange rates.
In addition to the processes above, the Group Risk Oversight Committee Issuance of a replacement Tier 1 instrument in the same currency will and the Board Risk Committee annually review and set risk appetite see maintain the hedge of the Tier 1 ratio.
page 268 and analyse the impacts of stress scenarios on the Group capital forecast see page 93 in order to understand and manage the Groups Local entity regulatory capital adequacy projected capital adequacy.
The Group manages its capital resources to ensure that those Group entities that are subject to local capital adequacy regulation in individual jurisdictions Internal targets meet their minimum capital requirements.
Local management manages compliance with entities minimum regulatory capital requirements by To support its capital management objectives, the Group sets internal reporting to local Asset and Liability Committees with oversight by The targets for its key capital ratios.
Internal targets are reviewed regularly by Treasury Committee, as required.
Treasury Committee to take account of: Injections of capital resources into Group entities are centrally controlled changes in forecast demand for capital caused by accessing new business by The Treasury Committee, under authorities delegated from the Group opportunities, including mergers and acquisitions: Executive Committee.
The Groups policy is for surplus capital held in Group entities to be repatriated to Barclays Bank PLC in the form of dividends flexibility in debt capital issuance and securitisation plans: and or capital repatriation, subject to local regulatory requirements, the possible impact of stress scenarios including: exchange controls and tax implications.
Other than as indicated above, the Group is not aware of any material changes in forecast demand for capital from unanticipated drawdown impediments to the prompt transfer of capital resources or repayment of of committed facilities or as a result of deterioration in the credit quality intra-group liabilities when due.
of the Groups assets: 128 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Capital risk management continued a Allocating capital in the Groups strategic medium-term plan Economic Capital Demand Capital adequacy and returns on regulatory and economic capital form UK Retail Banking economic capital allocation decreased 200m to 3,750m a key part of the Groups annual strategic medium-term planning process.
2008: 3,950m mainly reflecting a revised measurement of economic Amongst other strategic objectives, the Group seeks to optimise returns on capital for business risk.
In addition, small reductions were seen in the economic and regulatory capital through the planning process.
To achieve economic capital allocation for overdrafts and local businesses that were this, executive management consider returns on risk weighted assets and offset by growth in mortgages and consumer lending.
economic capital when setting limits for business capital demand.
Executive Barclays Commercial Bank economic capital allocation decreased 50m management will also review the forecast capital ratios to ensure internal to 3,450m 2008: 3,500m driven primarily by a reduction in exposure targets continue to be met over the medium-term plan.
offset by an increase in non-performing loans due to economic conditions.
The Treasury Committee reviews the limits on capital demand on Barclaycard economic capital allocation increased 650m to 3,350m a monthly basis taking into account actual performance.
2008: 2,700m, reflecting asset growth and appreciation of US Dollar against Sterling in 2008 and modest asset growth in 2009.
Economic capital GRCB Western Europe economic capital allocation increased 600m Economic capital is an internal measure of the minimum equity and to 2,500m 2008: 1,900m, due to deteriorating wholesale credit preference capital required for the Group to maintain its credit rating based conditions, acquisition activity, additional fixed assets as a result of branch upon its risk profile.
expansion and exchange rate movements.
Barclays assesses capital requirements by measuring the Groups risk GRCB Emerging Markets economic capital allocation increased profile using both internally and externally developed models.
This reflects asset growth in 2008 assigns economic capital primarily within the following risk categories: versus a relatively slower contraction in 2009. credit risk, market risk, operational risk, private equity and pension risk.
GRCB Absa economic capital allocation increased 100m to 1,200m The Group regularly reviews its economic capital methodology and 2008: 1,100m, driven primarily by exchange rate movements offset by a benchmarks outputs to external reference points.
The framework uses reduction in exposure.
default probabilities during average credit conditions, rather than those Barclays Capital average economic capital allocation increased 2,500m prevailing at the balance sheet date, thus seeking to remove cyclicality from to 10,750m 2008: 8,250m.
This primarily reflects deterioration in credit the economic capital calculation.
The economic capital framework takes quality that resulted in growth in the economic capital allocation towards into consideration time horizon, correlation of risks and risk concentrations.
the end of 2008 and a further modest increase in 2009.
Economic capital is allocated on a consistent basis across all of Barclays Barclays Global Investors investment economic capital allocation of businesses and risk activities.
A single cost of equity is applied to calculate 1,000m 2008: 400m includes BGI assets up to disposal on 1st December the cost of risk.
2009, and BGI related exposures post-disposal, mainly the BlackRock, Inc The total average economic capital required by the Group is compared equity investment.
with the supply of economic capital to evaluate economic capital utilisation.
Barclays Wealth economic capital allocation increased 50m to 550m The supply of economic capital is based on the available shareholders 2008: 500m, reflecting growth in loans and advances and increased equity adjusted for certain items e. g. retirement benefit liability, cash flow measure of economic capital for other risk types.
hedging reserve and including preference shares.
Economic capital forms the basis of the Groups submission for the Basel II Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
Average economic capital Average year Average year ended ended 31.12.09 31.12.08 m m UK Retail Banking 3,750 3,950 Barclays Commercial Bank 3,450 3,500 Barclaycard 3,350 2,700 GRCB Western Europe 2,500 1,900 GRCB Emerging Markets 1,200 1,100 GRCB Absa 1,200 1,100 Barclays Capital 10,750 8,250 Barclays Global Investors 1,000 400 Barclays Wealth 550 500 Head Office Functions and Other Operations 100 50 Economic capital requirement excluding goodwill 27,850 23,450 Average historic goodwill and b intangible assets 11,000 9,450 c Total economic capital requirement 38,850 32,900 Notes a Calculated using an adjusted average over the year and rounded to the nearest 50m for presentation purposes.
Economic capital demand excludes the economic capital calculated for pension risk.
b Average goodwill relates to purchased goodwill and intangible assets from business acquisitions.
c Total period end economic capital requirement as at 31st December 2009 stood at 40,750m 31st December 2008: 39,200m.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 129 a The average supply of capital to support the economic capital framework 2009 2008 m m b Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests less goodwill 28,000 17,650 Retirement benefits liability 800 1,050 Cash flow hedging reserve 300 100 Available for sale reserve 600 400 Cumulative gains on own credit 1,150 1,250 Preference shares 5,850 5,500 Available funds for economic capital excluding goodwill 33,800 23,450 b Average historic goodwill and intangible assets 11,000 9,450 c Available funds for economic capital including goodwill 44,800 32,900 Average economic capital allocation by business d 2008 m 2009 Average economic capital allocation by risk type d 2008 m 2009 Notes a Averages for the period will not correspond to period-end balances disclosed on the balance d Average EC charts exclude the EC calculated for pension risk average pension risk for 2009 sheet.
Numbers are rounded to the nearest 50m for presentational purposes only.
is 2,500m compared with 650m in 2008. b Average goodwill relates to purchased goodwill and intangible assets from business e Includes Transition Businesses and capital for central function risks.
c Available funds for economic capital as at 31st December 2009 stood at 40,650m g Includes investments in associates, private equity risk, insurance risk, residual value and 2008:39,200m.
Also includes BGI related exposures post-disposal, mainly the BlackRock equity.
Wholesale credit UK Retail 8,350 3,950 f risk incl CRLs Banking 10,000 3,750 Barclays 7,250 3,500 Retail credit risk Commercial Bank 7,750 3,450 1,900 2,700 Operational risk Barclaycard 2,000 3,350 2,350 GRCB 1,900 Market risk Western Europe 3,700 2,500 1,000 GRCB 1,100 Fixed asset risk Emerging Markets 1,700 1,200 2,600 1,100 g GRCB Other risks Absa 2,700 1,200 8,250 Barclays Capital 10,750 Barclays 400 Global Investors 1,000 500 Barclays Wealth 550 Head Office 50 functions and e other operations 100 130 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Liquidity risk management Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations Liquidity risk framework when they fall due as a result of a sudden, and potentially protracted, Barclays has a comprehensive Liquidity Risk Management Framework the increase in net cash outflows.
Such outflows would deplete available Liquidity Framework for managing the Groups liquidity risk.
The objective cash resources for client lending, trading activities, investments and of the Liquidity Framework is for the Group to have sufficient liquidity to deposits.
In extreme circumstances lack of liquidity could result in continue to operate for at least the minimum period specified by the FSA in reductions in balance sheet and sales of assets, or potentially an inability the event that the wholesale funding markets are neither open to Barclays to fulfil lending commitments.
The risk that it will be unable to do so is nor to the market as a whole.
Many of the stress tests currently applied inherent in all banking operations and can be affected by a range of under the Liquidity Framework will also be applied under the FSAs new institution-specific and market-wide events.
regime, although the precise calibration may differ in Barclays final Individual Liquidity Guidance to be set by the FSA.
The Framework considers a range of possible wholesale and retail factors leading to loss of financing including: Organisation and structure maturing of wholesale liabilities: Barclays Treasury operates a centralised governance and control process that covers all of the Groups liquidity risk management activities.
Businesses loss of secured financing and widened haircuts on remaining book: assist Barclays Treasury in policy formation and limit setting by providing retail and commercial outflows from savings and deposit accounts: relevant and expert input for their local markets and customers.
Execution of the Groups liquidity risk management strategy is carried drawdown of loans and commitments: out at country level within agreed policies, controls and limits, with the potential impact of a two-notch ratings downgrade: and Country Treasurer providing reports directly to Barclays Treasury to evidence conformance with the agreed risk profile.
Liquidity risk is a standing agenda withdrawal of initial margin amounts by counterparties.
item at Country and Cluster Asset and Liability Committees and on a These stressed scenarios are used to assess the appropriate level for the consolidated basis is reported to the Groups Treasury Committee.
Groups liquidity pool, which comprises unencumbered assets and cash.
The objective of the Groups liquidity risk management strategy is to Barclays regularly uses these assets to access secured funding markets, ensure that the funding profile of individual businesses and the Group as a thereby testing the liquidity assumptions underlying pool composition.
The whole is appropriate to underlying market conditions and the profile of our Group does not presume the availability of central bank facilities to monetise business in each given country.
Liquidity risk limits and controls are flexed to the liquidity pool in any of the stress scenarios under the Liquidity achieve that profile and are based on regular qualitative and quantitative Framework.
assessments of conditions under both normal and stressed conditions.
Businesses are only allowed to have funding exposure to wholesale markets Liquidity Pool where they can demonstrate that their market is sufficiently deep and liquid The Group liquidity pool as at 31st December 2009 was 127bn gross and then only relative to the size and complexity of their business.
31st December 2008: 43bn and comprised cash and unencumbered Liquidity limits reflect both local regulatory requirements as well as the assets.
behavioural characteristics of their balance sheets.
Breaches of limits are The cost of maintaining the liquidity pool is a function of the source of reported to Treasury Committee together with details of the requirements funding for the buffer and the reinvestment spread.
The cost of funding the to return to compliance.
liquidity pool is estimated to have been approximately 650m for 2009.
Composition of the Group liquidity pool Cash and Government deposits Government and Other with central guaranteed supranational available banks bonds bonds liquidity Total bn bn bn bn bn a As at 31st December 2009 81 3 31 12 127 a As at 31st December 2008 30 2 11 43 Note a Previously disclosed as Barclays Capital only.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 131 Term Financing mismatches between assets and liabilities, as well as the level and type of Raising term funding is important in meeting the risk appetite of the Barclays undrawn lending commitments, the usage of overdraft facilities and the Liquidity Framework.
Barclays has continued to increase the term of issued impact of contingent liabilities such as standby letters of credit and liabilities during 2009 by issuing: guarantees.
15bn equivalent of public senior term funding: Diversification of liquidity sources 1.8bn equivalent of public covered bonds: and Sources of liquidity are regularly reviewed to maintain a wide diversification by currency, geography, provider, product and term.
In addition, to avoid 21bn equivalent of structured notes.
reliance on a particular group of customers or market sectors, the The Group has 4bn of publicly issued debt and 11bn of structured notes distribution of sources and the maturity profile of deposits are also carefully maturing in 2010. managed.
Important factors in assuring liquidity are competitive rates and the maintenance of depositors confidence.
Such confidence is based on a Intraday liquidity number of factors including the Groups reputation and relationship with The need to monitor, manage and control intraday liquidity in real time is those clients, the strength of earnings and the Groups financial position.
recognised by the Group as a critical process: any failure to meet specific intraday commitments would have significant consequences, such as a Funding Structure visible market disruption.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking, Barclays Wealth and Head Office The Group policy is that each operation must ensure that it has access Functions are structured to be self-funded through customer deposits and to sufficient intraday liquidity to meet any obligations it may have to clearing Barclays equity and other long-term capital.
The Barclays Capital and Absa and settlement systems.
Major currency payment flows and payment businesses are funded through the wholesale secured and unsecured system collateral are monitored and managed in real time to ensure that at funding markets.
all times there is sufficient collateral to make payments.
In practice, the The ratio of customer loans to customer deposits and long-term Group maintains a significant buffer of surplus intraday liquidity to ensure funding has improved to 81% at 31st December 2009, from 93% at that payments are made on a timely basis.
The Group actively engages in 31st December 2008. payment system development to help ensure that new payment systems are robust.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking, Barclays Wealth and Head Office Functions Day to day funding An important source of structural liquidity is provided by our core retail Day to day funding is managed through limits on wholesale borrowings, deposits in the UK, Europe and Africa: mainly current accounts and savings secured borrowings and funding mismatches.
These ensure that on any day accounts.
Although contractually current accounts are repayable on demand and over any period there is a limited amount of refinancing requirement.
and savings accounts at short notice, the Groups broad base of customers These requirements include replenishment of funds as they mature or are numerically and by depositor type helps to protect against unexpected borrowed by customers.
Such accounts form a stable funding base for the Groups In addition to cash flow management, Treasury also monitors term operations and liquidity needs.
Wholesale depositor split by counterparty type Barclays Capital Other Other central financial Banks Corporates Governments banks institutions Total %%%%%% As at 31st December 2009 36 15 2 16 31 100 As at 31st December 2008 32 15 11 9 33 100 Wholesale depositor split by geography Barclays Capital Rest of US UK Other EU Japan Africa World Total %%%%%%% As at 31st December 2009 9 25 23 3 16 24 100 As at 31st December 2008 13 22 16 9 17 23 100 a GRCB, Barclays Wealth and Head Office Behavioural maturity profile of assets and liabilities Cash inflow outflow Over Over Over Over 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years Not but not but not but not but not Funding more than more than more than more than more than Over surplus 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 5 years bn bn bn bn bn bn bn As at 31st December 2009 94.5 10.2 17.8 21.2 7.8 1.8 132.9 Note a Prior year figures have not been provided as these measures have not previously been reported on a comparable basis.
132 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Liquidity risk management continued Group policy is to ensure that the assets of the retail, wealth and Unsecured wholesale funding for the Group excluding Absa is corporate bank, together with Head Office functions, on a global basis, managed by Barclays Capital within specific term limits.
Excluding shortdo not exceed customer deposits and subordinated funding so that these term deposits that are included within the Groups liquidity pool, the term businesses place no reliance on wholesale markets.
The exception to this of unsecured liabilities has been extended, with average life improving a policy is Absa, which has a large portion of wholesale funding due to the from at least 14 months at 31st December 2008 to at least 26 months structure of the South African financial sector.
In order to assess liquidity risk, the balance sheet is modelled to reflect The extension of the term of the wholesale financing has meant that, behavioural experience in both assets and liabilities and is managed to as at 31st December 2009, 81% of net wholesale funding had remaining maintain a cash surplus.
The maturity profile, excluding Absa, resulting maturity of greater than one year and, as at the same date, there was no from this behavioural modelling is set out above.
This shows that there is a net wholesale unsecured re-financing required within six months.
funding surplus of 94.5bn, and that there are expected outflows of 10.2bn within one year from asset repayments being less than liability attrition.
For Regulatory Changes in 2009 subsequent years the expected repayments on assets are larger than the The FSA issued its policy document on strengthening liquidity standards roll off of liabilities resulting in cash inflows.
Maturities of net liabilities are, on 5th October detailing the requirements for liquidity governance to be in therefore, behaviourally expected to occur after five years.
place by 1st December 2009, and the quantitative requirements for liquidity buffers, which will be in place from 1st June 2010, although with an Barclays Capital extended transition period of several years to meet the expected standards.
Barclays Capital manages its liquidity to be primarily funded through This is the most comprehensive liquidity regime imposed by any wholesale sources, managing access to liquidity to ensure that potential regulator globally, requiring increased quantitative reporting from June 2010 cash outflows in a stressed environment are covered.
and additional evidential reporting to demonstrate adherence to new 73% of the inventory is funded on a secured basis 31st December qualitative requirements.
In addition, the Basel Committee on Banking 2008: 50%.
Additionally, much of the short-term funding is invested in Supervision released a consultative document International framework for highly liquid assets and central bank cash and therefore contributes towards liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring in December 2009. the Group liquidity pool.
This included two new key liquidity metrics.
A liquidity coverage ratio aimed Barclays Capital undertakes secured funding in the repo markets based at ensuring banks have sufficient unencumbered high quality assets to meet on liquidity characteristics.
Limits are in place for each security asset class cash outflows in an acute short-term stress and a Net Stable Funding Ratio reflecting liquidity in the cash and financing markets for these assets.
The to promote longer-term structural funding of the Banks balance sheet and percentage of secured funding using each asset class as collateral is set capital market activities.
Secured funding by asset class Government Agency MBS ABS Corporate Equity Other %%%%%%% As at 31st December 2009 59776 1083 As at 31st December 2008 49 9 11 9 15 4 3 b Contractual maturity of unsecured liabilities Not more Not more Not more Not more Not more than than than than than Over Net of assets available from the Group Liquidity pool 1 month 2 months 3 months 6 months 1 year 1 year %%%%%% As at 31st December 2009 19 81 Notes a The 31st December 2008 average unsecured liability term has been restated to at least 14 months to reflect refinements in the underlying calculation.
b Prior years figures have not been provided as these measures have not previously been reported on a comparable basis.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 133 Risk management Operational risk management Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect losses resulting from Principal Risk Owners.
The prime responsibility for the management of human factors, external events, and inadequate or failed internal operational risk and the compliance with control requirements rests with the processes and systems.
Operational risks are inherent in the Groups business and functional units where the risk arises.
Front line risk managers operations and are typical of any large enterprise.
Major sources of are widely distributed throughout the Group in business units.
They service operational risk include: operational process reliability, IT security, and support these areas, assisting line managers in managing these risks.
outsourcing of operations, dependence on key suppliers, implementation Business Risk Directors in each business are responsible for overseeing of strategic change, integration of acquisitions, fraud, human error, the implementation of and compliance with Group policies.
Governance customer service quality, regulatory compliance, recruitment, training and Control Committees in each business monitor control effectiveness.
and retention of staff, and social and environmental impacts.
Barclays The Group Governance and Control Committee receives reports from the is committed to the advanced measurement and management of committees in the businesses and considers Group-significant control operational risks.
In particular, it has implemented improved management issues and their remediation.
In the Group Centre, each Principal Risk is and measurement approaches for operational risk to strengthen control, owned by a senior individual who liaises with Principal Risk owners within improve customer service and minimise operating losses.
In addition, the Operational Risk Director oversees the granted a Waiver to operate an Advanced Measurement Approach range of operational risks across the Group in accordance with the Group AMA under Basel II, which commenced in January 2008.
Business units are required to report on both The Groups operational risk management framework aims to: a regular and an event-driven basis.
The reports include a profile of the material risks to their business objectives, control issues of Group-level Understand and report the operational risks being taken by the Group.
significance, and operational risk events.
Specific reports are prepared on Capture and report operational errors made.
a regular basis for the Group Risk Oversight Committee, the Board Risk Committee and the Board Audit Committee.
The Internal Audit function Understand and minimise the frequency and impact, on a cost benefit provides further assurance for operational risk control across the basis, of operational risk events.
organisation and reports to the Board and senior management.
Manage residual exposures using insurance.
Measurement and capital modelling Organisation and structure Barclays applies a consistent approach to the identification and assessment Barclays works to benchmark our internal operation risk practices with peer of key risks and controls across all business units.
Managers in the banks and to drive the development of advanced operational risk techniques businesses use self-assessment techniques to identify risks, evaluate across the industry.
It is not cost effective to attempt to eliminate all control effectiveness and monitor performance.
Business management operational risks and in any event it would not be possible to do so.
Events determines whether particular risks are effectively managed within business of small significance are expected to occur and are accepted as part of the Risk Appetite and otherwise takes remedial action.
The risk assessment normal course of business: events of material significance are rare and process is consistent with the principles in the integrated framework the Group seeks to reduce the risk from these in accordance with its agreed published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Risk Appetite.
Barclays has a Group Operational Risk Framework, which is consistent A standard process is used Group-wide for the recognition, capture, with and part of the Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework.
assessment, analysis and reporting of risk events.
This process is used to Minimum control requirements have been established for all key areas of help identify where process and control requirements are needed to reduce identified risk by Principal Risk owners see page 82.
The risk categories the recurrence of risk events.
Risk events are captured in a central database relevant to operational risks are Financial Crime, Financial Reporting, and reported monthly to the Group Operational Risk Executive Committee.
Taxation, Legal, Operations, People, Regulatory and Technology.
In addition, Barclays also uses a database of external public risk events and is a the following risk categories are used for business risk: Brand Management, member of the Operational Risk Data Exchange ORX, an association of Corporate Responsibility, Strategic and Major Change.
Responsibility for international banks that share anonymised loss data information to assist implementing and overseeing these policies is positioned with Group in risk identification, assessment and modelling.
134 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Operational risk management continued By combining internal data, including internal loss experience, risk and Operational risk events control assessments, key indicators and audit findings, with external loss A high proportion of Barclays operational risk events have a low financial cost data and expert management judgement, Barclays is able to generate associated with them and a very small proportion of operational risk events Key Risk Scenarios KRSs, which identify the most significant operational have a material impact.
In 2009, 73.3% of reported operational losses had risks across the Group.
The KRSs are validated at business unit and at Group a value of 50,000 or less 2008: 72.8% but accounted for 3.4% of the level to ensure that they appropriately reflect the level of operational risk.
In contrast, 4% of the operational risk events These are the main input to our capital model.
Distributions of the potential had a value of 1m or greater 2008: 2% but accounted for 87% of the frequency and severity of operational risk losses are calculated and overall impact 2008: 66%.
aggregated to provide a distribution of potential losses over a year for The Group monitors trends in operational losses by size, business unit Barclays as a whole.
The aggregation process takes into account potential and internal risk categories including Principal Risk.
For comparative correlations between risk events.
The regulatory capital requirement is purposes, the analysis below presents Barclays operational risk events by determined to a soundness standard of 99.9% confidence.
Operational risk Basel II category.
In 2009, the highest frequency of events occurred in capital is allocated, on a risk sensitive basis, to business units, providing an Execution, Delivery and Process Management 45.3% and External Fraud incentive to manage these risks within appetite levels.
These two areas also accounted for the majority of losses by value, with Execution, Delivery and Process Management comprising 50.5% of total operational risk losses and External Fraud making up a further 38.1%.
The growth in impact of external fraud year on year was caused by stressed market conditions which have brought to light fraudulent activity by a number of clients.
1: Operational risk events by risk category Fig.
2: Operational risk events by category % of 08 loss % of 08 loss % of total risk events by count % of total by value events count events value % of 09 loss % of 09 loss events count events value Business 3.0 disruptions and system failures 4.5 Clients, products 1.9 and business practices 1.6 Damage to 3.2 physical assets 3.0 Employment 0.3 practices and workplace safety 0.2 Execution, delivery 42.7 and process management 45.3 42.4 External fraud 35.8 6.6 Internal fraud 9.5 Business 3.0 disruptions and system failures 0.5 Clients, products 3.3 and business practices 8.5 0.8 Damage to physical assets 0.7 Employment 0.1 practices and workplace safety 0.0 Execution, delivery 79.0 and process management 50.5 9.2 External fraud 38.1 4.7 Internal fraud 1.7 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 135 Risk management Statistical information Statistical and other risk information This section of the report contains supplementary information that is more detailed or contains longer histories than the data presented in the discussion.
The industry classifications in Tables 3-7 have been prepared at the level of the borrowing entity.
This means that a loan to the subsidiary of a major corporation is classified by the industry in which the subsidiary operates, even though the Parents predominant business may be in a different industry.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 139 Table 11: Off-balance sheet and other credit exposures as at 31st December 2009 2008 2007 m m m Off-balance sheet exposures Contingent liabilities 52,774 66,310 45,774 Commitments 207,275 260,816 192,639 On-balance sheet exposures Trading portfolio assets 151,344 185,637 193,691 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 41,311 54,542 56,629 Derivative financial instruments 416,815 984,802 248,088 Available for sale financial investments 56,483 64,976 43,072 Table 12: Notional principal amounts of credit derivatives as at 31st December 2009 2008 2007 m m m a Credit derivatives held or issued for trading purposes 2,016,796 4,129,244 2,472,249 Table 13: Credit risk loans summary 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 At 31st December m m m m m Impaired loans 16,240 12,264 8,574 4,444 4,550 Accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or interest 5,317 2,953 794 598 609 Impaired and restructured loans 831 483 273 46 51 Credit risk loans 22,388 15,700 9,641 5,088 5,210 Table 14: Credit risk loans 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 At 31st December m m m m m Impaired loans: United Kingdom 4,519 3,793 3,605 3,340 2,965 Other European Union 4,004 1,713 472 410 345 United States 4,612 4,397 3,703 129 230 Africa 2,170 1,996 757 535 831 Rest of the World 935 365 37 30 179 Total 16,240 12,264 8,574 4,444 4,550 Accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or interest: United Kingdom 2,312 1,656 676 516 539 Other European Union 951 562 79 58 53 United States 232 433 10 3 Africa 1,739 172 29 21 17 Rest of the World 83 130 Total 5,317 2,953 794 598 609 Impaired and restructured loans: United Kingdom 582 367 179 5 Other European Union 41 29 14 10 7 United States 180 82 38 22 16 Africa 22 421423 Rest of the World 6 5 Total 831 483 273 46 51 Total credit risk loans: United Kingdom 7,413 5,816 4,460 3,856 3,509 Other European Union 4,996 2,304 565 478 405 United States 5,024 4,912 3,751 154 246 Africa 3,931 2,168 828 570 871 Rest of the World 1,024 500 37 30 179 Credit risk loans 22,388 15,700 9,641 5,088 5,210 Note a Includes credit derivatives held as economic hedges which are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
140 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Statistical information continued Table 15: Potential problem loans 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 At 31st December m m m m m United Kingdom 858 883 419 465 640 Other European Union 790 963 59 32 26 United States 553 431 964 21 12 Africa 488 140 355 240 248 Rest of the World 679 39 3 3 Potential problem loans 3,368 2,456 1,797 761 929 Table 16: Interest foregone on credit risk loans 2009 2008 2007 m m m Interest income that would have been recognised under the original contractual terms United Kingdom 392 244 340 Rest of the World 736 235 91 Total 1,128 479 431 Interest income of approximately 413m 2008: 195m, 2007: 48m from such loans was included in profit, of which 137m 2008: 72m, 2007: 26m related to domestic lending and the remainder related to foreign lending.
In addition, a further 185m 2008: 135m, 2007: 113m was recognised arising from impaired loans.
Following impairment, interest income is recognised using the original effective rate of interest which was used to discount the expected future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
52m 2008: 42m, 2007: 93m of this related to domestic impaired loans and the remainder related to foreign impaired loans.
Table 17: Analysis of impairment provision charges 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 At 31st December m m m m m Impairment charge net specific provisions charge United Kingdom 2,744 1,817 1,593 1,880 1,382 Other European Union 1,408 587 123 92 75 United States 1,525 1,519 374 12 76 Africa 814 454 214 143 37 Rest of the World 839 207 2 53 4 Impairment on loans and advances 7,330 4,584 2,306 2,074 1,574 Impairment on available for sale assets 670 382 13 86 4 Impairment on reverse repurchase agreements 43 124 Impairment charge 8,043 5,090 2,319 2,160 1,578 Other credit provisions charge release 28 329 476 6 7 Impairment provision charges 8,071 5,419 2,795 2,154 1,571 Table 18: Impairment provisions charges ratios Loan loss ratios 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 % %%% % Impairment provisions charges as a percentage of average loans and advances for the year: Impairment charge 1.64 1.01 0.64 0.66 0.58 Total 1.64 1.01 0.64 0.66 0.58 Amounts written off net of recoveries 0.72 0.61 0.49 0.61 0.50 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 141 Table 19: Analysis of allowance for impairment provision for bad and doubtful debts 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Impairment allowance specific provisions United Kingdom 4,083 2,947 2,526 2,477 2,266 Other European Union 2,014 963 344 311 284 United States 2,518 1,561 356 100 130 Africa 1,349 857 514 417 647 Rest of the World 832 246 32 30 123 Allowance for impairment provision balances 10,796 6,574 3,772 3,335 3,450 Average loans and advances for the year 447,569 453,413 357,853 313,614 271,421 Table 20: Allowance for impairment provision balance ratios 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 % %%% % Allowance for impairment provision balance at end of year as a percentage of loans and advances at end of year: Impairment balance 2.29 1.27 0.97 1.05 1.14 Total 2.29 1.27 0.97 1.05 1.14 Table 21: Movements in allowance for impairment provisions charge 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 a for bad and doubtful debts m m m m m Allowance for impairment provision balance at beginning of year 6,574 3,772 3,335 3,450 2,637 Acquisitions and disposals 434 307 73 23 555 Unwind of discount 185 135 113 98 76 Exchange and other adjustments 127 791 53 153 125 Amounts written off 3,380 2,919 1,963 2,174 1,587 Recoveries 150 174 227 259 222 Impairment provision charged against profit 7,330 4,584 2,306 2,074 1,574 Allowance for impairment provision balance at end of year 10,796 6,574 3,772 3,335 3,450 Table 22: Amounts written off 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m United Kingdom 1,569 1,514 1,530 1,746 1,302 Other European Union 453 162 143 74 56 United States 669 1,044 145 46 143 Africa 438 187 145 264 81 Rest of the World 251 12 44 5 Amounts written off 3,380 2,919 1,963 2,174 1,587 Note a Does not reflect the impairment of available for sale assets or other credit risk provisions.
142 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Statistical information continued Table 23: Recoveries 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m United Kingdom 48 131 154 178 160 Other European Union 12 4321813 United States 6 1 7 22 15 Africa 80 36 34 33 16 Rest of the World 4 2 8 18 Recoveries 150 174 227 259 222 a Table 24: Impairment allowances provision charged against profit 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m New and increased impairment allowance specific provision charge: United Kingdom 3,123 2,160 1,960 2,253 1,763 Other European Union 1,625 659 192 182 113 United States 1,535 1,529 431 60 105 Africa 932 526 268 209 109 Rest of the World 896 242 20 18 39 8,111 5,116 2,871 2,722 2,129 Reversals of impairment allowance specific provision charge: United Kingdom 331 212 213 195 221 Other European Union 205 68 37 72 25 United States 4 9 50 26 14 Africa 38 36 20 33 56 Rest of the World 53 33 18 63 17 631 358 338 389 333 Recoveries 150 174 227 259 222 Net charge to profit 7,330 4,584 2,306 2,074 1,574 Table 25: Total impairment specific provision charges 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m for bad and doubtful debts by industry United Kingdom: Financial services 485 76 32 64 22 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 2 4 5 9 Manufacturing 112 118 72 1 120 Construction 54 15 14 17 14 Property 113 80 36 15 18 Energy and water 1 1 7 1 Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 314 59 118 88 39 Transport 13 3 3 19 27 Postal and communication 17 1515 3 Business and other services 175 234 81 133 45 Home loans 33 28 1 4 7 Other personal 1,376 1,178 1,187 1,526 1,142 Finance lease receivables 50 21 33 3 2,744 1,817 1,593 1,880 1,382 Overseas 4,586 2,767 713 194 192 Impairment specific provision charges 7,330 4,584 2,306 2,074 1,574 The category Other personal includes credit cards, personal loans, second liens and personal overdrafts.
The industry classifications in Tables 25, 26 and 27 have been prepared at the level of the borrowing entity.
Note a Does not reflect the impairment of available for sale assets, reverse repurchase agreements or other credit risk provisions.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 145 Risk management Supervision and regulation The Groups operations, including its overseas offices, subsidiaries and funded by levies on authorised UK firms such as Barclays Bank PLC.
In the associates, are subject to a significant body of rules and regulations that event that the FSCS raises funds, raises those funds more frequently or are a condition for authorisation to conduct banking and financial services significantly increases the levies to be paid by firms, the associated costs to business, constrain business operations and affect financial returns.
the Group may have a material impact on the Groups results and financial These include reserve and reporting requirements and conduct of business condition.
Further details can be found in the Competition and Regulatory regulations.
These requirements are imposed by the relevant central banks Matters note to the financial statements on page 248. and regulatory authorities that supervise the Group in the jurisdictions in Outside the UK, the Group has operations and main regulators located in continental Europe, in particular France, Germany, Spain, Switzerland, which it operates.
The requirements reflect global standards developed by, among others, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the Portugal and Italy local central banks and other regulatory authorities : Asia Pacific various regulatory authorities including the Hong Kong Monetary International Organisation of Securities Commissions.
They also reflect requirements derived from EU directives.
Authority, the Financial Services Agency of Japan, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the In the UK, the Financial Services Authority FSA is the independent body responsible for the regulation and supervision of deposit taking, life China Banking Regulatory Commission and the Reserve Bank of India : Africa and the Middle East various regulatory authorities including the South insurance, home mortgages, general insurance and investment business.
Barclays Bank PLC is authorised by the FSA under the Financial Services African Reserve Bank and the Financial Services Board and the regulatory authorities of the United Arab Emirates and the United States of America and Markets Act 2000 to carry on a range of regulated activities within the UK and is subject to consolidated supervision by the FSA.
In its role as including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FRB, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCC and the Securities and supervisor, the FSA seeks to maintain the safety and soundness of financial institutions with the aim of strengthening, but not guaranteeing, the Exchange Commission SEC.
In Europe, the UK regulatory agenda is considerably shaped and protection of customers and the financial system.
The FSAs continuing supervision of financial institutions is conducted through a variety of influenced by the directives emanating from the EU.
These form part of the European Single Market programme, an important feature of which is the regulatory tools, including the collection of information from statistical and prudential returns, reports obtained from skilled persons, visits to firms and framework for the regulation of authorised firms.
This framework is designed to enable a credit institution or investment firm authorised in one EU member regular meetings with management to discuss issues such as performance, risk management and strategy.
state to conduct banking or investment business through the establishment of branches or by the provision of services on a cross-border basis in other The FSA adopts a risk-based approach to supervision.
The starting point for supervision of all financial institutions is a systematic analysis of the member states without the need for local authorisation.
Barclays operations in Europe are authorised and regulated by a combination of both home risk profile for each authorised firm.
The FSA has adopted a homogeneous risk, processes and resourcing model in its approach to its supervisory the FSA and host regulators.
Barclays operations in South Africa, including Absa Group Limited, are responsibilities known as the ARROW model and the results of the risk assessment are used by the FSA to develop a risk mitigation programme for supervised and regulated by the South African Reserve Bank SARB and the Financial Services Board FSB.
SARB oversees the banking industry and a firm.
The FSA also promulgates requirements that banks and other financial institutions are required to meet on matters such as capital adequacy, limits follows a risk-based approach to supervision whilst the FSB oversees the non-banking financial services industry and focuses on enhancing consumer on large exposures to individual entities and groups of closely connected entities, liquidity and rules of business conduct.
protection and regulating market conduct.
In the United States, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays US The Banking Act 2009 the Banking Act provides a permanent regime to allow the FSA, the UK Treasury and the Bank of England to resolve failing banking subsidiaries are subject to a comprehensive regulatory structure involving numerous statutes, rules and regulations, including the International banks in the UK.
Under the Banking Act, these authorities are given powers, including a the power to issue share transfer orders pursuant to which Banking Act of 1978, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended BHC Act, the Foreign Bank Supervision Enhancement Act of 1991, the all or some of the securities issued by a bank may be transferred to a commercial purchaser or Bank of England entity and b the power to transfer Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001.
Such laws impose restrictions on the activities of Barclays, including all or some of the property, rights and liabilities of the UK bank to a purchaser or Bank of England entity.
A share transfer order can extend to a wide range its US banking subsidiaries and the Banks US branches, as well as prudential restrictions, such as limits on extensions of credit by the Banks US branches of securities including shares and bonds issued by a UK bank including Barclays Bank PLC or its holding company Barclays PLC and warrants and the US banking subsidiaries to affiliates.
The Banks New York and Florida branches are subject to extensive federal and state supervision and for such shares and bonds.
The Banking Act powers apply regardless of any contractual restrictions and compensation may be payable in the context regulation by the FRB and the New York and Florida banking supervisors.
Barclays Bank PLC also operates a federal agency in California that is licensed of both share transfer orders and property appropriation.
The Banking Act also gives the Bank of England the power to override, by and subject to regulation and examination by the OCC.
Barclays Bank Delaware, a Delaware-chartered commercial bank, is subject to supervision vary or impose contractual obligations between a UK bank or its holding company and its former group undertakings for reasonable consideration, in and regulation by the Delaware banking supervisor and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC.
Only the deposits of Barclays Bank Delaware order to enable any transferee or successor bank of the UK bank to operate effectively.
There is also power for the Treasury to amend the law excluding are insured by the FDIC.
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Group US Inc. are bank provisions made by or under the Banking Act for the purpose of enabling it to use the regime powers effectively, potentially with retrospective effect.
In holding companies registered with the FRB.
Each has elected to be treated as a financial holding company under the BHC Act.
Financial holding addition, the Banking Act gives the Bank of England statutory responsibility for financial stability in the UK and for the oversight of payment systems.
companies may engage in a broader range of financial and related activities than are permitted to registered bank holding companies that do not Banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions in the UK are subject to a single financial services compensation scheme the Financial maintain financial holding company status, including underwriting and dealing in all types of securities.
To maintain the financial holding company Services Compensation Scheme FSCS where an authorised firm is unable or is likely to be unable to meet claims made against it because of its status of each of Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Group US Inc. Barclays Bank PLC is required to meet or exceed certain capital ratios financial circumstances.
Most deposits made with branches of Barclays Bank PLC within the European Economic Area EEA which are denominated and to be deemed to be well managed.
Barclays Bank Delaware must also meet certain capital requirements, be deemed to be well managed in Sterling or other EEA currencies including the Euro are covered by the FSCS.
Most claims made in respect of investment business will also be and must have at least a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977. protected claims if the business was carried on from the UK or from a branch of the bank or investment firm in another EEA member state.
The FSCS is 146 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Risk management Supervision and regulation continued Barclays US securities broker dealer, investment advisory and to deal with issues related to financial stability and systemic risk.
It will also Investment banking operations are subject to ongoing supervision and place a duty on the FSA to make rules requiring financial institutions to regulation by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FINRA create and maintain Recovery and Resolution plans, require the FSA to make and other government agencies and self-regulatory organisations as part general rules about remuneration policies of regulated firms, give the FSA a of a comprehensive scheme of regulation of all aspects of the securities wider authority to prohibit short selling and permit collective court actions business under the US federal and state securities laws.
Barclays subsidiaries as a means by which redress can be sought in cases where there has been a in the US are also subject to regulation by applicable federal and state mass failure of practice that has affected significant numbers of consumers.
regulators of their activities in the mortgage servicing business.
The Financial Services Bill is currently going through the Parliamentary process and its likely final shape remains uncertain.
In response to the Regulatory Developments introduction of the Financial Services Bill, the Conservative Party indicated in In the wake of the financial crisis there will be regulatory change that will July 2009 that, were it to have a majority following the General Election that have a substantial impact on all financial institutions, including the Group.
must take place by early June 2010, it would transfer responsibility for The full extent of this impact and its timing is not yet fully clear, with reform prudential supervision to the Bank of England and create a Consumer programmes being developed at global, EU and national level.
A programme Protection Agency to focus on issues of business conduct.
to reform the global regulatory framework was agreed by G20 Heads of The Chancellor of the Exchequer commissioned two major reviews Government in April 2009, building on an agreement that had been reached of the regulation of banks that reported in 2009.
Lord Turner, the Chairman by the G20 in November 2008.
The EU is following a similar programme of the FSA was requested to undertake a review of banking regulation, while Sir David Walker was asked to review the corporate governance of financial of reform following the May 2008 roadmap and implementing G20 requirements.
There is a substantial degree of commonality to these institutions.
The Turner Review, published in March 2009, sets out a comprehensive approach to reform the regulation of banks, and for higher programmes covering issues of capital and liquidity regulation, risk management and accounting standards.
standards of capital, liquidity and risk management.
It also sets out a more intensive and intrusive approach to supervision.
This was already in The Financial Stability Board FSB has been designated by the G20 as the body responsible for co-ordinating the delivery of the reform development as part of the FSAs Supervisory Enhancement Programme that has seen an increase in the resources devoted to supervision, the intensity of programme.
It has initiated work developing guidelines for the supervision of systemically significant institutions.
It is required to present its proposals supervision and the penalties that may be applied in any enforcement action.
Pending international agreement, the FSA has unilaterally set minimum to the November 2010 meeting of G20 Heads of Government.
The FSB is also working on approaches to the resolution of systemically significant capital requirements that are very substantially increased from pre-crisis levels.
Similarly, the FSA is introducing a regulatory liquidity regime in advance institutions that will include the preparation of Recovery and Resolution Plans, sometimes called living wills.
Further detail is awaited from the FSB, of international agreement on the Basel proposals.
The Walker Review, published in November 2009, sets out proposals for reforms to the corporate although the FSA has initiated a pilot project with a group of large UK banks.
In execution of the mandate given by the G20 and the FSB, the Basel governance of financial institutions.
The Financial Services Bill referred to above will give the FSA enabling powers to implement some of these.
Committee on Banking Supervision has agreed on increased capital requirements for trading book activities to be introduced from the end In the United States, as elsewhere, recent market disruptions and economic conditions have led to numerous proposals for changes to and of 2010.
In December 2009, the Basel Committee issued proposals for consultation on enhanced capital and liquidity requirements.
These significant increases in the regulation of the financial services industry.
These proposals include: possible limitations on the activities of banking proposals would refine the definition of regulatory capital to have a greater focus on core equity, would enhance capital requirements in respect of institutions such as prohibitions on engaging in proprietary trading operations that are not related to serving customers: proposals that would counterparty risk, introduce measures to make capital requirements less procyclical, establish a leverage ratio and require banks to hold greater subject large and systemically important banks and financial institutions to enhanced regulatory requirements: and financial market and trading buffers of high quality liquid instruments.
The Basel Committee will conduct a quantitative impact study on its proposals in the course of the first half of reforms such as the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 2009, which was passed by the US House of Representatives in December 2009 2010, with a view to finalising its requirements by the end of the year and with the aim of commencing the transition to the new capital and liquidity and which would, if enacted, among other things, increase regulation of over-the-counter derivatives by imposing clearing and execution regime from the end of 2012.
The Basel Committees trading book proposals are being implemented requirements on swap dealers and major swap market participants.
However, these and other proposals are still under consideration and there in the EU by amendment to the Capital Requirements Directive CRD.
The CRD has also been amended to tighten the definition of hybrid capital is uncertainty as to whether and in what forms such proposals ultimately may be enacted or adopted and therefore what impact they will have on the and the operation of the large exposures regime in relation to interbank transactions.
The EU has indicated that it will further amend the CRD to Group and its businesses in the United States.
The Obama Administration has also proposed the levying of a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee FCRF.
implement revised global standards on capital adequacy and on liquidity that are being consulted on by the Basel Committee.
The EU will also The Administration has said that the FCRF will apply to the US subsidiaries of a foreign bank or financial company if the consolidated assets of the conduct a Europe-focused quantitative impact study.
In addition, other amendments are being made to the EU framework of directives, including US subsidiaries exceed 50bn.
As legislation implementing the FCRF has not yet been proposed, the impact of the FCRF on the Group cannot yet be to the Directive and to the Directive on Deposit Guarantee Schemes.
Further amendments to EU regulatory requirements are likely as the EU develops determined.
The credit card-related activities of the Group in the US will be its response to the financial crisis, including the structure of the regulatory system in Europe as proposed in the report of a high-level Commission significantly affected by the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 Credit CARD Act which was passed by Congress.
Among other things, it is proposed by the end of 2010 to create a European Banking Authority charged with the The Credit CARD Act will have the effect of restricting many credit card pricing and marketing practices.
Among the numerous provisions, which development of a single rulebook for banks in the EU.
National authorities will remain responsible for the supervision of financial institutions.
come into effect at various times through August 2010, are those that prohibit increasing rates on existing balances and over limit fees in most In the UK, the Treasury issued a White Paper Reforming Financial Markets in July 2009 that foreshadowed the introduction of a Financial instances, restrict increasing fees and rates prospectively, restrict what penalty fees can be assessed, regulate how payments are to be allocated Services Bill in November.
The Financial Services Bill will, among other things, create a Council for Financial Stability to co-ordinate the activities of to different balances and how the billing process is to work, and revises all communications to cardholders.
the UK tripartite authorities HM Treasury, the FSA and the Bank of England
