Risk management Beazleys risk management culture is integral to the way we run our business.
This has resulted in Beazley receiving a Strong Standard and Poors rating for risk management, ranking our practices in the top 15% of companies rated by them.
Nicholas Furlonge Director, risk management What does risk management mean for Beazley?
At Beazley, we operate an enterprise wide risk management culture that is integral to the way we run our business.
Our business is based on controlled and informed risk taking across a diverse range of specialist classes of insurance.
Our risk appetite allocation methodology is clearly understood and articulated to ensure that where appropriate it is fully utilised to give maximum reward.
Our framework is centred on the following principles: Transparency to ensure all risks are clearly understood, measured and controlled by setting limits and monitoring against these: Accountability the organisational structure ensures all risks are owned by appropriate individuals and everyone takes responsibility for managing their risks: and Culture to promote a risk aware culture and to ensure that every decision we take is based upon an evaluation of risk versus reward.
This strong culture of risk management has resulted in Beazley receiving a Strong Standard and Poors rating for risk management, which ranks our practices in the top 15% of companies rated by them.
Risk governance and reporting The board of directors the board has the responsibility for defining the groups risk appetite, with key individuals and committees accountable for day-to-day management of risks and controls.
Regular reporting and active participation by the risk management team in all board meetings and senior management committees ensures that risks are monitored and managed as they arise.
In addition, Nicholas Furlonge, director of risk management, directly represents the risk management team on the board, which further demonstrates the importance Beazley has placed on the risk management function.
2009 year in review The risk management and actuarial teams were combined to further increase our focus on the management of insurance risk across the group.
This combined group enables us to more accurately analyse both the quantitative impact and effectiveness of key underwriting and operational controls and help us to focus our attention on those controls that really matter.
The combination of the risk management and actuarial functions has specifically benefited the development of an industry leading individual capital assessment ICA framework.
Risk management has been able to take credit for the strength of internal business controls in the ICA.
For example specialty lines implemented a comprehensive set of underwriting controls that were recognised in the ICA model.
In addition, risk management uses the ICA output to allocate capital, target classes of business and policies with high returns on capital and as a tool to help target consistent reserve strength across years and classes.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Managing the cycle Market cycle risk is characterised by the periodic rise and fall in insurance prices and is driven largely by changes in supply and demand rather than the actual cost of cover.
The cycle varies between a soft market where insurance is readily available and premium rates fall as a result of increased competition and a hard market, where clients find insurance coverage more difficult to obtain and rates rise and terms and conditions become more restrictive.
Our focus on managing market cycle risk lies at the heart of our underwriting philosophy and this is demonstrated by our strong and consistent trading record.
On a day-to-day basis, market cycle risk is managed in the following ways: Cascaded peer review and underwriter challenge monitoring of individual risks against limits allocated to each underwriter and performing a second pair of eyes check to ensure that there is sufficient oversight of the whole portfolio and that it remains in line with the business plan: Business planning transitioning the portfolio of business to ensure a sufficiently diverse range of good quality products, whose profitability is aligned to the correct position in the cycle.
During a hard market we maximise profits by targeting growth on the best opportunities available and in a soft market we focus our portfolio on less volatile business: Reserving having a clear view of the underlying profitability of individual products with transparent links to capital allocation: and Rate adequacy and benchmark pricing quantitative monitoring of risks to ensure that we are charging appropriate premiums for the risks we are taking.
Catastrophe risk Catastrophe risk is assessed both in terms of modelled losses and the risk of losing more than expected through poor exposure management.
Our portfolio is analysed for classes of business where accumulations of losses can result from a single or a series of large catastrophic events.
Catastrophe risk is managed through: Risk appetite setting and monitoring of exposures risk appetite limits are defined in the business planning process and set by the board and calculated on a probabilistic basis using vendor catastrophe models.
We acknowledge the uncertainty present within these models and therefore also monitor deterministic output using Lloyds realistic disaster scenarios RDSs and our aggregate position to stress test our book.
Risk appetite is set based upon the impact on earnings and capital, whilst being mindful of potential opportunities that exist following the event: and Individual risk monitoring in certain classes of business we model the impact of individual property locations to our overall exposure prior to quoting to ensure we are not creating accumulations of risk and to ensure we are receiving an appropriate minimum premium on catastrophe exposed business.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 47 Risk management continued Asset risk Asset risk is viewed as the risk arising from adverse changes in the value of our income from assets and changes in exchange rates and interest rates.
Through setting comprehensive investment guidelines via the investment committee and monitoring against these, reviewing the performance of the investment managers and stress testing our investment portfolio, we can assess if our overall risk and return targets are being met.
To minimise the risk of an event impacting both our claims liabilities and our investment portfolios, we endeavour to limit investments in areas which correlate with our insurance portfolios.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that we do not have sufficient financial resources to meet our obligations as they fall due.
Strategically, we seek to maintain sufficient liquid assets or assets that can be liquidated at short notice and without capital loss to meet our expected cash flow requirements.
Our RDSs are stress tested on a regular basis.
Credit risk Our exposure to credit risk is mitigated by vetting all of our key counterparties before trading with them.
Performance is closely monitored and managed through our committee structure.
We consider our key counterparties to be reinsurers and brokers as outlined below: Reinsurers exposure monitored by the reinsurance security committee and ratings assigned to each reinsurer according to internally agreed criteria: and Brokers robust broker approval process underpinned by Lloyds registration process.
Operational risk Operational risk arises from the risk of losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, service providers or from external events.
The group actively manages operational risks and minimises them where appropriate by implementing and communicating guidelines to staff and other third parties.
The impact of control failure is quantified and compared to the effectiveness of these controls to allow us to see where our attention should be focussed.
The quantitative impact of operational risk, and those controls designed to mitigate those risks, are captured in the ICA process so that there is a clear link between operational risk and its financial impact on the business.
Emerging risk identification We employ specialist teams to support our underwriters to help identify external trends and issues.
Using this research improves our underwriting risk selection, allows us to avoid markets in decline and improves our claims management capabilities.
An example of the businesss emerging risk process is our recession plan, which sets out the underwriting actions required in the light of the recent downturn in the economy.
Specific risks were identified by class of business and the portfolio was adjusted and specific underwriting actions were taken to mitigate negative impacts.
Internal audit and compliance Our internal audit and compliance teams work closely with the risk management team and the business to co-ordinate activity, avoid duplication and deliver a targeted risk-based approach.
In addition to the linking of risk management and actuarial and the specific controls that are imbedded within the business, these functions create three lines of defence against risks facing Beazley.
