50 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Risk Management and Internal Control The Board places a high priority on a strong The Management Committee which Portfolio risk management risk management culture within the Group.
comprises the executive directors relies Ultimate responsibility for investment risk lies The Board recognises that risk is inherent in on the support provided by three internal with the Risk Committee, which is chaired the Groups business and the markets in which committees to assist it in carrying out its by the Chief Investment Officer.
Effective risk management and responsibilities: includes the Chief Operating Officer, the strong internal controls are therefore central The Investment Committee which is Head of Risk and the Head of Hedge Fund to the Groups business model.
responsible for reviewing the investment Strategies.
The Risk Committee operates strategies of each of the portfolio under defined Terms of Reference and meets The tone of BlueBays internal control management teams and is described at least once a month.
environment is set through: in more detail in the Investment risk a clear definition of management and management section.
The Risk Committee is responsible for: staff responsibilities, with reporting lines The Risk Committee which is responsible setting policies relating to BlueBays incorporating segregation of duties: for reviewing the investment risks and risk management framework: recruitment procedures to ensure that performance of client portfolios and is establishing mandates and guidelines BlueBay recruits only staff of appropriate described in more detail in the Portfolio for BlueBay fund products: skills and experience: risk management section.
providing ongoing review and oversight transaction processing functions that The Compliance and Control Committee of investment risks and performance: focus on timely processing and recording which is responsible for BlueBays approving all counterparty relationships: of investment transactions, including the operational risk management processes and maintenance of consistent records and and internal control framework and approving new products.
accurate reporting of holdings to clients: is described in more detail in the proactive and  Operational risk management section.
Senior portfolio managers are accountable compliance and risk management teams: for all risks assumed within their area of and The main risks and the way they are responsibility.
They must ensure appropriate the encouragement of a culture of managed are described below: risk management discipline within the openness and mutual trust between framework of policy and guidelines colleagues.
Investment risk management established by the Risk Committee.
One of BlueBays key corporate objectives The Board is ultimately responsible for the is to generate attractive risk-adjusted Day-to-day independent assessment and risk management process at BlueBay.
This investment performance over the term monitoring of investment risk and policy responsibility is primarily fulfilled by two of of the credit cycle.
The investment process is provided by the Risk and Performance its sub-committees: the Audit Committee, is designed to help meet this objective.
This department is functionally which is responsible for the oversight of the independent from the investment business risk management process and for assessing The investment process combines a series and reports to the Chief Operating Officer.
its effectiveness for BlueBay: and the of top-down inputs with bottom-up security The Risk Committee ensures that the Management Committee, which is responsible specific analysis.
The top-down inputs are department has the appropriate resources for the identification, assessment and provided through the Investment Committee, and tools available to perform their function.
which comprises all senior portfolio managers and the Chief Investment Officer.
It meets on Each portfolio management team is a regular basis to formulate a common view responsible for ensuring its portfolio is in on the macro-economic backdrop and compliance with client investment restrictions.
market conditions against which BlueBay To assist them in this task, the investment makes its investment decisions.
Each of the restrictions which govern positions in securities portfolio management teams comprises a and relate to the majority of the portfolio's number of dedicated credit analysts who investment transactions are programmed into are sub-asset class specialists.
BlueBay's portfolio management system, the Charles River Investment Management System the Portfolio Management System.
C I F I S C E E C P U S R I Y T T Y Directors Review 51 Figure 12 Risk management and internal control Investment Risk Non-security specific committee management top-down inputs Security specific bottom-up inputs Portfolio management Execution Credit & financing research Portfolio managers originate orders but do The compliance team monitors the Liquidity risk management not execute trades.
This is done by the trade compliance of portfolios with investment Client liquidity risk is managed by monitoring execution desk, a team made up of dedicated guidelines on an ongoing post-trade basis the amount of available cash held in each traders with specialised market knowledge using Charles River or alternative methods client on a daily basis and targeting an by sub-asset class.
The execution team receives where the guidelines cannot be programmed amount that is deemed to be sufficient to orders which are then traded in the market.
cover the cash needs of the clients including The segregation of the portfolio management margin payments and potential redemptions and trade execution functions is an integral Market risk management under stressed market conditions without and fundamental part of BlueBay's risk Risk is measured by calculating the sensitivity being forced to liquidate assets.
of every trade or position to changes in the relevant risk factors.
On a daily basis, a set The Groups liquidity risk is also monitored The majority of the investment guidelines and of standard risk reports is produced and on a daily basis to ensure that it has the restrictions are programmed into the Portfolio distributed to the portfolio management ability to meet its current and anticipated Management System by the compliance teams and the Management Committee.
short and long-term financial liabilities.
Any guidelines or restrictions that These daily risk reports include sensitivities business has continued to be cash generative cannot be programmed into Charles River are to relevant risk factors, an assessment of under the stressed market conditions monitored using alternative methods adopted overall value at risk VaR and the VaR experienced during the financial year.
or reviewed by the compliance team.
contribution of every position and a range of historical and customised stress tests.
Counterparty credit risk management When a portfolio manager enters an On a regular basis the results are back BlueBay funds only enter into over-theinvestment order in the Portfolio Management tested in order to validate the risk figures.
counter OTC derivative transactions System, the system runs a compliance check with highly rated institutions with which on the order before electronically passing it Independent risk monitoring is carried out they have signed International Swap Dealers to the BlueBay trade execution team.
Trade by the Risk and Performance Department.
orders for certain securities, including loans The department uses RiskManager, an Each new OTC and Delivery Versus Payment and swaps, are transmitted to the execution application developed by the RiskMetrics DVP counterparty requires the approval team by Bloomberg or email, rather than Group.
RiskManager models every of the Risk Committee before a trade with in Charles River, which means that these instrument as a function of underlying risk that counterparty may be executed.
The securities are not subject to pre-trade factors, i. e. interest rates, credit spreads, FX Risk Committee reviews the credit rating, compliance checking in Charles River.
The rates, equity prices and implied volatilities.
financial condition and regulatory status post-executed trade details are input to of the counterparty: details of any legal or Charles River by the trade execution desk.
Senior management monitor the Groups regulatory action based on publicly available exposure to foreign exchange risk on a information : and the Financial Action Task If the executed order were to bring a portfolio regular basis and take appropriate measures, Force status of the country in which the holding close to an investment limit, the by way of derivative contracts, to mitigate counterparty is situated.
The Risk Committee Portfolio Management System would issue a any such risk if it is considered necessary.
The approves the counterparty if it considers warning which the portfolio manager has to Group does not have any debt financing and the counterparty to be of sufficiently override in order to transmit the trade to the is therefore not exposed to interest rate risk.
If the executed order were to cause a breach of an investment restriction, the Portfolio Management System would issue an alert which the portfolio manager would be unable to override and transmission of the order to the trade execution team would be prevented.
Occasionally, there are circumstances where an alert may be justifiably overridden but this can only be carried out by a member of the compliance team.
I R S U P C E E C S I - F I N C O N 52 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Failure of a counterparty including, as Operational risk management During the course of the financial year, the applicable, prime brokers, custodians, The Groups Compliance and Control Committee carried out three major initiatives: derivatives dealers, trading, cash management Committee is responsible for safeguarding Review and update of the Groups internal and depositor counterparties can have a the capital of the Company by ensuring that control procedures.
In the UK, asset serious impact on the performance of a client appropriate high level standards, systems managers internal control procedures portfolio.
We use various techniques to and controls are established and maintained are typically reviewed by external mitigate this risk, such as credit assessment, to enable the Company to minimise the risk reporting accountants in accordance netting under ISDA agreements, collateral of financial crime and breach of legal or with the framework set out by the Audit management and diversification.
This is done by and Assurance Faculty of the Institute team provides accurate measurement of identifying the major risks to which the Group of Chartered Accounts in England and all exposures and ongoing assessment is exposed and by developing cost-effective Wales ICAEW in its Technical Release of the credit quality of OTC and depositor policy proposals to manage those risks.
The AAF01 06 on Assurance Reports on counterparties via monitoring of their credit Committee is responsible for developing and Internal Controls of Service Organisations default swap spreads.
refining BlueBays internal control policies Made Available to Third Parties.
The Committee comprises prepared its second AAF 01 06 report for Counterparty risk is measured as the net the senior infrastructure managers, the head the period 1 April 2008 to 31 March replacement value of open OTC contracts, of the trade execution desk, the Compliance 2009.
The Company took the opportunity unsettled trades, margins and deposits, Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and is to review and further enhance its internal taking into account any collateral we may chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
Limits on counterparty risk, which Review and update of the Groups are monitored daily, ensure that no client is The purpose of the Committee is to: compliance manual and procedures.
The unduly exposed to any single counterparty.
identify material compliance, operational, Committee reviewed and approved the control and other non-investment related June 2009 updated version of BlueBays The Group is exposed to credit risk with respect risks to which BlueBay is subject: compliance manual.
The compliance to its cash and cash equivalents being held review the effectiveness of the policies policies were updated to incorporate new with major UK banks.
Cash is held in several and procedures to manage and mitigate FSA guidance and changes in industry accounts, with transactions and balances those risks: and practices.
The Committee also ratified monitored on a daily basis.
The return and risk enhance staff awareness of the risks a number of new and updated BlueBay associated with the accounts are reviewed by and mitigating policies and procedures.
policies which are provided to our clients, senior management in the light of available including the BlueBay Order Execution market information.
Policy and the BlueBay Conflicts of Interest Policy.
The Group is also exposed to counterparty Annual review and update of the Group's credit risk in regards to the settlement of risk register.
management and performance fees owed by related parties and segregated mandates.
The Groups counterparty credit risk exposure is managed by the Financial Control department.
Directors Review 53 Compliance keeping senior management informed Internal control reviews: AAF In addition to maintaining the investment of regulatory changes and issues PwC acted as reporting accountant for restrictions for each mandate in the Portfolio impacting the business: the AAF 01 06 report for 1 April 2008 to Management System, the department working with senior management to 31 March 2009.
PwC reported on the design performs a monitoring role focusing on ensure that compliance arrangements are of control procedures and the achievement procedures and controls in place to ensure appropriate and that any regulatory issues of specified control objectives if the described compliance with applicable legal and arising are appropriately addressed: and control procedures were complied with.
The compliance serving as the primary contact with They also reported on the effectiveness of arrangements which are designed to promote external regulators.
the control procedures which were tested.
compliance with regulations are set out in BlueBays compliance manual.
The compliance Disaster recovery and backup procedures Internal audit reviews manual incorporates the code of ethics which The Group operates a robust disaster The Company appointed KPMG to provide includes policies on personal account dealing, recovery platform that is tested twice a year.
internal audit services to the Company.
gifts and entertainment and insider trading In the event of a local disaster, or failure to KPMG completed a number of reviews policies.
All staff are required to sign an gain access to the Groups current location, during the course of the financial year, undertaking that they are familiar with and SunGard Availability Services provide a the findings of which were presented will comply with the compliance manual.
dedicated workspace for the Groups use.
The Group currently has several methods of The key responsibilities of the compliance server and data recovery in place which vary Audit Committee team are: depending on the nature of the event.
This The Audit Committee conducted a review ensuring that business is conducted in includes an off-site high availability facility of the Internal Control and Risk Management accordance with FSA and other applicable which hosts replicated services for core procedures in accordance with the Turnbull regulations through implementation of servers and trade systems.
For further details of the policies designed to promote compliance for the Groups file server, email and core activities of the Audit Committee please refer with regulations and education of trading systems are resident at the high to the appropriate section in the Corporate employees on those requirements: availability site.
Independent tape backups Governance Report on page 39. ensuring that investment mandates are are also maintained.
managed in accordance with applicable regulations and mandate restrictions: The Group has uninterruptible power sources reviewing and monitoring changes in at head office for all desktops, servers and regulations and laws and ensuring update communications equipment.
In case of any of policies and communication of relevant power failures, a backup power generator changes to the business units: is available for all the Groups systems and monitoring of business areas to determine the head office, capable of running for a whether compliance policies and period of at least eight hours.
The Group regulatory requirements have been has invested substantially in a robust server complied with: environment with redundant cooling, assisting in the resolution of rule breaches advanced monitoring, plus fire and leak and client complaints and following up detection and fire suppression.
to ensure that controls are amended to prevent recurrence:
