Server: studio 2 Set up: rich First Read Revisions Ser Serv v 22 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties The groups approach to risk risk management at all levels of the Increasing bad debt charges within management is outlined in the organisation.
It also strives to the Banking division as a result of the Governance section of this Annual demonstrate the highest level of inability of customers to repay loans Report on page 32. integrity in all its activities and and decreasing values of underlying dedicates significant senior securities.
As a diversified financial services group, management time and other resources Lower trading volumes in our financial risk management and financial to ensure all employees are aware of the market-making businesses.
instruments are central to the groups need to display the highest ethical activities.
The risks arising from the use standards in their day to day work.
Write downs to group assets as of financial instruments and present values of future cash flows quantitative information associated Economic Conditions reduce due to reductions in with those risks are further explained in The group engages in a diversified range economic activity.
note 33 to the Financial Statements on of activities within the financial services pages 89 to 95. industry, with the majority of The group has historically operated a transactions undertaken within the UK.
conservative business model and has The principal risks and uncertainties As such the group has an exposure to traded profitably in the 2009 financial currently faced by the group are global economic conditions generally year despite worsening economic outlined below.
The risks outlined are and to economic conditions in the UK in conditions.
While there is limited those that the group believes have the particular.
Economic conditions visibility on future economic conditions, potential to have a significant deteriorated significantly during the the groups risk management, internal detrimental impact on its financial latter part of 2008 and in 2009 and the control systems and overall business performance and future prospects.
model are designed so as to enable it to They should not be regarded as a The impact of poor economic conditions continue to trade profitably through comprehensive list of all the risks and on the groups customers and markets downturns in the economic cycle.
uncertainties the group may potentially has the potential to adversely impact face which could adversely impact the groups financial performance and its performance.
prospects, as well as increasing other risks.
Specific examples of how a Reputation weakened economy could affect the The group considers a loss of reputation group include but are not limited to: to be the most significant risk to a business operating in the financial Reduced demand for the groups services sector.
products in both the Banking and Asset Management divisions.
The group believes that the risk to its Failure of an institution where the reputation would arise as a result of a groups or client funds have been failure to manage the groups other risks invested.
and places the highest importance on U07387 pp20-24.
indd 22 30 9 09 18:34:04 30 9 09 18:34:04 Ser Server: ver: studio studio 2 2 Set Set up: up: rich rich First First Read Revisions Read Revisions Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 23 Credit Counterparty Risk Funding Regulation The group has loans and advances to, The group requires access to sources of The group operates in a highly and has purchased debt securities from, funding to support its client lending and regulated environment.
The regulatory a number of financial institutions.
A in order to grow its business.
Significant environment is expected to change failure of one or more of these uncertainty around credit markets significantly in the near future in institutions could have a material remains following the dislocation in response to the banking crisis of late impact on the groups financial position.
those markets seen in the second half of 2008.
The uncertainty over the exact 2008 which continued into 2009.
Access details of these changes, the potential The credit quality of the counterparties to the wholesale credit markets, which for increased capital requirements and with whom the group places deposits or the group has historically utilised to fund the costs associated with compliance whose debt securities the group holds is a significant proportion of its lending to with changes to the regulatory monitored by the Treasury Committee.
customers, has been and remains environment all have the potential to The Committee establishes maximum severely restricted.
In addition, the cost impact on the groups earnings.
individual counterparty limits which are of wholesale funding, where available, monitored on a daily basis.
There is The group monitors regulatory assessing the suitability of counterparties, significant uncertainty, particularly in developments and engages in dialogue the Committee has regard to, inter alia, the short term, over the levels of with regulatory authorities on a regular the following factors: funding that will be available to the basis and continues to maintain a group via the wholesale credit markets.
conservative model with a strong, well Stability of the underlying economy capitalised balance sheet and believes it of the country in which the institution The group has responded to these is well placed to react to regulatory is domiciled.
challenging and volatile conditions by change.
increasingly borrowing via the retail The scale of the institution and market to augment its traditional Each of the groups regulated businesses the level of support it is expected wholesale funding.
In the year ended has a dedicated compliance officer who to attract in the event of 31 July 2009, the group raised is responsible for supporting the financial difficulties.
1.8 billion in the wholesale and retail business in meeting its regulatory The credit rating of the entity.
Only markets and was granted eligibility to compliance objectives and for executing AA rated entities are considered access the Governments Credit risk-based monitoring programmes to suitable as new counterparties.
The Guarantee Scheme, which provides a confirm compliance.
The activities of Committee reviews the ongoing further potential source of medium these compliance professionals are suitability of any counterparty which term funding.
As a result, the group co-ordinated and overseen on a group is subsequently downgraded.
believes it is well placed to continue to wide basis by the head of group be able to access the funding required.
compliance to whom they report.
The Banking divisions lending activities give rise to credit risk.
This credit risk is Liquidity Operational Risk controlled by a number of local credit The group requires cash resources to In common with any large financial committees within centrally set limits of support client lending, trading activities services group operational risk, which is authority.
Transactions above those and investments.
The liquidity of the defined as the risk of loss or other limits are considered by a group level group is managed so as to ensure that material adverse impact resulting from credit committee.
the group is always able to meet its failed internal processes, people and liabilities as they fall due.
However, in systems, or from external events, is The group adheres to strict lending the event of a sudden loss of confidence inherent in the groups operations on an criteria and places significant emphasis in the groups liquidity position causing on-going basis.
on the quality of any security provided.
a rapid withdrawal of customer deposits, In addition, the loan book is diversified, the groups ability to continue to pursue The group has implemented an short term and the majority of lending is its business objectives could be placed operational risk management secured.
Because the groups loan book at risk.
framework designed to ensure that is spread over a large number of operational risks are assessed, counterparties with a low average loan The groups policy has been to finance mitigated and reported in a consistent size, there are very few individual loans customer loans and advances by capital manner across the group.
The group has with the capacity to have a material and reserves, longer-term deposits and adopted a formal approach to impact on the groups earnings.
committed facilities with only limited operational risk event reporting which financing from shorter-term deposits.
involves the identification of an event, Exposure within the Securities division is This policy is kept under review by the assessment of its materiality, analysis of limited as the businesses trade in the Treasury Committee which monitors the cause, establishment of remedial cash markets with regulated counterparties compliance on a daily basis.
This policy, action required and escalation to on a delivery versus payment basis such the average duration of the groups divisional or group level risk committees that any credit exposure is limited to borrowings 24 months versus for monitoring of implementation.
The price movements in the underlying twelve months for the loan book and group is also exposed to fraud risk both securities.
Counterparty exposure and the groups success in raising term retail internal and external and has continued settlement failure monitoring controls funds since 31 July 2008 all lead the to review and enhance its anti-fraud are in place.
group to believe it is in a strong position controls.
with respect to liquidity risk.
indd 23 30 9 09 18:34:10 30 9 09 18:34:10 Server: studio 2 Set up: rich First Read Revisions 24 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Employees Interest Rates Foreign Exchange The success of the group is closely Interest income is a substantial The majority of the groups activities are aligned to the abilities and experience of proportion of the groups revenues.
located in the British Isles and are its employees.
The earnings of the Movements in interest rates have the transacted in sterling.
The group does group could be adversely affected by potential to materially affect the groups however have material currency assets the loss of the services of certain key earnings.
and liabilities primarily due to a range of teams or individuals.
The ability of the currency services offered by the group to attract and retain key The groups policy is to match fixed and Banking division.
These currency assets personnel is critical to the groups variable interest rate liabilities and and liabilities are principally certificates prospects in the medium and long assets utilising interest rate swaps of deposit, floating rate notes and term.
Interest rate lending as well as borrowings and mismatch policies are established by the customer deposits.
The foreign In order to manage these risks, the Treasury Committee with compliance exchange exposures arising from these group seeks to create an open and monitored daily.
Returns from the assets and liabilities are managed by supportive working environment for its groups capital and reserves are matching assets and liabilities by employees.
Reward and incentive necessarily subject to interest rate currency and the limited use of foreign schemes are regularly reviewed in order fluctuations and as a matter of policy currency swaps.
Exposures are to ensure the group is successful in are not hedged.
monitored daily against centrally attracting and retaining the calibre of authorised limits.
The group does not employees necessary to meet its Securities Derivative Trading take speculative proprietary positions in objectives, while aligning such schemes The groups securities businesses are foreign currency.
with risk, compliance and treating exposed to market movements deriving customers fairly objectives.
The group from trading in equity and fixed income The group also has a number of has succession plans for key employees.
Senior management is overseas subsidiaries, a US dollar closely involved in risk management investment in its associate Mako and Technology processes which are also monitored at two seed capital investments within A number of the groups banking and group level.
There are controls, currency denominated funds.
The securities trading businesses are highly supplemented by cash limits, on exposure from these investments is reliant on their IT infrastructure in their individual large or slow moving equity relatively modest and is not currently daily operations.
The ability to continue or fixed income positions.
A sensitivity analysis on foreign to compete in many of the markets the controls on the size and risk profile of currency exposures is shown on page 93. group operates in necessitates an ability trading books and of individual books to respond to new technology.
Failure to within these are maintained.
Pandemic keep up to date in a number of the A pandemic has the potential to groups businesses could lead to a Treasury operations do not trade materially impact the groups ability to material impact on the groups actively in money market instruments maintain service at levels acceptable to earnings.
All of the groups businesses although they are held for liquidity its customers and may impact on rely on the existence of secure and purposes.
The group has established plans to react Each of the businesses continually invest to a potential pandemic and keeps in their IT platforms to ensure they are these plans under constant review.
up to date and fit for purpose for the markets they operate in.
Additionally, disaster recovery plans are in place with alternative business locations maintained to enable the businesses to respond in a timely manner to a disaster event.
The groups overall exposure is further mitigated by individual businesses maintaining discrete IT systems rather than group wide IT platforms.
