THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 Analysed for Relative Performance Before and After Change of Manager on 15 September 2008 The capital net asset value used below is the capital net asset value at par, less proposed dividends.
FOR YEAR CAPITAL RETURN BASIS BEFORE CHANGE AFTER CHANGE ENDED OF MANAGER OF MANAGER 31 MARCH 2009 %% % Net asset value capital return 7.6 26.3 31.9 Benchmark total return 5.8 28.0 32.2 Relative performance 1.8 1.7 0.3 Performance attribution analyses the Companys performance relative to its benchmark.
Portfolio under outperformance measures the relative effect of the Companys investment portfolio against that of its benchmark.
Net gearing effect measures the impact of the debenture stocks and cash on the Companys relative performance.
Interest arising from the debenture stocks reduces the assets available to invest, resulting in a negative impact on performance.
Management fees including both the base fee and any performance fee, reduce the Company net assets and decrease performance.
Refund of VAT on management fees, and interest thereon, will add to net assets and thus performance.
Other expenses and tax reduce the level of assets and therefore result in a negative effect for relative performance.
Share buy backs measures the effect of shares bought back on the Companys relative performance.
Invesco Perpetuals Investment Process and Performance At the core of the Investment Manager, Neil Woodford's investment philosophy is a belief in active investment management.
Fundamental principles drive a genuinely unconstrained investment approach, which aims to deliver attractive total returns over the long term.
These fundamendal principles place an emphasis on sound balance sheets, good cash flows, the ability to pay and sustain dividends, good asset bases and market conditions.
The Investment Manager and the UK Equities team employ a pragmatic, valuation-orientated approach that allows investment freedom, such that the Investment Manager can select stocks free from the constraint of the holdings within an index.
The Investment Managers focus is on absolute rather than relative returns, as he prefers to adopt an un-weighted view of the market and to invest where he sees value and opportunity.
The aim of the investment process is to find companies whose outlook or growth prospects are not reflected in their valuations.
To identify these companies the Investment Manager combines bottom-up research with a top-down macro-economic view.
Stocks are then subjected to detailed fundamental analysis augmented by a qualitative assessment of the company.
The output from this analysis is then used to construct and review the portfolio with the aim of maximising exposure to the most attractively valued ideas within its risk parameters.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board is ultimately responsible for risk control systems but the day to day operation and monitoring is delegated to the Manager.
Market risk The uncertainty over future equity market price movements is an inherent part of the rationale for the Companys existence.
The Companys objectives and the means of attaining them are reviewed annually.
The Companys portfolio consists of a mix of assets and securities that may display high levels of volatility from time to time in response to economic and other market forces.
The Board receives the Managers performance report against this background on a monthly basis and reviews it at each Board meeting.
20 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW continued Performance risk The Board sets risk parameters and performance objectives and it delegates the investment management process to the Manager.
The achievement of the Companys performance objectives relative to the market requires active management of the portfolio of assets and securities.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection decisions by the Manager might lead to underperformance of the benchmark Index and income targets.
The Managers style may result in significant overweight or underweight positions in individual stocks or sectors compared to the index, and therefore the performance of the portfolio may deviate significantly from that of the benchmark index.
Investment selection is delegated to the Manager.
The Manager manages the portfolio and the Board sets overall risk parameters, without specifying asset allocation, monitoring performance in that context.
Performance information is provided to the Board on a monthly basis.
Specific information provided includes benchmark and performance objectives, rolling three year performance, largest holdings, size and sector analysis and cash holdings.
The Manager is responsible for actively monitoring the portfolio selected in accordance with the Boards parameters and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
A review of performance risk and how it relates to the Companys objectives is undertaken annually.
Gearing risk The Company has the ability to invest up to 200 million from its Debenture Stocks in the equity market.
The principal gearing risk is that the level of gearing may have an adverse impact on performance.
Secondary risks relate to whether the cost of gearing is too high and whether the length of gearing is appropriate.
The Manager has full discretion over the amount of cash from the Companys Debenture Stocks to be invested in the equity market.
Information related to gearing is provided to the Board as part of the Board papers.
The Board regularly reviews the level of gearing.
Additionally, the Board regularly reviews the cost of buying back debt.
Income dividend risk The Company is subject to the risk that income generation from its investments fails to meet the level of income required to meet its objectives.
The Board monitors this risk through the review of detailed income forecasts and comparison against budget.
These are contained within the Board papers.
The Board considers the level of income at each meeting.
Share price risk There is a risk that the Companys prospects and NAV may not be fully reflected in the share price from time to time.
The share price is monitored on a daily basis.
The Board is empowered to repurchase shares within agreed parameters.
The discount at which the shares trade to NAV can be influenced by share repurchases.
The Company has in the last year repurchased shares within parameters set by the Board.
Control systems risk The Board delegates a number of specific risk control activities to the Manager including: the management of the relationship with the custodian in respect of the custody and security of the Companys assets: financial controls: best practice standards in fund management operations: and meeting regulatory requirements.
Consequently in respect of these activities the Company is dependent on the Managers control systems and those of its Custodian and Registrars, both of which are monitored by the Manager in the context of safeguarding the Companys assets and interests.
There is a risk that the Manager fails to ensure that these controls are performed in a satisfactory manner.
A risk-based programme of internal audits is carried out by the Manager regularly to test the controls environment.
An internal controls report providing an assessment of these risks is prepared by the Manager and considered by the Audit Committee, and is formally reported to and considered by the Board.
