F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 13 Business Review Managing risk Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Directors are committed to a strong control environment throughout the Group.
F&C has a Managing culture that emphasises the importance of rigorous disciplines and procedures to safeguard risk the interests of our clients, and other key stakeholders.
Key risk Mitigation Deterioration in the world economies Deterioration in the global economic environment is likely to The Group manages a wide range of clients across a adversely impact F&Cs ability to attract and retain clients.
diverse asset base and a number of geographic territories.
Falling market levels and asset values have a direct impact on our revenues.
Failure of the Groups operational platforms Failure in the operational platforms would, at least in the The Group has a detailed Business Continuity Plan that is short term, adversely impact client service and the abiity to tested annually.
All departments have their own manage client assets.
Departmental Continuity Plans to ensure the business can continue to operate if an incident occurs at any of the Groups locations.
Weaknesses within the front office control processes There are inherent risks in managing client assets.
These Further progress has been made in relation to pre and post include a failure to manage client assets in accordance with trade compliance to mandate checking.
Also, further the investment remit determined by the client.
Ineffective functionality has been built into eFunds the system used to front office control processes could lead to inaccurate record all client information to ensure that the eFunds investment decision making and errors.
system is able to fully capture and accurately reflect all client requirements and restrictions.
This aids both compliance to mandate checking and also improves our client servicing proposition.
Loss of key clients The success of the Group depends on the relationships it Long-term contracts are in place with our key strategic has with its clients.
The retention of clients and the winning clients and a number of new initiatives focussing on new of new mandates is often driven by historical performance business opportunities have been agreed.
In addition, and the quality of client service.
investment performance has improved significantly over the course of 2009.
Loss of key employees The success of the Group depends on the support of its The Group operates competitive share plans and employees.
The loss of key employees could lead to client benchmarks the total cash component of compensation to outflows and the loss of key mandates, may prevent the market data.
All employees receive an annual appraisal Company from winning new business and potentially which reviews their performance against clearly defined expose the Group to greater risk of regulatory, financial or objectives.
F& F&C C A As ss set et Manag Management ement A An nn nu ual al Repo Repor rt t an and d F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s 2 20 00 09 9 14 14 B Bus usiines ness s O Revi verew view Ou W r el val co ues: me tfr ho e m fotu hn e dat Ch io ai nrs man of excellence Bu Busi sin ness ess Rev Reviiew ew Go Gov ver ern nan ance ce F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s S Sh har areh eho ollder der IIn nfo for rmat matiio on n Commercial innovation Our values: the foundations of excellence F& F&C C A As ss set et Manag Management ement A An nn nu ual al Repo Repor rt t an and d F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s 2 20 00 09 9 15 15 B Bus usiines ness s R Oevi verew view Ou W r el val co ues: me tfr ho e m fotu hn e dat Ch io ai nrs man of excellence Bu Busi sin ness ess Rev Reviiew ew Go Gov ver ern nan ance ce F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s S Sh har areh eho ollder der IIn nfo for rmat matiio on n Innovation is perhaps the most critical capability for continuing success.
We encourage our people to constantly challenge the way things are done, to improve service and the results they deliver to our clients.
