iv make recommendations to the Board in relation Company use different audit firms.
On the basis of its to the re-appointment of the Auditors and assessment, the Audit Committee has recommended to approve their remuneration and terms of the continuing appointment of the Auditors to the engagement: Board.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed the v review and monitor the Auditors independence provision of non-audit services, which cost 119,000 and objectivity and the effectiveness of the in 2009, and considers them to be cost effective audit process: and not to compromise the independence of the vi develop and implement policy on the Auditors.
The non-audit services include taxation engagement of the Auditors to supply matters, assistance in analysing and mitigating risk, non-audit services: and the review of the interim results.
The Chairman vii review Directors and Officers liability insurance: of the Audit Committee is advised of non-audit work viii review and monitor the Companys service required and a decision to authorise is taken on providers, and the fees charged in respect of a case-by-case basis.
Further information can be those services, including those of the Manager found in note 6 on the accounts.
and the Custodian: Following a recommendation from the Audit ix review the Managers dealing efficiency and Committee, the Board has concluded that there is associated costs: and no current need for the Company to have an internal x review trade marks and intellectual audit function: all of the Companys management property rights.
functions are delegated to the Manager, which has its own internal Audit, Risk and Compliance The Audit Committee has direct access to the department, and whose controls are monitored Auditors,  LLP, and to by the Board.
The Audit Committee has received the internal audit, risk and compliance director of and reviewed the Report referred to under Internal the Manager, and to the Managers group audit controls and management of risk below and an committee, and reports its findings to the Board.
The annual compliance report from the Managers head of Board retains ultimate responsibility for all aspects Audit, Risk and Compliance.
relating to the annual and interim accounts and other The Audit Committee has reviewed, and is significant published financial information.
satisfied with, the whistleblowing policy that has All of the Audit Committees responsibilities have been put in place by the Manager under which been carried out at its meetings held over the course its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about of 2009 and in February 2010.
A meeting has been possible improprieties in financial reporting or other held with the Auditors to review the work carried matters.
The necessary arrangements are in place for out for the audit of the annual financial statements.
proportionate and independent investigation of such The Auditors also attend each of the scheduled matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The appointment of the auditors has not been put out to tender, but on the Internal controls and management of risk basis of their attendance at the scheduled meetings, The Board has overall responsibility for the the Audit Committee has been able to assess the Companys systems of internal controls, for effectiveness of the external audit.
In completing this reviewing their effectiveness and ensuring that risk review, the Audit Committee has taken into account management and control processes are embedded the standing, experience and tenure of the audit in the day-to-day operations of the Company.
partner and his team, the nature and level of services These controls aim to ensure that the assets of provided, and confirmation that they have complied the Company are safeguarded, proper accounting with the relevant UK independence standards.
The records are maintained, and the financial information Auditors are required to rotate the audit partner every used within the business and for publication five years and this is the first year that the current is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering partner has been in place.
The Manager and the financial, operational, reputational, compliance and Report and Accounts 2009 35
