Directors Report and Business Review continued in the Companys objective and policy section and benchmark index and peer group.
The Company maintains multimoney to invest in markets has a negative impact currency credit facilities with Royal Bank of Scotland on asset values, if those markets subsequently and ING Bank totalling 100m 2008: 200m, which fall.
The inability to renew borrowing facilities may will be subject to review between July and October cause the Company to have to repay borrowings 2010.
The Company also has a multi-currency via asset sales at a disadvantageous time and overdraft facility of 50m with JPMorganChase.
Exposure of the investments and cash to Further reference is made on page 7 and in note 14 foreign currencies will impact performance when on the accounts.
those currencies weaken against Sterling.
In the management and mitigation of these Principal risks and their management risks, the Board maintains an asset allocation The Companys assets consist mainly of listed and gearing policy.
Investments are primarily equities and its principal risks are therefore in a diversified spread of international publicly market related.
Note 26 on the accounts sets out listed equities with exposure to their underlying the Companys financial risk management policy.
At each meeting the Board reviews The Corporate Governance Statement on page investment policy and investment performance 32 includes a summary of the risk management with the Fund Manager and monitors levels arrangements.
By means of the procedures set of investment in illiquid securities, as well out in the summary, and in accordance with the as the appropriateness of the levels of cash Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the and borrowings.
The ability of the Company Combined Code published by the Working Party for to gear up via long-term and short-term the Institute for Chartered Accountants in England borrowings, in currencies matching those and Wales, the Board has established an ongoing to which the portfolio is exposed, enables process for identifying, evaluating and managing it to take a long-term view of the countries, the significant risks faced by the Company, and has markets and currencies in which it is invested, regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the internal without having to be concerned about shortcontrol systems for the period.
This process has term volatility.
It is the Boards policy to have been in place throughout the year under review, and one or more borrowing facilities in place at to the date hereof, and will continue to be regularly all times, to ensure the Company has the reviewed by the Board on an ongoing basis.
ability to provide liquidity at short notice and The specific key risks faced by the Company, at commercial rates, whether to pay back any together with our mitigation approach, are as follows: loans that are maturing or to take advantage i Objective and strategy inappropriate of perceived investment market weaknesses.
objective and strategy in relation to investor Gearing levels are currently set in the range of demands in a rapidly changing financial services 0% to 20% of net assets and the Board preand savings market.
approves all borrowing facility agreements.
The The Board regularly reviews the Companys investment policy allows the Company to use position as a leading savings vehicle.
derivatives for the purpose of hedging foreign Certain strategic issues, including its currencies, but to date it has not done so.
role as a global growth investment trust, iii Private equity the majority of the underlying acquisition opportunities and the rationale private equity investments are in unlisted for not introducing a continuation vote, are companies, some of which will be in the early considered annually by the Board.
stages of their development, may be lossii Investment policy, liquidity, gearing and making, highly geared and with no certainty currency inappropriate asset allocation, sector of survival.
Unlisted investments may prove and stock selection, and use of gearing leading difficult or impossible to realise.
The concept to underperformance relative to the Companys of fair value of unlisted companies is an 18 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC imprecise science, and the ultimate realisation counterparty risk monitoring and oversight of such investments may be at a valuation throughout the Financial Services industry.
significantly different from the valuation used in The Board has reviewed the process by the accounts.
In addition, the timing of any such which the Manager approves counterparties realisation is uncertain.
with which it will carry out transactions on Private equity risks are mitigated by investing behalf of the Company.
This includes the level in a spread of direct, secondary, venture of due diligence and monitoring applied on capital, buyout and mezzanine fund of funds each new and existing counterparty, the limits and by the wide spread of underlying private set and sufficient diversification by number of equity firms, which in turn have diversified counterparties with which the Manager will investment portfolios and vintage years.
All transactions must be settled on iv Safe custody of assets the failure of the the basis of delivery against payment, unless Custodian to continue to provide a safe and local market conditions dictate otherwise.
secure custodian service or to continue operating Further information can be found on page 52. could put in jeopardy the assets and ultimately vii Discount volatility investment trust shares the ongoing business of the Company.
tend to trade at discounts to their underlying net The Board regularly reviews the service asset values, which can fluctuate considerably.
The service levels The Company has a discount control are reviewed by the Manager, which receives mechanism with the objective of maintaining a annually a SAS70 report on the Custodian, by less volatile discount with a ceiling, in normal an independent auditing firm.
The Custodian market conditions, of 10% with debt at is monitored alongside other counterparties market value.
in accordance with the process operated by viii Operational and regulatory breach of section the Manager and reviewed by the Board.
The 842 could lead to the Company being subject to contractual provisions with the Custodian capital gains tax on the sale of its investments, include the ring-fencing of the Companys whilst serious breach of other regulations may assets in its own client accounts.
lead to its shares being suspended by the Stock v Service providers the Manager is the main Exchange or to a qualified audit report.
Other service provider and a failure to continue control failures, either by the Manager or any of operating for any period of time could put in the service providers, may result in operational jeopardy the ongoing business of the Company.
problems, incorrect disclosures or loss of assets The Board meets regularly with the through fraud, as well as breaches of regulations.
management of the Manager and its Internal All investment movements and forecasts of Audit function, and has access to publicly income and expenditure are reported to the available information indicative of its financial Board as part of the process of monitoring position and performance.
compliance within the section 842 criteria.
The Board is putting in place contingency The Managers and other service providers arrangements to facilitate the ongoing control policies and procedures are reviewed operation of the business in the event of any annually.
ix Reputational damage any significant failing vi Counterparties the Company is exposed to could damage the reputation of the Company, potential failures by counterparties to deliver leading to further adverse consequences.
securities for which it has paid, or to pay for The actions and controls relating to each of the securities which it has delivered.
principal risks highlighted above serve to mitigate The unprecedented market conditions the risk of reputational damage.
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008 placed greater focus on Report and Accounts 2009 19
