Operating and Financial Review We have a continuing programme of work to future will continue to incentivise staff and of assets in tax wrappers and a cash option further improve the performance and help align their interests with those of other on our platform have reduced the impact of resilience of our systems and infrastructure.
Many employees also receive the current market turbulence on our Implementation of a number of an annual bonus related to the overall performance.
However, when investor improvements to increase efficiency, improve profitability of the Group.
confidence is low there is an increased risk security and reduce risk have taken place that the value of assets being withdrawn during the year.
However, certain changes In addition to remunerating staff well, we from our platform will rise, although we have been delayed until the 2010 financial aim to retain and attract staff through the have not experienced this during the year.
year to coincide with the re-location of the provision of training, career progression, business planned for January 2010.
The regood communication and a vibrant culture.
Market volatility and a consequent drop in location affords many opportunities, The continued growth and success of the the performance of our in-house managed particularly in terms of re-structuring our organisation continues to create funds remain as risks in the current economic network and enhancing our business opportunities for staff.
The exceptional interest rate continuity arrangements.
moving all our staff from our current environment during the year, in particular the locations into a single building will improve divergence of LIBOR and base rate during Regulation communication even further and ensure that the first half of the financial year, has we maintain the dynamic culture that has benefited the Group.
However, the In their reports, the Chairman and Chief been crucial to the Groups success.
continued low interest rates create the risk of Executive highlighted changes to the a decline in earnings due to a decline in regulatory landscape, in particular the FSAs Risks and Uncertainties interest turn.
We are confident that our current business model is well There are a number of potential risks to the The difficulties seen in the banking sector led positioned for these changes and do not Group which could hinder the successful us to explicitly include the risk of bank default expect any significant increase to our implementation of our strategy and have a within the Group risk register, alongside the regulatory capital requirements, against material impact on our long term more general risk of reliance on third parties.
which we already maintain a healthy surplus.
These arise from internal or Client money is currently spread across a external events, acts or omissions which number of banks which have strong credit Staff could potentially pose a threat to the future ratings and participate in the UK Government success and survival of the Group.
Our treasury Our employees are vital to the Groups Board and senior management of policy is regularly reviewed by management.
continuing success and we continue to focus Hargreaves Lansdown are proactive in on motivating and retaining our talented staff.
identifying, assessing and managing risk.
Our IT platform and infrastructure have performed well throughout the year and we More staff became shareholders during the The risk profile of the business has not have continued to invest and implement year through a maturing SAYE scheme.
changed significantly this year, but a few of changes with a strong focus on mitigating the During October 2008 we also granted new the risks included in the 2008 Annual risks we face in this crucial area.
Our Employee Report have materialised, such as market Benefit Trust EBT is well funded and holds volatility.
We have not been immune from The risk factors mentioned below do not sufficient shares to satisfy all outstanding the current economic climate and market purport to be exhaustive as there may be options.
Further shares were purchased by downturn.
A significant part of Group additional risks that the Group has not yet the EBT during the year to be used for the revenue is based on the value of client identified or has deemed to be immaterial future incentivisation of staff.
The Board investments, and those have declined in that could have a material adverse effect on believes that the use of share schemes in the value during the year.
The high percentage the business.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 14 Operating and Financial Review Industry Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Focus on recurring revenue streams over the more volatile transaction-based alternative.
Fluctuations in capital markets may adversely affect FluctuationsHigh proportion of assets under administration in tax trading activity and or the value of the Groups assets in the capital wrappers so clients less likely to withdraw funds and under administration or management, from which we markets lose tax benefits.
Cash option enables clients to shelter from market volatility.
Strong market position with pricing power.
Full control over scalable and flexible platform.
Changing The Group operates in a highly  management team with a strong track markets and environment with developing demographic trends record of innovation and responsiveness to the market.
increased and our continued profitability depends on our  structure and culture promotes competition to respond to these pressures and trends.
Client focused with a loyal customer base.
Younger clients attracted by SIPP offering.
The Groups technology could become obsolete if weTrack record of successful development.
Evolving are unable to develop and enhance our systems toHigh awareness and sponsorship of the importance of technology accommodate changing preferences, new products technology at Board level.
and the emergence of new industry standards.
Substantial development team in place.
The Group may be materially adversely affected as a Business model and culture geared towards FSA Regulatory result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by principle of treating clients fairly.
risk changes in the interpretation or enforcement of Financial strength of the organisation provides comfort existing laws and regulations.
should the capital resource requirement be increased.
Changes made to tax legislation could reduce theThe government is more likely to encourage savings in Changes in attractiveness of some of the Groups investment order to plan for an ageing population, which is taxation law products such as ISAs and SIPPs.
Clients educated to improve awareness of potential There is a risk of reputational damage through the Damage to boiler room and other online scams.
actions of unassociated third parties such as the set-up the GroupsHargreaves Lansdown security procedures are well of a copycat website to fraudulently obtain funds from reputation communicated to clients so they are more likely to our clients.
question anything out of the ordinary.
Operational Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Errors, breakdowns or Serious or prolonged breaches, errors or breakdowns High level of resilience built into daily operations.
security in the Groups software or information technology IT performance, scalability and security are deemed top breaches in systems could negatively impact customer confidence.
respect of the It could also materially breach contracts we have with Large, experienced in-house team of IT professionals Groups our customers and data protection laws, which could and established name suppliers.
software or render us liable to disciplinary action by governmental Internal procedures marked against industry best information and regulatory authorities, as well as to claims by our practice.
systems In addition to the failure of IT systems, there is a riskCritical applications and infrastructure mirrored across Business of disruption to the business as a result of power primary and secondary sites.
continuity failure, fire, flood, acts of terrorism, re-locationBusiness Continuity Plan produced in line with best problems and the like.
There is a risk of reputational damage including as aHigh level of internal controls including checks on new Damage to result of employee misconduct, failure to manage staff.
the Groups inside information or conflicts of interest, fraud orWell trained staff.
15 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 Operating and Financial Review Risk Type Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Succession planning encouraged throughout Group via management and staff objectives.
Success of the Group should attract high calibre Key The loss of, or inability to recruit, key personnel could candidates.
personnel have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, SAYE schemes in operation to incentivise staff and risk results of operations or financial condition.
Two year lock up on shares held by several directors and senior management.
The Groups business entails the risk of liability related to litigation from clients or third parties and Litigation or actions taken by regulatory agencies.
There can be no High levels of PI cover.
claims made assurance that a claim or claims will be covered by Comprehensive internal review procedures for against the insurance or, if covered, will not exceed the limits of marketing literature.
Group available insurance coverage, or that any insurer will remain solvent and will meet its obligations to provide the Group with coverage.
Any regulatory breach or service failure on the part ofDue diligence forms part of the selection process for Reliance on an outsourced service provider could expose the key suppliers.
third parties Group to the risk of regulatory sanctions andOngoing review by our internal audit team of key reputational damage.
Very experienced management team, with a highly There is a risk that management will pursue successful track record to date.
Strategic risk inappropriate strategies or implement the GroupsManagement have demonstrated an excellent strategy ineffectively.
understanding of the market and continue to monitor this effectively through regular dialogue with clients.
Only manage Funds of Funds, divested equity management to focus on core strength.
If the investment performance of the HargreavesFund analysis focuses on stock selection skills of Lansdown multi-manager funds were to be poor manager rather than basic performance analysis.
Performance relative to the market or in absolute terms, the GroupMulti-manager funds well diversified at the underlying of in-house would be vulnerable to redemption cancellation of fund level as well as by number of funds.
managed units by investors in those collective investment fundsWell established and proven investment process.
funds and a consequential reduction in revenues receivedOur Funds of Funds give investors exposure to a broad from such activities.
They are therefore less vulnerable to sector specific poor performance than specialised or focused funds.
Financial Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Highly cash generative business.
The risk that the Group is unable to meet liabilities as Group maintains a substantial surplus above regulatory Liquidity risk they become due because of an inability to liquidate and working capital requirements.
assets or obtain adequate funding.
Treasury management policy provides for the availability of liquid funds at short notice.
Only use banks with strong credit rating where we do Given the current economic climate and in particular not believe the government would allow them to fail.
Bank default the unprecedented problems faced by banks, there is aDeposits spread across multiple banks.
risk that a bank could fail.
Regular review and challenge of treasury policy by management.
Good relationships with banks used.
Risk of decline in earnings due to a decline in interest Interest rateAccess to competitive interest rates due to large value of turn.
Low interest rates make it harder to attract risks cash deposits placed.
Regular fixed high interest cash offers available to clients.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 16
