scenarios, including projected global economic from off-balance sheet products such as counterparty downturns more severe than that which is currently risk guarantees and credit derivatives, and from the being experienced.
Qualitative and quantitative Groups holdings of debt securities.
Among the risks techniques are used to estimate the potential impact in which the Group engages, credit risk generates the on HSBCs capital position of such scenarios.
HSBC largest regulatory capital requirement.
also participates, where appropriate, in standard The objectives of credit risk management, scenario analyses requested by regulatory bodies.
underpinning sustainably profitable business, are In particular, this framework has aided principally to maintain a strong culture of management in mitigating some of the effects of the responsible lending and a robust risk policy and global financial crisis.
While the prediction of future control framework: to both partner and challenge the events cannot cover all eventualities, nor precisely business line in defining and implementing risk identify future events, a number of the scenarios appetite, with its continuous re-evaluation under analysed in the past provided additional management actual and scenario conditions: and to ensure insight into the actions necessary to mitigate the independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their risks when similar events occurred.
In addition to the suite of risk scenarios The credit risk governance structures and considered for the HSBC Group, each major control frameworks implemented by the Group are subsidiary conducts regular macro-economic and designed for all stages of economic and financial event-driven scenario analyses specific to that region cycles.
During 2009, a number of processes, for under the Group governance framework.
Executive example, crisis management and new product managers from across HSBC meet regularly to review, were enhanced in response to recent best consider and debate the outcome of these scenarios practice recommendations of industry and and formulate recommended management actions.
Central credit risk oversight and Macro-economic analyses are considered regularly independent review activities have been reinforced by GMB.
within a common operating model for the responsibilities and interaction of GMO Risk, Risk control culture regionally integrated risk functions and countrybased management.
HSBCs risk management policies are encapsulated in the Group Standards Manual and cascaded in a Credit Risk is part of the Global Risk function, hierarchy of policy manuals throughout the Group to and the heads of its retail, wholesale and market risk communicate standards, instructions and guidance to disciplines within GMO, as well as regional Chief employees.
They support the formulation of risk Risk Officers and certain country Chief Credit appetite and establish procedures for monitoring and Officers and the Head of Risk Strategy, report to the controlling risks, with timely and reliable reporting to GCRO.
HSBC regularly reviews and updates its Across the Group, Credit Risk fulfils the role of risk management policies, systems and methodologies an independent credit control unit, while engaging to reflect changes in law, regulation, markets, in dialogue with business teams to set priorities, products and emerging best practice.
refine risk appetite, and monitor and report higherIt is the responsibility of all Group officers to risk exposures.
Credit risk and risk capital identify, assess and manage risk within the scope management policies and methodologies, including of their assigned responsibilities.
Personal analytical model developments and management accountability, reinforced by the Groups governance information, are enhanced in the light of experience structure and instilled by training and experience, gained, for instance through the roll-out of the helps to foster throughout the Group a disciplined and Groups advanced internal ratings-based IRB constructive culture of risk management and control.
See also Capital Management on page 285. Credit risk The Credit Risk function within GMO provides high-level oversight and management of credit risk Credit risk management Audited for HSBC worldwide.
Its responsibilities include: Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer formulating Group credit policy.
Compliance, or counterparty fails to meet a payment obligation subject to approved dispensations, is mandatory under a contract.
It arises principally from direct for all HSBCs operating companies, which lending, trade finance and leasing business, but also must develop and record in local instruction 201 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Management manuals their detailed credit policies and maturity and type of business.
Country limits procedures, consistent with Group policy: are determined by taking into account economic and political factors, and applying local business guiding HSBCs operating companies on the knowledge.
Transactions with countries deemed Groups appetite for credit risk exposure to to be higher risk are considered on a case by specified market sectors, activities and banking case basis: products.
GMO Risk controls exposures to certain higher-risk sectors and closely monitors maintaining and developing HSBCs risk rating exposure to others, including real estate, the framework and systems, to classify exposures automotive sector, certain non-bank financial meaningfully and enable focused management institutions, structured products and leveraged of the risks involved.
The GCRO chairs the finance transactions.
When necessary, Credit Risk Analytics Oversight Committee, restrictions are imposed on new business or which reports to the RMM and oversees risk exposures, which may be capped at Group rating model governance for both wholesale and and or entity level: retail business.
Rating methodologies, based upon a wide range of analytics and market dataundertaking independent review and objective based tools, are core inputs to the assessment of assessment of risk.
GMO Risk assesses all customer risk.
For larger facilities, while full use commercial non-bank credit facilities and is made of automated risk-rating processes, the exposures including those embedded in ultimate responsibility for setting risk ratings derivatives that are originated or renewed by rests with the final approving executive: HSBCs operating companies over designated limits, prior to the facilities being committed to assisting the Risk Strategy unit in the customers or transactions being undertaken.
development of stress-testing scenarios, Operating companies may not confirm credit economic capital measurement and the approval without this concurrence: refinement of key risk indicators and their reporting, embedded within the Groups monitoring the performance and management of business planning processes: portfolios across the Group.
GMO Risk tracks emerging trends and conducts in-depth portfolio reporting on aspects of the HSBC credit risk reviews, overseeing the effective management portfolio to the RMM, the Group Audit of any adverse characteristics: Committee and the Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings by way of a variety of regular and ad controlling centrally exposures to sovereign hoc reports covering: entities, banks and other financial institutions.
HSBCs credit and settlement risk limits to risk concentrations: counterparties in these sectors are approved and retail portfolio performance at Group entity, managed by GMO Risk to optimise the use of regional and overall Group levels: credit availability and avoid excessive risk concentration: specific higher-risk portfolio segments: controlling exposure for all debt securities held: a risk map of the status of key risk topics, where a security is not held solely for the with associated preventive and mitigating purpose of trading, a formal issuer risk limit is actions: established: individual large impaired accounts, and establishing and maintaining HSBCs policy on impairment allowances charges for all large credit exposures, ensuring that customer segments: concentrations of exposure by counterparty, country limits, cross-border exposures and sector or geography do not become excessive in related impairment allowances: relation to the Groups capital base and remain within internal and regulatory limits.
GMO Risk portfolio and analytical model performance also monitors HSBCs intra-Group exposures to data: and ensure they are maintained within regulatory stress-testing results and recommendations: limits and ensures that policy and practice are fully aligned to evolving regulatory managing and directing credit risk management requirements: systems initiatives.
A centralised database covers substantially all the Groups direct controlling cross-border exposures, through the lending exposures, to deliver an increasingly imposition of country limits with sub-limits by 202 granular level of management reporting.
A managed using a wide range of risk and pricing uniform credit application process for banks is models to generate portfolio data.
operational throughout the Group and a similar HSBCs historical risk rating system based on a corporate credit application system covers judgemental assessment of the likelihood and impact almost all Group corporate business by value: of delinquency was superseded in 2008 for financial providing advice and guidance to HSBCs reporting purposes and, for all significant risk operating companies, to promote best practice management decisions employing credit risk ratings, throughout the Group on credit-related matters by a more risk-sensitive and granular methodology.
such as sustainability risk, new products and This facilitates the IRB approach under Basel II training: and adopted by the Group to support calculation of its minimum credit regulatory capital requirement.
acting on behalf of HSBC Holdings as the For further details, see Credit quality of financial primary interface, for credit-related issues, with instruments on page 225. external parties including the Bank of England, the FSA, local regulators, rating agencies, Special attention is paid to problem exposures, corporate analysts, trade associations and which are subject to more frequent and intensive counterparts in the worlds major banks and review and reporting, in order to accelerate remedial non-bank financial institutions.
Where appropriate, HSBCs local operating companies maintain or establish specialist units to Each HSBC operating company is required to provide customers with support in order to help them implement credit policies, procedures and lending avoid default wherever possible.
guidelines that meet local requirements while conforming to Group standards.
Credit approval Periodic risk-based audits of operating authorities are delegated by the Board of Directors of companies credit processes and portfolios are HSBC Holdings to the most senior Chief Executive undertaken by HSBCs Internal Audit function.
Officers, who receive commensurate delegations Audits include consideration of the adequacy and from their own boards.
In each major subsidiary, a clarity of credit policy procedure manuals: an Chief Risk Officer or Chief Credit Officer reports to overview of homogeneous portfolios of similar the local Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating assets to assess the quality of the loan book and other Officer on credit-related issues, while maintaining a exposures: consideration of any oversight or review direct functional reporting line to the GCRO.
work performed by credit risk management functions and the adequacy of impairment calculations: a Credit quality review of analytical model governance and Audited implementation: a review of management objectives and a check that Group and local standards and Each operating company is responsible for the policies are adhered to in the approval and quality and performance of its credit portfolios and management of credit facilities.
for monitoring and controlling all credit risks in them, including those subject to central approval by Individually significant accounts are reviewed Group Risk.
This includes managing its own risk on a sample basis to ensure that risk ratings are concentrations by market sector, geography and appropriate, that credit and collection procedures product.
Local systems are in place throughout the have been properly followed and that where Group to enable operating companies to control and deterioration is evident, impairment allowances are monitor exposures by customer and retail product raised in accordance with the Groups established segments.
A Credit Review and Risk Identification procedures.
Internal Audit discusses with team reports directly to each regional Chief Risk management any risk ratings it considers to be Officer, and reviews the robustness and effectiveness inappropriate: after discussion, its final of key risk measurement, monitoring and control recommendations for revised ratings must then activities.
HSBCs credit risk rating systems and processes Impairment assessment differentiate exposures in order to highlight those Audited with greater risk factors and higher potential severity of loss.
In the case of individually significant When impairment losses occur, HSBC reduces the accounts, risk ratings are reviewed regularly and any carrying amount of loans and advances through the amendments are implemented promptly.
Within the use of an allowance account.
When impairment of Groups retail businesses, risk is assessed and available-for-sale financial assets and held-tomaturity financial investments occurs, the carrying 203
