HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk Regulation and supervision Page Regulation and supervision 1 Unaudited Regulation and supervision....................... 196 1 Risk management...................................... 199 With listings of its ordinary shares in London, Credit risk................................................... 201 Hong Kong, New York, Paris and Bermuda, HSBC 2 Credit risk management........................ 201 Holdings complies with the relevant requirements 3 for listing and trading on each of these exchanges.
In Credit exposure..................................... 206 1 the UK, these are the Listing Rules of the Financial Areas of special interest........................ 214 3 Services Authority FSA : in Hong Kong, The Credit quality of financial instruments.. 225 Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The 2 Impaired loans and advances................ 230 Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited HKSE : 3 Impairment allowances and charges...... 230 in the US, where the shares are traded in the form of 2 HSBC Holdings..................................... 241 ADSs, HSBC Holdings shares are registered with 1 Risk elements in the loan portfolio........ 244 the US Securities and Exchange Commission 2 Liquidity and funding................................ 244 SEC.
As a consequence of its US listing, HSBC 2 Holdings is also subject to the reporting and other Policies and procedures........................ 244 2 requirements of the US Securities Act of 1933, as Primary sources of funding................... 244 2 amended, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as The management of risk......................... 245 amended, and the New York Stock Exchanges 2 Contingent liquidity risk........................ 247 NYSE Listed Company Manual, in each case as 2 The impact of market turmoil................ 248 applied to foreign private issuers.
In France and 2 HSBC Holdings..................................... 249 Bermuda, HSBC Holdings is subject to the listing Market risk................................................. 250 rules of Euronext, Paris and the Bermuda Stock 2 Sensitivity analysis................................ 251 Exchange respectively, applicable to companies with 3 secondary listings.
Impact of market turmoil....................... 252 2 Trading portfolios.................................. 253 A statement of HSBCs compliance with the 2 Non-trading portfolios........................... 255 provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate 1 Sensitivity of net interest income........... 256 Governance issued by the Financial Reporting 1 Council and with the Code on Corporate Governance Structural foreign exchange exposures... 257 2 Practices in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Defined benefit pension schemes............ 258 3 Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of HSBC Holdings..................................... 258 Hong Kong Limited is set out in the Report of the 1 Residual value risk.................................... 261 Directors: Governance on page 294.
These authorities impose a 1 Sustainability risk...................................... 264 variety of requirements and controls designed to 2 Risk management of insurance operations 265 improve financial stability and the transparency of 2 Life insurance business.......................... 265 financial markets and their contribution to economic 2 growth.
These regulations and controls cover, inter Non-life insurance business................... 266 2 alia, capital adequacy, depositor protection, market Insurance risk........................................ 266 2 liquidity, governance standards, customer protection Financial risks....................................... 272 for example, fair lending practices, product design, Present value of in-force long-term and marketing and documentation standards, and 2 insurance business............................. 283 social responsibility obligations for example, antiCapital management and allocation............ 285 money laundering and anti-terrorist financing 2 Capital management.............................. 285 measures.
In addition, a number of countries in 3 Capital measurement and allocation..... 286 which HSBC operates impose rules that affect, or Risk-weighted assets by principal place limitations on, foreign or foreign-owned or 1 subsidiary........................................... 291 controlled banks and financial institutions.
The rules include restrictions on the opening of local offices, 1 Unaudited.
branches or subsidiaries and the types of banking 2 Audited.
and non-banking activities that may be conducted by 3 Audited where indicated.
those local offices, branches or subsidiaries: 196 restrictions on the acquisition of local banks or to 291.
The FSAs approach to capital requirements regulations requiring a specified percentage of local for UK insurers is to require minimum capital to be ownership: and restrictions on investment and other calculated on two bases.
First, firms must calculate financial flows entering or leaving the country.
The their liabilities on a prudent basis and add a statutory supervisory and regulatory regimes of the countries solvency margin pillar 1.
Secondly, firms must where HSBC operates will determine to some degree calculate their liabilities on a realistic basis then add HSBCs ability to expand into new markets, the to this their own calculation of risk-based capital.
services and products that HSBC will be able to The sum of realistic reserves and risk-based capital offer in those markets and how HSBC structures pillar 2 is agreed with the FSA.
As a result of government required to maintain capital equal to the higher of interventions in response to recent global economic pillars 1 and 2.
The FSA has the right to object, on conditions, it is widely anticipated that there will be prudential grounds, to persons who hold, or intend to a substantial increase in government regulation and hold, 10 per cent or more of the voting power of a supervision of the financial services industry, financial institution.
including the imposition of higher capital The regulatory framework of the UK financial requirements, heightened disclosure standards and services system has traditionally been based on restrictions on certain types of transaction structures.
co-operation between the FSA and authorised The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated institutions.
The FSA monitors authorised basis.
In addition, each operating bank, finance institutions through ongoing supervision and the company or insurance operation within HSBC is review of routine and ad hoc reports relating to regulated by local supervisors.
The primary financial and prudential matters.
The FSA may regulatory authorities are those in the UK, Hong periodically obtain independent reports, usually from Kong and the US, the Groups principal areas of the auditors of the authorised institution, as to the operation.
adequacy of internal control procedures and systems as well as procedures and systems governing records UK regulation and supervision and accounting.
The FSA meets regularly with HSBCs senior executives to discuss HSBCs UK banking and financial services institutions are adherence to the FSAs prudential guidelines.
They subject to multiple regulations.
The primary UK also regularly discuss fundamental matters relating statute is the Financial Services and Markets Act to HSBCs business in the UK and internationally, 2000 FSMA.
Additionally, data privacy is including areas such as strategic and operating plans, regulated by the Data Protection Act 1998.
Other UK risk control, loan portfolio composition and financial services legislation is derived from EU organisational changes, including succession directives relating to banking, securities, insurance, planning.
In light of current conditions, HSBC has investments and sales of personal financial services.
experienced an increased level of ongoing In addition to its role as HSBCs lead regulator, interaction with the FSA.
the FSA is responsible for authorising and supervising all HSBCs businesses in the UK which Hong Kong regulation and supervision require authorisation under FSMA.
These include Banking in Hong Kong is subject to the provisions deposit-taking, retail banking, life and general of the Banking Ordinance and to the powers, insurance, pensions, investments, mortgages, functions and duties ascribed by the Banking custody and share dealing businesses, and treasury Ordinance to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and capital markets activity.
HSBC Bank is HSBCs the HKMA.
The principal function of the HKMA principal authorised institution in the UK.
is to promote the general stability and effective FSA rules establish the minimum criteria for working of the banking system in Hong Kong.
The authorisation for banks and financial services HKMA is responsible for supervising compliance businesses in the UK.
They also set out reporting with the provisions of the Banking Ordinance.
The and, as applicable, consent requirements with Banking Ordinance gives power to the Chief regard to large individual exposures and large Executive of Hong Kong to give directions to the exposures to related borrowers.
In its capacity as HKMA and the Financial Secretary with respect to supervisor of HSBC on a consolidated basis, the the exercise of their respective functions under the FSA receives information on the capital adequacy of, Banking Ordinance.
and sets requirements for, HSBC as a whole.
Further The HKMA has responsibility for authorising details on capital measurement are included in banks, and has discretion to attach conditions to its Capital management and allocation on pages 285 authorisation.
The HKMA requires that banks or 197 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Regulation and supervision Risk management Introduction Risk governance their holding companies file regular prudential HBUS : HSBC Trust Company Delaware, N. A. returns, and holds regular discussions with the Wilmington, Delaware HTCD : and Wells Fargo management of the banks to review their operations.
HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. San Francisco, California The HKMA may also conduct on-site examinations WFTB.
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. of banks and, in the case of banks incorporated in HNAH, formed to hold HSBCs US and Hong Kong, of any local and overseas branches and Canadian operations is also a bank holding subsidiaries.
The HKMA requires all authorised company.
Both HSBC and HNAH are registered as institutions to have adequate systems of internal financial holding companies FHCs under the control and requires the institutions external BHCA, and, accordingly, may affiliate with auditors, upon request, to report on those systems securities firms and insurance companies and engage and other matters such as the accuracy of in other activities that are financial in nature or information provided to the HKMA.
In addition, the incidental or complementary to activities that are HKMA may from time to time conduct tripartite financial in nature.
The ability of HSBC and HNAH discussions with banks and their external auditors.
to engage in expanded financial activities as FHCs depends upon HSBC and HNAH continuing to meet The HKMA has the power to serve a notice of certain criteria set forth in the BHCA, including objection on persons if they are no longer deemed to requirements that their US depository institution be fit and proper to be controllers of the bank, if they subsidiaries be well capitalised and well may otherwise threaten the interests of depositors or managed, and that such institutions have achieved at potential depositors, or if they have contravened any least a satisfactory record in meeting community conditions specified by the HKMA.
The HKMA may credit needs during their most recent examinations revoke authorisation in the event of an institutions pursuant to the Community Reinvestment Act.
non-compliance with the provisions of the Banking Ordinance.
These provisions require, among other In general, under the BHCA, an FHC would be things, the furnishing of accurate reports.
required, upon notice by the Federal Reserve Board, to enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve The HKMA implemented Basel II with effect Board to correct any failure to comply with the from 1 January 2007 for all Authorised Institutions requirements to maintain FHC status.
Until such incorporated in Hong Kong.
deficiencies are corrected, the Federal Reserve The marketing of, dealing in and provision of Board may impose limitations on the US activities of advice and asset management services in relation to an FHC and depository institutions under its control.
securities in Hong Kong are subject to the provisions If such deficiencies are not corrected, the Federal of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Reserve Board may require an FHC to divest its Kong Securities and Futures Ordinance.
Entities control of any subsidiary depository institution or to engaging in activities regulated by the Securities and desist from certain financial activities in the US.
Futures Ordinance are required to be licensed.
The The three US banks, HBUS, HTCD, and WFTB HKMA is the primary regulator for banks involved are subject to regulation and examination primarily in the securities business, while the Securities and by the OCC, secondarily by the FDIC, and by the Futures Commission is the regulator for non-banking Federal Reserve Board.
regulations restrict many aspects of their operations and administration, including the establishment and US regulation and supervision maintenance of branch offices, capital and reserve HSBC is subject to extensive federal and state requirements, deposits and borrowings, investment supervision and regulation in the US.
Banking laws and lending activities, payment of dividends and and regulations of the Board of Governors of the numerous other matters.
Federal Reserve System the Federal Reserve In December 2007, US regulators published a Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the final rule regarding Risk-Based Capital Standards: Currency the OCC and the Federal Deposit Advanced Capital Adequacy Framework Basel II.
Insurance Corporation the FDIC govern many This final rule represents the US adoption of aspects of HSBCs US business.
The final rule became effective on 1 April HSBC and its US operations are subject to 2008, and requires large bank holding companies, supervision, regulation and examination by the including HNAH, to adopt its provisions no later Federal Reserve Board because HSBC is a bank than 1 April 2011.
HNAH has established holding company under the US Bank Holding comprehensive Basel II implementation project Company Act of 1956 BHCA, as a result of its teams comprised of risk management specialists control of HSBC Bank USA, N. A. Mclean, Virginia representing all risk disciplines.
