US$111 billion of HSBC Finances liabilities were drawn from professional markets, utilising a range The main operating subsidiary that does not of products, maturities and currencies.
As the loan accept deposits is HSBC Finance, which is funded portfolios within HSBC Finance are in run off it has principally by taking term funding in the not accessed the term debt markets for more than professional markets and securitising assets.
balance sheet as the table incorporates, on an Cash flows payable in respect of customer undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to accounts are primarily contractually repayable on principal and future coupon payments except for demand or at short notice.
However, in practice, shorttrading liabilities and trading derivatives.
In term deposit balances remain stable as inflows and addition, loan and other credit-related commitments outflows broadly match and a significant portion of and financial guarantees and similar contracts are loan commitments expire without being drawn upon.
generally not recognised on the balance sheet.
Trading liabilities and trading derivatives have been The management of liquidity risk included in the On demand time bucket, and not by Audited contractual maturity, because trading liabilities are The Group uses three principal measures to manage typically held for short periods of time.
The liquidity risk, as described below.
undiscounted cash flows payable under hedging derivative liabilities are classified according to their contractual maturity.
The undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under financial guarantees and 245 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Liquidity and funding Liquidity risk management Contingent liquidity risk Advances to deposits ratio interbank or collateralised lending markets.
The distinction between core and non-core deposits HSBC emphasises the importance of core current generally means that the Groups measure of accounts and savings accounts as a source of funds advances to deposits is more restrictive than that to finance lending to customers, and discourages which could be inferred from the published financial reliance on short-term professional funding.
For example, HSBCs consolidated achieved by placing limits on Group banking entities advances to deposits measure at 31 December 2009 which restrict their ability to increase loans and based only on published balance sheet information advances to customers without corresponding was 77.3 per cent 2008: 83.6 per cent.
growth in current accounts and savings accounts.
This measure is referred to as the advances to Ratio of net liquid assets to customer deposits ratio.
liabilities Advances to deposits ratio limits are set by the Net liquid assets are the aggregated liquid assets RMM and monitored by Group Finance.
The ratio less all funds maturing in the next 30 days from describes loans and advances to customers as a wholesale market sources and from customers who percentage of the total of core customer current and are deemed to be professional.
For this purpose, savings accounts and term funding with a remaining HSBC defines liquid assets as cash balances, shortterm to maturity in excess of one year.
Loans and term interbank deposits and highly-rated debt advances to customers which are part of reverse securities available for immediate sale and for which repurchase arrangements, and where HSBC receives a deep and liquid market exists.
Contingent liquidity securities which are deemed to be liquid, are risk associated with committed loan facilities is not excluded from the advances to deposits ratio.
The reflected in the ratios.
The Groups framework for classification of a deposit as core includes monitoring this risk is described in Contingent consideration of the size of the customers total liquidity risk below.
deposit balances, the pricing and the deposits behavioural characteristics.
Limits for the ratio of net liquid assets to customer liabilities are set for each bank operating The three principal banking entities listed in the entity, but not for HSBC Finance.
As HSBC Finance table below represented 70 per cent of HSBCs total does not accept customer deposits, it is not core deposits at 31 December 2009 2008: 70 per appropriate to manage its liquidity using standard cent.
The table shows that loans and advances to liquidity ratios.
customers in HSBCs principal banking entities are overwhelmingly financed by reliable and stable Ratios of net liquid assets to customer liabilities sources of funding.
HSBC would meet any are provided in the following table, along with the unexpected net cash outflows by selling securities US dollar equivalents of net liquid assets.
