holding MBSs or other ABSs in the trading Accounting policies portfolio hedged through credit derivative Audited protection, typically purchased from monolines, HSBCs accounting policies regarding the with the intention of earning the spread classification and valuation of financial instruments differential over the life of the instruments: and are in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 originating leveraged finance loans for the Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 39 purposes of syndicating or selling them down in Financial Instruments: Recognition and order to generate a trading profit and holding Measurement, as described in Note 2 on the them in order to earn interest margin over their Financial Statements, and the use of assumptions and lives.
estimation in respect of valuation of financial instruments as described on page 63.
These activities are not a significant part of Global Banking and Markets business, and Global Nature and extent of HSBCs Banking and Markets is not reliant on them for any exposures material aspect of its business operations or Audited profitability.
This section contains information on HSBCs The purchase and securitisation of US mortgage exposures to the following: loans and the secondary trading of US MBSs, which was conducted in HSBCs US MBSs business, was direct lending held at fair value through profit or discontinued in 2007. loss: ABSs including MBSs and CDOs: Special purpose entities monolines: HSBC enters into certain transactions with customers in the ordinary course of business which credit derivative product companies CDPCs : involve the establishment of SPEs to facilitate and customer transactions.
SPEs are used in HSBCs leveraged finance transactions.
business in order to provide structured investment opportunities for customers, facilitate the raising MBSs are securities that represent interests in a of funding for customers business activities, or group of mortgages.
Investors in these securities diversify HSBCs sources of funding and or have the right to cash received from future mortgage improve capital efficiency.
payments interest and or principal.
Where an MBS references mortgages with different risk profiles, the The use of SPEs in this way is not a significant MBS is classified according to the highest risk class.
part of HSBCs activities and HSBC is not reliant on Consequently, an MBS with both sub-prime and the use of SPEs for any material part of its business Alt-A exposures is classified as sub-prime.
Detailed disclosures of HSBCs sponsored SPEs are provided on page 181.
CDOs are securities in which ABSs and or other related assets have been purchased and securitised Risk management by a third-party, or securities which pay a return Audited which is referenced to those assets.
CDOs may include exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets The effect of the recent market turmoil on HSBCs where these are part of the underlying assets or risk exposures, the way in which HSBC has reference assets.
As there is often uncertainty managed risk exposures in this context, and any surrounding the precise nature of the underlying changes made in HSBCs risk management polices collateral supporting CDOs, all CDOs supported by and procedures in response to the market conditions residential mortgage-related assets, irrespective of are set out in the following sections: the level of sub-prime assets referenced or contained Credit Risk Credit exposure see page 206 : therein, are classified as sub-prime.
Liquidity risk The impact of market turmoil HSBCs holdings of ABSs and CDOs, and its on the Groups liquidity risk position see direct lending positions, include the following page 248 : and categories of collateral and lending activity: Market risk The impact of market turmoil on market risk see page 252.
