Risks and Risk Management The Company has put in place a risk management framework The Investment Adviser and the Operator have established covering all aspects of the Companys business.
Due to the internal controls to manage these risks, and also review and nature of the Company being an Investment Company and the consider the Groups key risks on a regular basis.
The Board outsourcing of key services to the Investment Adviser and other reviews the key risks affecting the Company at each regular service providers, reliance is placed on these service providers board meeting, by reference to a risk analysis matrix prepared by own systems and controls.
If a new risk arises or the likelihood of a risk occurring increases, where appropriate, a mitigation strategy The identification, assessment and management of risk are an is developed and implemented, together with enhanced integral element of the Investment Advisers and the Operators monitoring by the Investment Adviser.
work in both management of the existing portfolio and in seeking new investment opportunities.
The Board also reviews the performance of the Investment Adviser as well as all key service providers on at least an annual The Directors set out the material risks relating to the Groups basis and this review includes a consideration of the Investment portfolio and investing in the Company as at April 2008 in the Advisers internal controls and their effectiveness.
The Companys C Share Prospectus, which is available from the Investment Adviser, being part of HSBC Holdings plc, is also Companys website.
subject to periodic internal audits which review adherence against documented procedures and controls adopted by the Investment Adviser in relation to its management of the Group, the Groups investments and advice given to the Company.
Risk Assessment Risk groups Risk type External Economic factors Legal new laws and legislation Tax and accounting changes in practice and policies Political changes in policy Regulatory changes in policies and requirements Strategic Financial objectives impacting on achieving targets Share price discount premium to NAV Management Groups reliance on service providers underperformance, solvency and breach of regulations Investment Bidding overpaying for assets Acquisition due diligence fails to unearth risks which impact performance Equity risks associated with PFI PPP projects Performance under-performance by service providers Concentration over-reliance on a client or service contractor Financial & Treasury Finance and liquidity lack of financial resources Counterparties reliance on financial institutions Currency exchange rate exposure Interest rates both on debt funding and deposit accounts External risks rates by seeking to match their indexation of contractual The Group currently has a broad exposure to the PFI PPP revenues to their indexation of contractual costs.
This is not markets in the UK and also the EU currently the Netherlands.
always achievable where costs are not indexed, an example The Group has investments, business activities, registered being where bank debt interest rate exposure has been swapped companies and limited partnerships in the UK, Luxembourg and into a fixed rate.
In this situation, a period of low inflation or Guernsey.
These activities and entities can be affected by deflation could cause the project to have insufficient free changes in economic factors, local legislation, taxation and cashflows to cover the servicing of the debt causing the project regulatory frameworks.
to lock-up and even default under the loan documentation.
The performance of the portfolio of 28 investments is affected by Most PFI PPP concessions provide some or total protection, a number of economic factors including inflation rates, interest through their contractual structures, in relation to changes in rates, and foreign exchange rates.
Most, if not all of the PFI PPP legislation which affect either the project asset or the way the projects mitigate to some extent against changes in inflation services are provided.
28 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 Changes in tax legislation and accounting practices can affect The Investment Adviser meets existing and potential new both the individual investments and can have an impact on the shareholders throughout the year to explain the Company, its Groups corporate subsidiaries and corporate structure.
Where investments, its performance, and the key risks.
The Board possible, this will be mitigated, but there will be instances where believes this ongoing meeting and briefing helps educate the this may not be possible and in these cases there could be an market and informs both existing and new potential shareholders.
adverse impact on the financial performance of the Group.
Management risks The UK government and other governments now using the The Group is heavily reliant on the Investment Adviser for the PFI PPP P3 procurement model may in future decide to use day-to-day management of the Group and to achieve the Groups alternative funding mechanisms and or it may reduce the overall objectives.
This Investment Adviser is supported by other service level of funding allocated to major capital projects.
Whilst such providers to the Group.
Failure by the Investment Adviser or a risks cannot be mitigated, the PFI market is anticipated to grow service provider could have a material impact on the Group.
as it is considered that: Equally a loss of key personnel from a service provider may have an impact on the performance of the Group.
The projects provide value for money and have a strong record of timely and within budget completion: and The Board reviews the performance of each service provider on an The public sector makes cost savings and gets cost certainty.
annual basis and seeks to ensure that each service provider has adequate systems and controls in place in relation to the services The Group is not reliant on any pipeline deals to service existing they provide to the Group.
Any performance issues are monitored debt.
There is a risk that an existing project might be voluntarily carefully, and if the Board is not satisfied with the level of service terminated but this risk is considered low due, in part, to the delivery, the Board will seek to change service providers.
requirement for the public sector body to compensate in full the senior funders and other project break costs.
In relation to the Investment Adviser, the Board takes comfort from the fact that the Investment Adviser is part of the HSBC Under Guernsey legislation, The Company is an authorised Group and is therefore subject to the HSBC Groups policies, Closed-Ended Investment Scheme and is supervised by the procedures, compliance systems, and risk controls.
The Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
The Investment Investment Adviser is subject to internal audit by the HSBC Adviser is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Group and the Board is satisfied that there is sufficient depth of Authority in the UK, in accordance with the Financial Services and expertise within the Investment Advisers infrastructure team Markets Act 2000.
Both the Company and its advisers continually that the Group is not reliant on any single individual.
monitor any potential or actual changes to any regulations to ensure both the Group and its service providers are compliant.
Investment risks Acquiring a new investment in an infrastructure project via a trade Strategic risks sale involves a certain level of risk.
These are mitigated where The Companys strategy is to deliver a progressive distribution possible by a structured process of thorough due diligence, the growth with the aim of achieving 7.0p per share by March 2013. agreement of suitable protections where possible in the sale and At the same time, the aim is to maintain or grow the net asset purchase agreements with the vendor, and site visits to view and value NAV of the Company.
Since the current portfolio consists inspect the projects assets.
However due diligence may fail to of investments in concessions with finite lives, if no new identify risks and the business plan assumptions in the acquisition acquisitions are made, there will come a point in the Companys model may not subsequently be achieved.
evolution when it will become necessary to start repaying capital.
This is shown diagrammatically in the chart on page 17.
The Investment Adviser and Operator have internal processes and controls, developed from its experience of managing funds and The ability both to deliver growth in distributions to shareholders investing in infrastructure, to minimise these risks through regular and to maintain and grow its NAV is dependent on a number of peer group review and internal approval processes.
All investment economic factors outside the Companys or the Investment decisions are made by an Investment Committee which has Advisers control.
Whilst reasonable assumptions have been approved terms of reference to ensure only those with appropriate factored into business plans, significant external factors could skill sets have been appointed, any conflicts should they arise are materially affect the Company and impede its ability to deliver its suitably managed, and an appropriate minimum quorum is financial objectives.
Examples of such events include a prolonged achieved.
Specialist advisers such as lawyers, technical period of deflation, a rise in corporation tax rates, and changes in consultants, and tax advisers are retained to carry out specific due tax legislation affecting the Group and its investments.
diligence on potential acquisitions to minimise this risk.
The Company publishes a NAV per share twice a year.
The Investments are normally acquired through competition and so it method of valuing the Groups investments is described in detail is important to analyse the investment and determine the in the Investment Advisers Report.
To assist in managing the appropriate value the Group is prepared to pay.
The risk of share price premium or discount to NAV, the Board has the over-paying is less than for infrastructure assets requiring powers to both buy back shares as well as issue additional revenue forecasts, since the majority of the revenue and cost shares under the Block Listing.
There is no guarantee that these streams in PFI PPP projects and similar asset types are measures will keep the discount or premium to NAV small.
contractual and therefore fixed in real terms.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 29 Risks and Risk Management continued Whilst most construction and operational risks in a PFI PPP Financial and Treasury project are laid off to sub-contractors through a well-established The Groups investments and the Group itself require debt contractual framework, there are a few areas in which costs finance to achieve its business objectives.
Debt financing is and or risks are retained within the SPV.
These include a number currently scarcer than 12 months ago.
All of the Groups PFI PPP of routine running cost items and are also likely to include: investments have long term funding in place and do not need refinancing to meet their financial plans.
The Group has a 5 year Insurance premiums.
If insurance premiums are not subject to committed 200m revolving debt facility which expires in pass down to a service provider, any increases are for the December 2012.
There is a risk that it will not be possible to account of the project.
To provide some protection against renew this facility on acceptable terms, and if this proves to be substantial increases the majority of the projects have negotiated the case, the Group will need to either have raised further equity premium risk sharing agreements with the public sector authority or will need to dispose of selected investments to enable it to where, when an agreed cap is met, the increased premium is meet its repayment obligations.
mostly or wholly taken by the authority.
The Group and its PFI PPP investments have a number of Life cycle also called Asset Renewal or Major Maintenance.
financial counterparties providing a range of facilities including Lifecycle is the budget to replace parts of the projects assets debt funding, hedges, monoline insurance wrapping, bank which are outside the routine maintenance contract.
Examples in deposit facilities, and insurance.
Failure of a financial party could a building will include floor finishes e. g. carpets, doors, have a material effect on the Group depending on the nature of windows, ceilings and mechanical and electrical equipment.
In the service being provided.
The greatest risk is with the deposit some cases this risk and the budget for replacement are passed banks where the Group and its investments have cash on short down to the maintenance contractor, and in the remaining and medium term deposits.
The Investment Adviser is projects, it sits with the project company.
There is a risk that the monitoring this exposure across the portfolio to make sure no budget is inadequate or expenditure needs to be carried out over-reliance on any single institution and that all counterparties earlier than forecast.
For the current portfolio, the Group has have reasonable credit ratings.
assessed the risk and considers that the lifecycle provisions are reasonable and adequate.
The Group has limited foreign currency exposure at present, with just one investment in Euros.
This is likely to change in the future Once acquired, Investments need to perform in line with their as further non-UK investments are acquired.
To date the Group business plans.
Under performance can be caused by a number has balance-sheet hedged the value of its overseas investment of factors, the most likely of which is the under performance of and will, if deemed appropriate, hedge prospective income on a a service delivery partner.
The Investment Adviser plays an short term basis.
active role in the management of the Groups investments to ensure any trends in performance are picked up and, if The Group is exposed to interest rate fluctuations, both on its necessary, corrected accordingly.
In a severe case, the project borrowing and cash deposits.
The PFI PPP projects have hedges can terminate a sub-contractor who fails to perform and either in place on the majority of their borrowings to minimise interest self manage the services or tender for a new service provider.
Similarly the Groups corporate borrowings are partially The cost of this action would, where possible, be recovered hedged.
It is possible to some extent to mitigate rate from the previous supplier.
fluctuations on the cash deposits by selecting the deposit period.
However in the current low interest rate economy, the A key risk within a PFI project is the various counterparty PFI PPP projects are not earning as much from their cash exposures: the client, the sub-contractors, and the providers of deposits as they were 12 months ago.
This has impacted the finance and financial services.
The Group is careful to manage its current valuation of the portfolio, since it is an inherent risk concentration exposures to any one party carefully.
Whilst the where options to mitigate are limited.
Group is currently predominantly UK PFI PPP investments, there are plans to diversify this risk by acquiring non-UK investments.
Sub-contractor and financial counter-parties exposures are monitored and where the Group seeks a balanced portfolio with no over-reliance on a single party.
