KEY GROUP RISK FACTORS This section identifies the main risk factors at present and other risks, currently regarded that may affect the British American Tobacco as immaterial, could turn out to be material Groups business.
The following table provides in the future.
a brief description of the key risks to which the The risk factors listed in this section and the Groups operations are exposed and identifies, specific activities in place to manage them in each case, their potential impact on the should be considered in the context of the Group and the principal activities in place to Groups internal control framework, which manage the risk.
Each risk is considered in the is addressed in detail in the statement on context of the Group strategy by identifying internal control in the Corporate governance the principal strategic element to which it statement.
This section should also be read relates, although other elements may also in the context of the cautionary statement be relevant.
The Group strategy is discussed regarding forward-looking statements at the in detail in the preceding pages of this end of this section.
Risk registers are used at Group, regional, area It is not the intention to provide an extensive and individual market levels.
The Group risk analysis of all risks affecting the Group.
Not register is reviewed by the Audit Committee all of the factors listed are within the control at six-monthly intervals and provides the of the Group and other factors besides those basis for the assessment of the key Group listed may affect the performance of its risk factors identified below.
Some risks may be unknown ILLICIT TRADE Illicit trade in the form of counterfeit products, smuggled genuine products and locally manufactured products on which applicable taxes are evaded, represents a significant and growing threat to the legitimate tobacco industry.
Increasing excise rates can encourage more consumers to switch to illegal cheaper tobacco products and provide greater rewards for smugglers.
The risk is exacerbated by the current economic downturn.
Competition from illicit trade Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk sudden and disproportionate excise erosion of brand equity: dedicated Anti-Illicit Trade AIT teams increases and widening excise differentials investment in trade marketing operating at global, regional, area and between markets: and distribution is undermined: key market levels: ineffective regulatory environment: product is commoditised: active engagement with key stakeholders: lack of law enforcement and weak border lower volumes and reduced profits.
global AIT strategy development supported controls.
by a research programme to further the understanding of the size and scope of the problem: AIT Intelligence Unit including a dedicated analytical laboratory cooperates with law enforcement agencies in pursuit of priority targets and capacity building: strong internal business conduct and customer approval policies.
32 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 EXCISE AND TAX Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise and sales taxes in most countries in which the Group operates.
In many of these countries, taxes are generally increasing but the rate of increase varies between countries and between different types of tobacco products.
Excise shocks from tax rate increases or structure changes Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk government initiatives to raise revenues: consumers reject the Groups legitimate requirement for Group companies to have increases advocated within context of tax-paid products for products from in place formal pricing and excise strategies national health policies.
illicit sources: and contingency plans to manage lower sales volume or alteration of sales mix.
significant excise changes: annual review of brand portfolio, brand health and equity.
FINANCIAL The Groups underlying operations give rise to certain financial risks.
The principal risks in this regard, and the controls in place to address them, are identified below and further details about the Groups financial management and treasury operations can be found within the Financial review.
Liquidity risks, including capital structure and leverage Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity capital effectiveness Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk downturn in macroeconomic climate and or increased funding costs and requirement established and conservative financing failures in financial systems global or in to raise or issue equity or seek new sources principles, which target a minimum level individual markets: of capital: of liquidity, a minimum average maturity limited liquidity, access to cash and sources inability to fund strategic opportunities for the total debt portfolio and a maximum of finance: or respond to threats: allowable proportion of total debt maturing fluctuations in interest rates due to underperforming share price and erosion in any one year, with regular reporting movements in international capital markets.
of shareholder value: against those principles: damage to corporate reputation.
targeted investment grade rating: retained cash flow spread across a wide banking group: maintenance of a substantial committed bank facility which may be drawn at short notice and liquidity pooling structures to access operating company cash balances.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 33 KEY GROUP RISK FACTORS CONTINUED FINANCIAL CONTINUED Management of cost base Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity cost management Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk macroeconomic conditions lead to high higher product costs and or increased salary multiple sources of key commodities inflation of key commodities leaf, wood costs, with impact on profit and cash flow: and development of new sources in pulp, energy and or wage inflation: inability to manage cost savings leads low-cost countries: productivity programmes and above market to lower profits and reduced funds for harmonisation of product specifications projects do not achieve objectives due to investment in long-term growth: and production efficiencies to reduce lack of alignment and or insufficient resources: ineffective structural changes restrict future variable costs: incomplete, inefficient or misaligned growth potential, increase short-term wage inflation is monitored globally via organisational changes.
cost base and result in short-term loss established compensation committee of business focus: structures: in areas of high inflation, salary reduced shareholder confidence.
increases are staggered to mitigate impact: programme in place to achieve costs savings of 800 million by 2012: regular tracking of actual productivity savings and forecast improvements in operating margin and supply chain, overheads and indirect projects and above market projects: periodic reviews of long-term savings: for 2009, costs have been one of the performance measures for payments under the International Executive Incentive Scheme.
Foreign exchange rate exposures Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity capital effectiveness Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk translational foreign exchange FX rate fluctuations in translational FX rates of while translational FX exposure is not exposures for earnings cash flows from the key currencies against sterling introduce hedged, its impact is identified in results Groups global business, from exchange rate volatility in reported results: presentations and financial disclosures, and movements against sterling, the Groups fluctuations in transactional FX rates earnings are restated at constant rates for reporting currency: introduce volatility in costs of operations, comparability: transactional FX rate exposures generated with a potential adverse impact on financial debt and interest are matched to assets from underlying operations across the performance.
and cash flows to mitigate volatility where Groups global business due to receipts possible: and payments in non-domestic currencies.
transactional FX exposures from the Groups underlying operations are monitored and hedged under defined policies, procedures and limits: illiquid currencies, where hedging is not possible or uneconomic, are regularly reviewed.
34 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 FINANCIAL CONTINUED Counterparty risks Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity capital effectiveness Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk failure of counterparties with whom the significant financial loss reflected in adverse risk is spread through a wide banking Group has dealings.
impact on Group assets, financial risk profile group focused on strong counterparties and liquidity: across the globe: exposure to each financial disruption to operations due to failure of counterparty is monitored and risk is limited a transactional banking counterparty.
according to the counterpartys credit rating: financing principles and treasury policy compliance monitoring reflect global counterparty risk strategy.
Wrongly valued acquisition opportunities Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth mergers and acquisitions Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk lack of market intelligence: loss of opportunity: specialist and properly resourced mergers overvaluation of assets or understatement loss of volume, market share and profit: and acquisitions department: of liabilities.
contacts at all major investment banks to monitor opportunities: transactions must meet defined financial investment criteria: oversight by senior management or Board where appropriate.
Retirement benefits Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity capital effectiveness Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk the Group operates a number of defined increased deficits force higher contributions established limits on the proportion of assets benefit pension schemes: and profit and loss charges: that can be held in riskier investment classes: these create risk through their exposure increased net liabilities impact on the regular actuarial valuations and agreed to the volatility in financial markets and Groups credit worthiness and put pressure funding plans: shifting actuarial assumptions.
defined benefit schemes are now closed to new entrants.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 35 KEY GROUP RISK FACTORS CONTINUED MARKETPLACE The Group has substantial operations in over 180 countries.
Its results are influenced by the economic, regulatory and political situations in the countries and regions in which it has operations, as well as by the actions of competitors.
Inability to obtain adequate supplies of leaf Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk natural disasters, including major impact increased blend costs through lack of supply: global sourcing and globally integrated of climate change: potential deterioration in smoke quality management of leaf supply chain: competition for land use from other impacting consumer: on average, two-thirds of tobacco agricultural products: loss of market share in one or more markets.
requirements met from within Group: government initiatives to move farmers three year planning cycle to identify away from tobacco.
and manage potential shortages: scenario planning and contingency plans.
Economic crisis impact on secondary supply chain Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk collapse of economic environment in key one-time loss of revenue led by reduction established route-to-market strategy, geographic area: in inventories within the secondary involving direct distribution to retail where trading partners in secondary supply chain supply chain: appropriate, and effective relationships with fail or suffer lack of capital.
significant increase in bad debts and or distributors wholesalers: write-offs: monitoring of retail stocks, significant supply disruptions causing distributors wholesalers inventories and material consumer out-of-stocks.
reordering patterns, to identify potentially adverse trends: strict adherence to established trading terms and conditions.
Trading environment Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk downturn in macroeconomic climate price increases to cover cost rises are regular regional and management reviews reduces consumers disposable incomes not achieved: of budgeted pricing scenarios: and may lead to consumer down-trading: profit growth in short term falls below close monitoring of sales to detect changes competitors seek volume growth by shareholders expectations: in consumer purchasing patterns: price discounts.
reduction in funds for investment in development of strong brands and long-term growth.
brand portfolios: price war simulations.
36 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 MARKETPLACE CONTINUED Trading performance in key markets Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk inability to predict consumers changing reduction in market share and volume: established innovations process and strategy: behaviours through lack of market insights: profit growth in the short term fails to standard methodology to address consumer insufficient internal resources committed to meet shareholders expectations: surveys and brand value segmentation: develop, launch and maintain innovative reduction in funds for investment in regular reviews of key markets, levels of products: long-term growth: investment, brand focus, industry outlook inability to capture growth opportunities diminished shareholder confidence and competitor activity.
in individual markets and or synergistic in the Groups growth prospects: benefits from strong brand portfolio.
erosion of consumer base: weakened brand portfolio.
REGULATION The Groups businesses operate under increasingly stringent regulatory regimes around the world.
Further regulation is expected, particularly as a result of the World Health Organisations Framework Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC and, increasingly, active tobacco control activities outside the FCTC.
Regulation risks covering: packaging and labelling: advertising and promotion: design, contents and emissions of products: testing and measuring: public place smoking: and industry participation Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk adoption of differing regulatory regimes cost complexity of meeting regulations: Group companies have regulatory strategies in different countries groups of countries generic or plain packaging leads to loss in place in order to identify issues material and or lack of consensus on of brand equity and commoditisation: to their operating environment and develop interpretation application: reduced ability to communicate brand plans to address them in a manner adoption of more stringent regulations portfolio and innovations, contributing consistent with local law and Group policy: on communications, such as point of sale to an increase in illicit trade: engagement is sought with scientific and display bans and plain packaging: reduced consumer acceptability of new regulatory communities, and stakeholder exclusion of industry from participating product specifications, leading to loss engagement takes place at global, regional in engagement with regulators: of volume: and individual market levels: contribution to denormalisation of smoking.
restriction of industry participation leads to global monitoring of regulatory trends and inability to mitigate other regulatory risks.
developments and analysis of regulatory proposals to determine impacts, if any, on business: development of corporate positions and best practice examples for markets to address regulation.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 37 KEY GROUP RISK FACTORS CONTINUED LITIGATION The Group is involved in a number of legal and regulatory court proceedings in a number of countries, including the US.
These proceedings may be characterised as covering smoking and health issues and include claims for personal injury and claims for economic loss arising from the treatment of smoking and health-related diseases.
Regulatory proceedings may result in a challenge to new regulations.
A fuller analysis of current legal proceedings to which the Group is subject is set out in note 30 in the Notes on the accounts.
Loss of a smoking and health-related court case Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity capital effectiveness Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk continuing exposure to new litigation: unfavourable outcome or settlement a specialist centre of expertise, the Strategic outcomes of legal and regulatory court of pending or future litigation: Litigation Team SLT, has responsibility for proceedings in various jurisdictions.
material impact on consolidated results of directing and managing the litigation risk operations, cash flows and financial position globally: in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year.
Group companies are required to assess their litigation exposure and liaise with the SLT in connection with specific claims.
DATA RISKS The Group is increasingly reliant on information technology systems for its internal communications, controls, reporting and relations with customers and suppliers, as well as for the management of business information.
The loss or misuse of sensitive information, or its disclosure to outsiders, including competitors and trading partners, could potentially have a significant adverse impact on the Groups business operations and or give rise to legal liability.
Disruption to the Groups information technology systems Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity cost management Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk loss of wide area of communications: loss or delay in sales or cash collections information technology architecture based effects of a computer virus attack: and or inability to pay suppliers or staff: on established solutions from leading loss of operations in a major data centre: goods unable to be shipped: suppliers, with contingency plans in the Group data processed, stored or transported loss of telephony or email systems: event of counterparty failure: by IT systems Group or third party is loss or corruption of data: all critical financial and planning systems corrupted, lost or disclosed.
delays in meeting statutory or internal have secure backup systems and disaster reporting requirements: recovery plans: largest systems have full reputational loss or legal liability.
failover designs with dual-site hosting: comprehensive anti-virus protection in place Group-wide, with external testing to confirm protection: backup communication links in place for data centres and major sites: strict security standards and firewall protection for external links.
38 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 DATA RISKS CONTINUED Loss of confidential information or malicious manipulation of data Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity cost management Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk inadequate controls regarding the creation, loss of revenue and or profit due to use of information technology controls storage and sharing of confidential inaccurate data, loss of trade secrets and or see above : information: competitors gaining advantage: established information security and inadequate access controls to key systems increased costs in restoring lost data and or information technology policies and and data.
reversing inaccurate transactions: procedures: regulatory action, civil action and or criminal promotion of awareness and understanding prosecution for breach of legal obligations: of information security issues.
damage to corporate reputation and loss of shareholder confidence: negative impact on share price.
Cautionary statement The Business review and certain other sections of this document contain forward-looking statements which are subject to risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 39
