qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 27 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Our Sky Choices programme allows employees to make tax and National wholesale prices for the relevant channels which would be calculated as a Insurance savings in areas such as childcare payments and mobile phones.
It discount off retail prices.
The range of wholesale prices on which Ofcom is also supports the environment, by providing savings for a bicycle for travel to consulting is below the current wholesale rate card terms see The business, its work, travel season ticket loans and the costs of personal carbon offsetting.
The objectives and its strategy Cable distribution.
The wholesale must-offer Sky Benets Extra programme offers negotiated discounts on a variety of obligations would be implemented by changes to the Groups TLCS licences see products and services for our employees.
To enable our people to understand Government Regulation Broadcasting Act licences below.
and track the value of their whole package we launched online total reward statements this year.
In this consultation document, Ofcom also states that it believes that there may be a case for targeted interventions in relation to Subscription Video on Demand SVoD movie rights and in relation to the next PL auction.
With regard to SVoD Principal risks and uncertainties movie rights, Ofcom has stated that if it were to intervene, it is likely that it would This section describes the principal risks and uncertainties that could have a make a market investigation reference to the CC.
Ofcom is not, however, material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition, prospects, consulting formally on such a reference at this stage as it first wishes to explore liquidity or results of operations.
These should be read in conjunction with our with the relevant movie studios whether their existing commercial plans are long-term operating targets, which are set out in Financial review Financial likely to result in the more effective exploitation of SVoD rights, thereby avoiding and operating review Trends and other information.
Additional risks and the need for regulatory intervention.
Ofcom also has a concern in relation to uncertainties of which we are not aware or which we currently believe are collective selling of PL rights.
The PLs commitments to the European Commission immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, regarding the PLs joint selling of exclusive broadcast rights to football matches prospects, liquidity or results of operations.
see Government Regulation Investigation of Football Association Premier League Agreements below will not apply to the PLs next rights auction which is The Groups business is heavily regulated and changes in regulations, changes expected in 2012 for the seasons from and including the 2013 2014 season.
in interpretation of existing regulations or failure to obtain required regulatory Ofcom has stated its intention to review with the PL how it intends to ensure that approvals or licences could adversely affect the Groups ability to operate or this auction will comply with competition law and has stated that this might compete effectively.
involve exploring with the PL whether it is willing to provide new commitments.
The Group is subject to regulation primarily under UK and European Union Interested parties, including the Group, are invited to respond to the third legislation and it is currently and may be in the future subject to proceedings, consultation document by 18 September 2009.
Ofcom has stated that it will then and or investigation and enquiries from regulatory authorities.
The regimes consider responses to its consultation before making decisions on whether to which affect the Groups business include broadcasting, telecommunications, intervene under its sectoral powers and whether to issue a consultation on a competition antitrust, gambling and taxation laws and regulations.
Relevant reference to the CC in relation to SVoD rights.
authorities may introduce additional or new regulations applicable to the Groups business.
The Groups business and business prospects could be On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITV amounting adversely affected by the introduction of new laws, policies or regulations or to 17.9% of its issued share capital.
The Group paid 135 pence per share, changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, policies and totalling 946 million.
The investment in ITV has been subject to an in-depth regulations.
Changes in regulations relating to one or more of licensing review by the CC.
In December 2007 the CC completed its review and delivered requirements, access requirements, programming transmission and spectrum the final report of its findings to the Secretary of State SoS for Business, specications, consumer protection, taxation, or other aspects of the Groups Enterprise and Regulatory Reform now the Department for Business, Innovation business, or that of any of the Groups competitors, could have a material and Skills.
The CC concluded that the Groups acquisition of the ITV shares may adverse effect on the Groups business and or the results of its operations.
be expected to result in substantial lessening of competition arising from the loss of rivalry in an all-TV market between ITV and the Group.
The CC also The Group cannot be certain that it will succeed in obtaining all requisite concluded that the acquisition would not materially affect the sufciency of approvals and licences in the future for its operations without the imposition of plurality of persons with control of media enterprises serving relevant restrictions which may have an adverse consequence to the Group, or that audiences.
The CC recommended that the Group be required to divest part of its compliance issues will not be raised in respect of the Groups operations, stake such that it would hold less than 7.5% of ITVs issued share capital.
Taking including those conducted prior to the date of this ling.
into account the CCs findings, the SoS announced on 29 January 2008 his decision to make an adverse public interest nding.
The SoS also decided to On 26 June 2009, Ofcom published its third pay TV consultation document in impose on the Group the following remedies to address the substantial relation to its ongoing investigation into the UK pay TV industry, which was lessening of competition identied in the CCs report: 1 divestment of the opened in March 2007.
In this consultation document Ofcom confirms its view, on Groups shares in ITV down to a level below 7.5% within a specified period which it consulted in its previous consultation document, that the Group has which has not been publicly disclosed and 2 undertakings requiring the market power in narrow wholesale markets for premium sports and movie Group not to dispose of its ITV shares to an associated person, not to seek or channels and consults on its view that the Group has market power in narrow accept representation to the Board of ITV and not to reacquire shares in ITV.
retail markets for premium sports and movie channels.
Ofcom also confirms its view that the Group has, and is acting on, an incentive to limit distribution of The Group sought judicial review of the decisions of the SoS and CC before the those channels to other retailers on platforms other than DTH.
Ofcom confirms Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT.
VM also sought judicial review of the that it continues to believe that its concerns could be addressed by requiring the findings of the CC and SoS in relation to media plurality and the remedies Group to wholesale designated premium channels on regulated terms a imposed.
The Group was granted permission to intervene in the review wholesale must-offer obligation which it proposes to adopt under its sectoral proceedings of VM and VM was granted permission to intervene in the review powers and, in this third consultation, Ofcom outlines and consults on the proceedings brought by the Group.
specics of such an obligation.
The wholesale must-offer obligation as proposed would cover Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 and substantially all of Skys movie On 29 September 2008, the CAT published a single judgment with respect to channels including both HD and SD versions in each case and includes price and both the Groups and VMs appeals.
The CAT rejected the Groups appeal and non-price terms: in particular, Ofcom is consulting on a range of regulated upheld VMs challenge relating to media plurality.
In relation to remedies, the British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 27 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 28 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued Principal risks and uncertainties Channels and other channels on whose behalf the Group sells advertising.
The Group cannot be certain that its advertising revenue will not be impacted continued negatively by this behaviour or that advertising revenue for Sky Channels CAT found that the CC and SoS were entitled to nd that divestiture to below currently offered on other platforms will not be impacted negatively in the 7.5% would most appropriately remedy the competition concerns.
The Group future by the offering of video-on-demand services by other operators.
applied to the CAT for permission to appeal the CATs judgment to the Court of Appeal CoA.
The Group applied directly to the The Groups ability to compete successfully will depend on its ability to continue CoA for permission to appeal the CAT judgment and permission was granted on to acquire, commission and produce programme content that is attractive to its 17 March 2009.
VM also applied for permission to appeal the CAT judgment to customers.
The programme content and third party programme services the the CoA, contingent on the success of the Groups request for permission.
VMs Group has licensed from others are subject to xed term contracts which will request for permission to appeal was also granted by the CoA.
The Group and expire or may terminate early.
The Group cannot be certain that programme the VM appeals will be heard together at a hearing before the CoA, scheduled content or third party programme services whether on a renewal or otherwise for October 2009. will be available to it at all or on acceptable financial or other terms including in relation to technical matters such as encryption, territorial limitation and copy On 2 January 2009, the UK Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory protection.
Similarly, the Group cannot be certain that such programme content Reform BERR now the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills or programme services will be attractive to its customers, even if so available.
opened a public consultation on draft undertakings implementing the divestment remedy required by the SoS, the form of which the Group had The future demand and speed of take up of the Groups DTH service, and the previously agreed.
No further announcement has been made since the Groups broadband and telephony services will depend upon the Groups ability consultation closed.
to offer such services to its customers at competitive prices, pressures from competing services which include both paid-for and free-to-air offerings, and The Group is not yet able to assess whether, or the extent to which, these its ability to create demand for its products and to attract and retain customers matters will have a material effect on the Group.
through a wide range of marketing activities.
The future demand and speed of take up of the Groups services will also depend upon the Groups ability to The Group operates in a highly competitive environment that is subject to rapid package its content attractively.
In addition, the Group operates in a geographic change and it must continue to invest and adapt to remain competitive.
region which has experienced sustained economic growth for a number of years.
The effect of the current slowdown in the rate of economic growth and The Group faces competition from a broad range of companies engaged in the recent decline in consumer confidence on the Groups ability to continue to communications and entertainment services, including cable operators, DSL attract and retain customers is uncertain.
Therefore, the Group cannot be providers, other DTH providers, digital and analogue terrestrial television certain that the current or future marketing and other activities it undertakes providers, telecommunications providers, internet service providers, home will succeed in generating sufficient demand to achieve its operating targets.
entertainment products companies, betting and gaming companies, companies developing new technologies, and other suppliers of news, information, sports The Groups business is reliant on technology which is subject to the risk of and entertainment, as well as other providers of interactive services.
The Groups failure, change and development.
competitors increasingly include communication and entertainment providers that are offering services beyond those with which they have traditionally been The Group is dependent upon satellites which are subject to significant risks associated, either through engaging in new areas or by reason of the convergence that may prevent or impair their commercial operations, including defects, of the means of delivery of communication and entertainment services.
The destruction or damage, and incorrect orbital placement.
If the Group, or other Groups competitors include organisations which are publicly funded, in whole or broadcasters who broadcast channels on the Groups DTH platform, were in part, and which full a public service broadcasting mandate.
A change to such unable to obtain sufficient satellite transponder capacity in the future, or the mandate could lead to an increase in the strength of competition from these Groups contracts with satellite providers were terminated, this would have a organisations.
Although the Group has continued to develop its services through material adverse effect on the Groups business and results of operations.
technological innovation and by licensing, acquiring and producing a broad range Similarly, loss of the transmissions from satellites that are already operational, of content, the Group cannot predict with certainty the changes that may occur in or failure of the Groups transmission systems or up linking facilities, could have the future which may affect the competitiveness of its businesses.
In particular, a material adverse effect on its business and operations.
the means of delivering various of the Groups and or competing services may be subject to rapid technological change.
The Groups competitors positions may be The Group is dependent on complex technologies in other parts of its business, strengthened by an increase in the capacity of, or developments in, the means of including its customer relationship management systems, broadcast and delivery which they use to provide their services.
conditional access systems, advertising sales, email platform, supply chain management systems and its telecommunications network infrastructure, The Groups advertising revenue depends on certain external factors which including wide area network, LLU, CISCO core IP network, Marconi Alcatel include the overall value of advertising placed with broadcasters by third party optical network and complex application servers.
advertisers as well as the amount of such advertising that is placed with the Group and the channels on whose behalf the Group sells advertising space.
The In terms of the delivery of the Groups broadcast services, the Group is reliant Groups advertising revenue is also impacted by the audience viewing share of on a third party telecommunications infrastructure to distribute the content the Sky Channels and the other channels on whose behalf the Group sells between its head ofces at Isleworth and its primary and secondary uplink sites advertising and, accordingly, such revenue is affected by the distribution of such at Chilworth and Fair Oak.
These factors will not always be favourable to the Group and developments in those areas may therefore have a negative impact on the In addition, the Groups network and other operational systems are subject to Groups advertising revenue.
Advertising revenue may also be dependent on several risks that are outside the Groups control, such as the risk of damage to the viewing behaviour of the television audience.
For example, viewers of software and hardware resulting from re and ood, power loss, natural disasters, on-demand programming may choose not to view that programming on Sky and general transmission failures caused by a number of additional factors.
28 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 29 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Any failure of the Groups technologies, network or other operational systems or connectivity to end users.
Failure by either Openreach or BT Wholesale in fact to hardware or software that results in significant interruptions to the Groups provide its products to the Group on a fully equivalent basis could have a operations could have a material adverse effect on its business.
material adverse effect on the Groups business.
There is a large existing population of digital satellite reception equipment used to The Group is reliant on encryption and other technologies to restrict receive the Groups services, including set-top boxes and ancillary equipment, in unauthorised access to its services.
which the Group has made a significant investment and which is owned by its customers other than the smartcards, the hard disk capacity in excess of personal Direct DTH access to the Groups services is restricted through a combination of storage capacity and the software in the set-top boxes, to which the Group retains physical and logical access controls, including smartcards which the Group title.
Were a significant proportion of this equipment to suffer failure, or were the provides to its individual DTH customers.
Unauthorised viewing and use of equipment to be rendered either redundant or obsolete by other technology or content may be accomplished by counterfeiting the smartcards or otherwise other requirements or by the mandatory imposition of incompatible technology, or overcoming their security features.
A significant increase in the incidence of should the Group need to or wish to upgrade signicantly the existing population of signal piracy could require the replacement of smartcards sooner than set-top boxes and or ancillary equipment with replacement equipment, this could otherwise planned.
Although the Group works with its technology suppliers to have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
ensure that its encryption and other protection technology is as resilient to hacking as possible, there can be no assurance that it will not be compromised The deployed set-top boxes contain nite memory resources that are used by in the future.
The Group also relies upon the encryption or equivalent the operating system and other software components such as the conditional technologies employed by the cable and other platform operators for the access system, EPG, and interactive applications.
The Group estimates that protection of access to the services which the Group makes available to them.
around two million deployed set-top boxes have significant memory constraints Failure of encryption and other protection technology could impact the Groups and as such it has been necessary to close the EPG launch queue.
To date, the revenue from those operators and from its own customers.
Group has been able to carry out software downloads from time to time to recongure the memory utilisation in set-top boxes and to accommodate The Groups network and other operational systems rely on the operation and additional and increasingly complex services.
In the event that the efficiency of its computer systems.
Although the Groups systems are protected implementation of such software downloads is no longer a course of action by rewalls, there is a risk that its business could be disrupted by hackers or available to the Group, it may be limited in its ability to upgrade the services viruses gaining access to its systems.
Any such disruption, and any resulting available via the set-top boxes currently installed in customers premises.
liability to the Groups customers, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
Failure of key suppliers could affect the Groups ability to operate its business.
The Group undertakes significant capital expenditure projects, including The Group relies on a consistent and effective supply chain to meet its business technology and property projects.
plan commitments and to continue to maintain its network and protect its services.
A failure to meet the Groups requirements or delays in the development, The Group is currently involved in capital expenditure projects including manufacture or delivery of products from suppliers, the discontinuance of infrastructure projects.
As is common with such projects, there is a risk that the products or services, or a deterioration in support quality, could adversely affect Groups capital expenditure projects may not be completed as envisaged, either the Groups ability to deliver its products and services.
No assurance can be given within the proposed timescales or budgets, or that the anticipated business that a broad economic failure or decline in quality of equipment suppliers in the benets of the projects may not be fully achieved.
industry in which the Group operates will not occur.
Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
The Groups investment in ITV could be subject to future events outside of the Groups control which could result in a loss in value of the Groups investment.
Sky Talk relies on telecommunications services from network operator BT and failure on the part of BT to meet the Groups requirements for whatever reason On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITV may affect the Groups ability to deliver its telephony services to Sky Talk representing 17.9% of the issued share capital of ITV, at a price of 135 pence customers.
The Groups investment in ITV is carried at fair value.
The fair value of ITV is determined with reference to its equity share price at the balance sheet The Group uses a series of products from Openreach a BT group business date.
An impairment was first recorded following a review of the carrying value within its LLU operations.
These are the colocation space and associated of the investment in ITV at 31 December 2007, due to the significant and facilities to house the central ofce equipment co-mingling, backhaul circuits prolonged decline in the equity share price.
In accordance with IFRS, the Group to connect that equipment to the Groups network backhaul extension services has continued to review that carrying value throughout scal 2008 and scal and nally individual copper lines that go between the central ofce equipment 2009 and has recognised an impairment loss of 191 million in the current year and the end users house primarily shared metallic path facility lines.
The impairment loss for the year was determined with Group purchases these products from Openreach under terms and conditions reference to ITVs closing equity share price of 20.0 pence at 27 March 2009, the outlined in legally binding undertakings given by BT and accepted by Ofcom in last trading day of the Groups third scal quarter.
Following this impairment, lieu of a market investigation reference to the CC following Ofcoms Strategic the Group is required to recognise the effect of any further decline in the value Review of Telecommunications the BT Undertakings.
These stipulate that the of the equity share price of ITV in the income statement.
In line with IFRS, all Group buys these products on a fully equivalent basis when compared to other subsequent increases in the fair value of the ITV investment above this impaired operators including other parts of BT who supply broadband, telephony and value have been recorded in the available-for-sale reserve.
At 26 June 2009, the network products and services.
Ofcom has set up an Equality of Access Board last trading day of the Groups financial year, ITVs closing equity share price whose role is to monitor and ensure that all Equivalence of Input requirements was 33.8 pence.
If the Group were to dispose of all or part of its stake in ITV at a agreed in the BT Undertakings are being enacted.
Ofcom also monitors the price lower than the equity market price on the date of disposal and lower than implementation of the BT Undertakings.
Outside of the Groups LLU areas the a price consistent with the impairment through the income statement on the Group uses BT Wholesales IP stream bitstream product to provide broadband date of disposal, the Group would be required to recognise a loss on disposal.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 29 Annual Report 2009
