Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 22 The Global Investment Committee comprises our four Managing Principal risks and Directors, the Chief Investment Officer and two senior investment executives.
It is responsible for reviewing and approving all investment uncertainties proposals presented by investment executives in accordance with the Investment Policy set by the Board.
The approval of the Board is required for large investments.
The Global Investment Committee also reviews the quarterly performance reports on our portfolio Risk management is the responsibility of the ICG Board, which has companies and coordinates management plans for individual assets put in place the following key risk management structures: as necessary.
The Audit Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive The Global Operating Board comprises our four Managing Directors Directors.
Two Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Directors and some of the heads of our business lines.
It is responsible for are not members of the Audit Committee but are invited to attend.
management policy, and ensures ICGs implementation and compliance The Companys auditors are also invited to attend and have direct with company standards with regard to management, regulation, access to committee members.
The Committee is responsible for marketing and HR.
the selection, appointment, and review of the external auditors to the Board: reviewing accounts: the provisioning policy of the investment The Legal and Compliance Department is responsible for ensuring portfolio: and the effectiveness of the internal control environment of that business is conducted in accordance with relevant regulatory the Group.
The Executive Committee comprises the four Managing Our key risks, and the ways in which we mitigate them are outlined on Directors of ICG, each of whom has a specific area of responsibility.
In light of the severity and volatility of the economic The Executive Committee has general responsibility for ICGs downturn, we are particularly focused on managing credit, funding resources, determining strategy, financial and operational control and liquidity risks as outlined in the Business Review.
and managing the business worldwide.
Financial risks Credit risk Potential impact Mitigation Credit risk is the risk that unexpected losses may arise as a result ICG limits the extent of credit risk by diversifying its portfolio.
It uses of ICGs borrowers or market counterparties failing to meet disciplined credit procedures through the life of an investment to their obligations to pay.
Such risk is heightened during an protect its portfolio.
These have been intensified to reflect the current economic downturn.
We have established a dedicated team to support investment teams in managing weakened assets, and when required, restructure these assets.
Each investment receives an internal credit rating based on performance and risk to capital.
Lower rated assets are reviewed on a weekly basis by the relevant investment executive and regional head.
Credit risk is limited by the Companys focus on high quality, third party relationships.
All CFM counterparties are approved and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
Liquidity and funding risk Potential impact Mitigation Liquidity and funding risk is the risk that ICG will be unable to meet ICG funds assets with a combination of permanent capital and medium its financial obligations as they fall due because assets held cannot term committed debt facilities.
We are committed to maintaining be realised.
diverse sources of medium and long term finance.
ICG recognises that there may be times when the equity and Despite not facing any immediate liquidity issues, we are proactively or credit markets are closed and it would not be possible to raise engaging with our banks to extend the duration of some of our finance for what might be attractive investment opportunities.
We have agreed an extension of a 150m tranche of Such risk is heightened during a period of financial crisis.
an existing facility for an additional two years to April 2013.
Significant delays in the repayment of principal and realisation of We operate prudent gearing and hedging policies, and aim to rolled up interest and capital gains could have a negative impact on maintain headroom on our facilities based on future cash flow ICG's investment capacity, its ability to meet the financial covenants requirements and refinancing commitments.
of its debt facilities and to make repayments as and when these We closely monitor the headroom on our banking covenants and become due.
have made repayments and realisations a corporate priority.
However, as a minority investor, ICG is one of a number of parties who will have influence on the timing of a realisation.
We maintain a dialogue with our shareholders, banks and other potential capital providers.
Overview Business review Operational review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 23 Market risks Foreign exchange risk Potential impact Mitigation ICG is exposed to movements in exchange rates for the translation ICG mitigates foreign exchange risk by financing its loans and of net assets and liabilities, the most significant being the Euro and investments through borrowings or synthetic borrowings in the the US dollar.
Derivative instruments are used to reduce the Companys exposure to foreign currency movements on Currency movement also impacts the size of undrawn debt facilities.
In addition, derivative instruments are used to hedge a proportion of unrealised income recognised on a fair value basis.
Interest rate risk Potential impact Mitigation Interest rate risk is defined as the risk of loss through adverse The Company seeks to match the interest profiles of assets and movements in interest rates.
liabilities in order to reduce interest rate risk.
ICG uses financial derivatives to achieve this.
As a result, the Company does not have material financial exposure to interest rate movements.
Competition Potential impact Mitigation When the supply of credit is readily available, competition increases, ICG will be selective when making new investments and seek not only for mezzanine assets but also for all sub investment grade to maintain its credit discipline.
When credit is not readily available debt, at times leading to a deterioration of the risk reward ratio.
in the broader market, ICG aims to take advantage of new opportunities that emerge at a better risk reward ratio.
Business risks Loss of staff Potential impact Mitigation The loss of key employees could be detrimental to our growth.
We have in place a number of long term incentive schemes, aligned with our business strategy, which are designed to attract and retain high calibre executives.
We are committed to providing competitive remuneration packages for our staff.
Regulatory risk Potential impact Mitigation Our fund management business is the part of the business that ICG employs a full time legal and compliance director who reports is most exposed to regulatory risk.
Enforcement action by the to the Board, and whose role is to ensure that the business complies FSA could result in significant damage to the Companys reputation, with all relevant regulations in the countries in which we operate.
while withdrawal of FSA approvals could result in the loss of its fund management activity.
IT failure, business interruption, human errors Potential impact Mitigation The inability to conduct business normally could lead Internal policies set by the Board determine how operations should to losses and or damage our reputation.
We have a business continuity plan in place which ensures that our systems can be rebuilt in the event any of our premises suffer a disaster.
We employ high calibre employees who are trained to act in a professional manner and deal with third parties accordingly.
We follow FSA guidelines and aim to adopt best practise whenever possible.
Internal checks and audits are designed to mitigate these risks.
ICG considers the use of appropriate insurance to be a mitigant against a number of operational risks such as fraud and third party claims.
