Chief Executive Officers review Principal risks Strategic risk Mitigation Economic downturn We have a resilient business model.
The condition of the economies in which we operate and Our loan book is short-term, on average just under six in particular changes in general levels of unemployment months repayments are outstanding, which means we is likely to have a significant impact on business can quickly change the risk-return profile of our lending.
Our close customer relationships and flexible credit Customers may face increasing difficulty, such as scoring system allow us to detect rapidly, and respond reduced incomes or unemployment and may be less to, changes in customers circumstances at local able to repay loans and or less willing to borrow.
Reduced demand, reduced revenue and increased impairment may result.
Competition There are few providers of home credit in our markets.
Increased competition may reduce market share Our distinctive operating model engenders high levels leading to increased costs of customer acquisition and of customer satisfaction.
Market research is continually retention or reduced credit issued, lower revenue and undertaken to monitor satisfaction levels, identify usage lower profitability.
of other financial products and monitor competitor activity.
In addition, this risk has been reduced by diversification of customer acquisition channels, less competition and the reducing costs of media as a result of the economic downturn.
Business development A formal talent development programme aimed at Failure to develop effectively the business and achieve delivering sufficient high-quality managers to meet strategic aims because management resources, IT and future plans is in place.
A learning and development operational systems prove inadequate or insufficient.
We have a clear strategy for the development of our IT systems and operational processes.
Funding The business is well capitalised with equity to Insufficient liquid funds to meet the short-term or receivables of 49%.
At 31 December 2009 there strategic requirements of the business.
This is was headroom of 265.7 million on 598.3 million particularly relevant following the significant reduction of syndicated and bilateral banking facilities.
in the general availability of bank and capital markets On 16 March 2010 our committed facilities will reduce funding.
by 160.0 million to 430.0 million with 386.0 million At its extreme this could lead to a breach of banking of this committed to October 2011. covenants causing all outstanding facilities to fall We have committed funding sufficient for our business due for repayment or the going concern status of the plan until October 2011 and have clear plans to secure business being called into question.
22 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Directors report: Business review Strategic risk Mitigation Counterparty risk Cash is held generally with A3 rated financial institutions.
The risk that a key supplier or operational partner Institutions with lower credit ratings can only be used ceases to operate.
Banks: Funding lines or cash balances for withdrawal There are regular risk assessments of other key by agents to use in providing loans to customers are counterparties.
All of the banks who provide us with funding or other Other: Business failure of a counterparty, such as an IT services have continued to function.
services outsourcer, that causes significant disruption or impact on our ability to operate.
The foreign exchange rates used to translate the Currency risk majority of reported earnings within a financial Reported results and related assets and liabilities are reporting period are hedged.
at risk of adverse exchange rate fluctuations.
Earnings are adversely affected by currency movements.
No loans are issued in a currency other than the functional currency of the relevant market.
Funds are borrowed in, or swapped into, the same local currencies as net customer receivables so far as possible.
Tax risk A tax committee is in place to monitor tax risks across Adverse changes in, or conflicting interpretations of, the Group.
the different countries tax legislation and practice External professional advice for all material transactions may lead to an increase in the Groups taxation liabilities is taken and supported by strong internal tax experts and effective tax rate.
both in-country and in the UK.
Where possible, tax treatments are agreed in advance with relevant authorities.
Provision against adverse tax rulings is included in the balance sheet.
co. uk Directors report: Business review 23 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Chief Executive Officers review Principal risks continued Strategic risk Mitigation Financial services regulation and legislation It is important that regulators and governments Changes to the regulation of credit or the sale of credit understand our business and its positive role by intermediaries or other laws may impact the within the consumer credit market.
We foster open operation of the business and or result in higher costs.
relationships with regulatory bodies and closely monitor developments in all our markets, and in respect Breaches of regulation may result in fines or the of the EU as a whole.
We have well established and withdrawal of operating licences.
experienced corporate affairs teams in all our markets.
We work proactively with opinion formers to ensure the business is well understood.
This is facilitated by membership of the British Chamber of Commerce and or relevant local trade bodies along with Eurofinas in Brussels.
An international legal committee operates to oversee legal risks across the Group and take external legal advice to ensure we remain compliant.
Reputation risk We have an established corporate responsibility Our reputation is adversely affected by ill-informed programme in place.
We have voluntarily taken proactive comment or malpractice.
Damage to our brand and steps to align the business to the FSAs Treating customer satisfaction ratings reduces customer demand.
We have clear operating guidelines and policies to ensure consistency and compliance with our values.
An active communications programme aims to foster a better understanding of the Company.
24 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Directors report: Business review Strategic risk Mitigation Credit risk and responsible lending We have effective credit management systems in place The failure to respond appropriately to changes in for evaluating and controlling the risk from lending the credit risk profile of our target market and existing to new and existing customers these are managed at customer base.
This is supplemented by the weekly contact between our agents and customers allowing a regular Performance not optimised through failure to lend assessment of credit risk.
Our agents are incentivised to good quality customers.
primarily to collect not lend.
Increased impairment impacts profitability and employee Group and country level credit committees review and agent engagement leading to increased turnover.
credit controls at country and branch level each month allowing rapid response to the changing market.
Performance is monitored against benchmarks set for each product term and loan sequence.
Service disruption Robust business continuity process, procedures and Day-to-day operations disrupted in the event of reporting framework in place to enable us to continue damage to, or interruption or failure of, information trading in the event of such an occurrence.
These are and communication systems.
Strategies are revised where necessary.
Failure to provide quality service to customers and loss of data.
Continuous investment in, and development of, IT platforms.
Disruption of activities increases costs or reduces potential net revenues.
Health and safety A health and personal safety committee and policies The failure to provide an appropriate working are in place.
environment for our employees and agents.
Formal safety guidance provided to employees and Employees and agents have safety concerns that agents as part of their induction programme together impact engagement and productivity.
with ongoing safety awareness refreshers.
We continually seek to improve our processes to ensure high standards of safety.
