Risk and governance Risk management Operational risk management Operational risk description Operational risk is fide ned as the risk of loss or earnings volatility arising from failed or inadequate internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
We recognise operational risk as a signi cant risk category, and strive to manage this within acceptable levels through the promotion of sound operational risk management practices.
We have adopted the Standardised Approach to calculate operational risk regulatory capital.
Operational risk governance structure The governance structure for operational risk management is outlined below.
Board The board of directors through the BRCC and Audit Committee approve, monitor and review the operational risk framework, policies and practices of the group.
Reports are presented to these committees on a regular basis.
Group Operational Risk Management An independent specialist Group Operational Risk Management function is responsible for establishing the framework for operational risk management, and promotes consistent and sound operational risk management practices and processes across the group.
This is in line with regulatory and stakeholder expectations in managing our operational risk.
Group Operational Risk Management has a speci c responsibility for the monitoring and oversight of Business Continuity Risk Management and Financial Crime Risk Management: and monitors Change Control Management, Information Security Risk and Technology Risk, which is the responsibility of the subject matter experts.
The Operational Risk Committee and or working groups promote and monitor the effectiveness of the operational risk management framework and develop and implement practices supporting operational risk policies and practices.
Group Operational Risk Management is responsible for facilitating the interaction and relationship with the various supervisors of the group.
Business units Business unit senior management is responsible for the management of operational risk within their business units.
This is achieved by ensuring that the operational risk management framework, policies and practices, as established by Group Operational Risk Management, are embedded within the business unit.
A network of Embedded Risk Managers ERMs within the business units assist management with the management and monitoring of operational risk.
Material operational risks are addressed at the individual business unit risk committees and, if necessary, escalated to Group Operational Risk Management and the BRCC.
Assurance All processes are subject to reviews by Internal Audit as well as onsite reviews by the relevant supervisors.
In certain instances, internal specialist subject matter experts are called on to validate the operational risk practices.
Operational risk management framework The operational risk management framework adopted by the group sets out a structured and consistent approach for implementing a systematic, effective and ef cient process to manage operational risk across the group.
A group wide operational risk system is used for the recording, identi cation, assessment, measurement and monitoring of operational risks facing the individual business units.
This system allows for the recording and linking of risk assessments, risk events and risk indicators where appropriate, enabling a comprehensive view of the operational risk pro le.
Detailed analysis and reporting across the operational risk pro le is also possible.
144 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Risk ownership Roles and responsibilities Risk management The following diagram provides an overview of the Operational Risk Management framework.
Risk management activities Risk appetite Objectives Governance Measurement and methodologies Risk assessment Policies and procedures Reporting Indicators Monitoring Risk events Controls Assurance Risk Assessment Framework RAF Risk universe Strategic Assurance Process risks Outsourcing Information People and Legal risks Regulatory risks Technology security and culture integrity Business Corporate Financial risks continuity services Operational risk systems Annual report 2009 145 Risk and governance Risk management Operational risk identi cation and risk assessments The risk assessment process is central to the operational risk management process.
A qualitative risk assessment is conducted using an identi ed universe of operational risks contained in the Risk Assessment Framework RAF.
The RAF is organised into risk areas and relevant associated detailed risks.
Risks are assessed based on likelihood of occurrence and consequence, arriving at a controlled operational risk exposure.
Surveys and publications from reliable sources are monitored and compared to the RAF to con rm relevance and completeness, and to identify emerging issues.
The assessment of risks and controls is conducted at business unit level and is subject to treatment and escalation in terms of the Operational Risk Appetite Policy, which sets out the operational risk exposure that we are willing to accept or retain.
Risk assessments are reviewed regularly based on the internal and external events, changes in the business environment, and new products introduced.
Risks are assessed and considered before implementation of new products in line with the relevant policies and procedures applicable to the respective operating jurisdictions.
Operational risk events As shown in the graphs below, the majority of our internal risk events, by value, fall into the execution, delivery and process management event type.
The majority of these events are infrequent and unexpected but high value events.
The majority of events, by count, fall into the external fraud event type.
These relate to credit card fraud.
Infrequent, unexpected, high value risk events for the financial year 2009 represent 96% of the total value of the risk events and less than one percent of the total number of risk events.
Operational risk events by risk category - % of total risk events by count % 2009 % of total risk events by count Business Clients, Damage to Employment Execution, External Internal 2008 % of total risk disruption and products and physical practices and delivery and fraud fraud events by count system failures business assets workplace process practices safety management 146 Annual report 2009 11.1% 10.9% 1.4% 1.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% 0.2% 36.4% 47.6% 50.7% 39.6% 0.1% 0.1% Risk and governance Risk management Operational risk events by category - % of total risk events by value % 2009 % of total risk events by value Business Clients, Damage to Employment Execution, External Internal 2008 % of total risk disruption and products and physical practices and delivery and fraud fraud events by value system failures business assets workplace process practices safety management Internal risk events are recorded in the group wide operational risk system.
Causal analyses are performed and actions are identi ed to mitigate and minimise losses and improve controls.
Processes are in place for the monitoring and escalation of recorded events.
External events from public sources are monitored, recorded and analysed in the same manner as internal events.
This allows for enhancement or improvements to the risk and control environment through the lessons learnt by these events.
Operational risk indicators Key operational risk indicators are monitored.
The process remains an ongoing area of development.
Operational risk measurement Material operational risks relevant to the jurisdictions we operate in have been identi ed by Group Operational Risk Management in conjunction with the business units.
In the year under review each material operational risk was subjected to a scenario evaluation.
Various plausible, extreme, infrequent scenarios were developed and documented for each material operational risk.
Scenario information was sourced from an evaluation of the external business environment, internal business considerations, internal and external event data, and controlled operational risk exposures.
The scenario evaluations are combined through Monte Carlo simulation to determine a business unit and group proposed operational risk measure which is considered as an input into the internal operational risk capital.
This is subject to review by the Capital Committee.
Reporting Group Operational Risk reports to the Board, BRCC and Audit Committee on a regular basis.
These reports are based on monitoring performed by Group Operational Risk Management and input received from the business units.
This continues to be an area of focus to improve the relevance and reliability of reporting.
Annual report 2009 147 3.8% 0.2% 2.3% 3.2% 0.0% 0.0% 4.0% 4.3% 67.0% 77.8% 18.6% 14.2% 4.2% 0.2% Risk and governance Risk management Other key operational risks Business continuity risk The ability of the group to respond to and maintain an appropriate level of operating capability in the event of a disruption is a signi cant area of focus.
Senior management is responsible for maintaining a crisis management as well as a business continuity capability for each of the groups geographical locations.
A network of business continuity coordinators has responsibility for embedding the business continuity capability.
This capability is subject to independent monitoring, review and assessment by both Group Operational Risk Management and Internal Audit.
Business continuity risk awareness and practices have continued to mature throughout the group.
Continuous improvement of the operating resilience allowed the group to respond effectively to various minor incidents without signi cant disruption to the business.
Regular and robust simulations are conducted throughout the group to assess the readiness to respond to disruptions and identify areas that require remediation.
Financial crime Financial crime is considered a key operational risk.
The focus is on risk identi cation, loss investigation, recovery and prosecution, and recommending enhanced practices to mitigate this risk.
Incidents of fraud are investigated, recovery initiated and legal action implemented.
It is the groups policy to take conclusive action on all financial crime that is identi ed as being perpetrated against us.
Case information is collected and compiled by the specialists in the correct manner, to facilitate the legal process and obtain the necessary convictions.
Financial crime remains an area of concern.
During the year, various internal and external incidents were identi ed, investigated and reported, in order to minimise losses and recover assets and, where appropriate, to report suspicious transactions to the relevant authorities.
Initiatives to improve awareness and internal processes were undertaken.
Developments In the year under review the group was subject to regulatory onsite reviews by the SARB, the FSA and the Bank of Mauritius.
We participated in the international Loss Data Collection exercise.
This assisted in con rming and re ning loss data collection standards and practices.
As a result of the current financial crisis and the lessons learnt from this, we strive to continuously strengthen our operational risk environment by regularly evaluating the risk assessments and control framework and updating them in line with developments in the market and emerging exposures.
Areas of focus: Business continuity capability rigorous and ongoing simulations and readiness evaluation.
Awareness and understanding of financial crime.
Developments in this area are monitored through participation in the industry fora.
Enhancements to the IT Risk Assessment Framework which incorporates the Information Security Framework.
The re nement of the operational risk measurement methodologies through scenario analysis.
Key operational risk indicators that are relevant have been considered and remain an ongoing development area.
Improvement of the quality of operational risk management data.
Introduction of a new risk and causal analysis approach to enable us to further analyse internal and external risk events.
Improvements to the reporting framework.
Continued enhancements based on industry practice.
Our processes provide for continuous development and monitoring to ensure that the framework and practices remain relevant and are appropriate and adequate and in line with leading industry practices including regulatory requirements.
Embedding operational risk management awareness and practices in our business remains an ongoing activity.
Insurance The group maintains adequate insurance to cover key insurable risks.
The insurance process and requirements are managed by the Group Insurance Risk Manager.
Regular interaction between Group Operational Risk Management and Group Insurance Risk ensures that there is an exchange of information of both areas in order to enhance the mitigation of operational risks.
