Risk and governance Risk management Revenue from trading activities within our Capital Markets division mn 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 March 2009 March 2008 UK and Europe South Africa Australia Total Audited Market risk - derivatives We enter various derivatives contracts, both as principal for trading purposes and as customer for hedging foreign exchange, commodity, equity and interest rate exposures.
These include financial futures, options, swaps and forward rate agreements.
The risks associated with derivative instruments are monitored in the same manner as for the underlying instruments.
Risks are also measured across the product range to take into account possible correlations.
Information showing our derivative trading portfolio over the reporting period on the basis of the notional principal and the fair value of all derivatives can be found on page 280.
The notional principal indicates our activity in the derivatives market and represents the aggregate size of total outstanding contracts at year end.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument represents the present value of the positive or negative cash ows which would have occurred had we closed out the rights and obligations arising from that instrument in an orderly market transaction at year end.
Both these amounts re ect only derivatives exposure and exclude the value of the physical financial instruments used to hedge these positions.
Balance sheet risk management Balance sheet risk description Balance sheet risk management encompasses the independent monitoring and prudential management of the financial risks relating to our asset and liability portfolios, comprising market liquidity, funding, concentration and non-trading interest rate risks on balance sheet.
Balance sheet risk governance structure Management believes that a centralised framework permits active global management of balance sheet risk in this complex environment.
Balance sheet risk management is discharged within each geography, using regional expertise and local market access as appropriate, continuously assessing the risks whilst taking changes in market conditions into account.
Under the delegated authority of the board of directors, Asset and Liability Management Committees ALCOs within each region are mandated to manage the balance sheet risks on a consistent basis with pre-approved principles and policies across all business activities without exception.
Detailed policies cover both domestic and foreign currency funds and set out sources and amounts of funds necessary to ensure the continuation of our operations without undue interruption.
Each region further ensures that the liquidity management framework is compatible with local regulatory requirements and limits are set according to the depth and liquidity of the market in which we operate.
130 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Risk management We continue to improve risk measurement processes and methodologies in line with regulatory requirements and banking industry best practice.
The Balance Sheet Risk Management team ensure that a comprehensive and consistent governance framework for balance sheet risk management is followed across the group.
The Balance Sheet Risk Management team independently identi es, quanti es and monitors risks, providing governance and oversight of the Treasury activities within the Capital Markets division, and the execution of our policy, to management, ALCO, ERRF, BRCC and the board.
In carrying out its duties the Balance Sheet Risk Management team monitors historical liquidity trends, tracks prospective onand off-balance sheet liquidity obligations, identi es and measures internal and external liquidity warning signals which permit early detection of liquidity issues including identi cation and testing of various company-speci c and market-driven stress scenarios through daily liquidity reporting and scenario analysis which quantify our positions.
The governance framework adopted for the management of structural interest rate risk in the banking book mirrors that of liquidity risk.
The risk is transferred to and managed within our Treasury operations.
Balance sheet risk mitigation The Treasury function centrally directs the raising of wholesale liabilities, establishes and maintains access to stable funds with the appropriate tenor and pricing characteristics, and manages liquid securities and collateral, providing for a controlled and exible response to volatile market conditions.
The Treasury function is the sole interface with the wholesale market for both cash and derivative transactions, and actively manages the liquidity mismatch and non-trading interest rate risk arising from our asset and liability portfolios.
The Treasury function is required to exercise tight control over funding, liquidity, concentration and non-trading interest rate risk within conservative parameters.
Balance Sheet Risk Management combines traditional gap analysis and quantitative models, including stress tests.
This is designed to measure the range of possible future liquidity needs and potential distribution of net interest income and economic value under various scenarios covering a spectrum of events in which we could nd ourselves and prepare accordingly.
The modelling process is supported by ongoing technical and economic analysis.
The result is formally reported to management, ERRF, BRCC and the board on a regular basis.
The entire process is underpinned by a system of extensive internal and external controls.
An active presence is maintained in professional markets and each jurisdiction manages the wholesale money market capacity for our name, supported by efforts in relationship management with corporate and institutional clients.
Important factors in assuring the stability of unsecured funding are competitive rates, the maintenance of depositors con dence and our reputation.
Non-trading interest rate risk description Non-trading interest rate risk is the impact on net interest earnings and sensitivity to economic value, as a result of increases or decreases in interest rates arising from the execution of our core business strategies and the delivery of products and services to our customers.
Sources of banking-related risk exposures include potential adverse effect of volatility and changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads.
These affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs, when applied to our rate sensitive asset and liability portfolios, which has a direct effect on future net interest income and the economic value of equity.
The mix of interest rate repricing characteristics is in uenced by the underlying financial needs of customers.
Management and measurement of non-trading interest rate risk Non-trading interest rate risk in the banking book is a normal part of banking and arises from the provision of retail, private client and wholesale non-trading banking products and services.
We are exposed to repricing risk due to timing differences in the xed rate maturity and oating rate repricing of bank assets, liabilities and derivative positions.
Additionally we are exposed to yield curve and basis risk, due to the difference in repricing characteristics of two oating-rate indices.
We are not materially exposed to optionality risk, as contract breakage penalties on xed-rate advances speci cally cover this risk.
Non-trading interest rate risk is measured and managed both from a net interest margin earnings perspective over a speci ed time horizon, and the sensitivity of economic value of equity to hypothetical changes to market factors on the current values of financial assets and liabilities.
Economic value measures have the advantage that all future cash ows are considered and therefore can highlight risk beyond the earnings horizon.
The aim is to protect and enhance net interest income and economic value in accordance with the board approved risk appetite.
The standard tools that are used to measure the sensitivity of earnings to changes in interest rates are the repricing gap which provides a basic representation of the balance sheet structure and allows for the detection of interest rate risk by concentration of repricing: net interest income sensitivity which measures the change in accruals expected over the speci ed horizon in response to a shift in the yield curve: and economic value sensitivity and stress-testing to macroeconomic movement or changes which measures the interest risk implicit change in net worth as a result of a change in interest rates on the current values of financial assets and liabilities.
This combination of measures provides senior management and ALCO with an assessment of the financial impact of identi ed rate changes on potential future net interest income and sensitivity to changes in economic value.
This is consistent with the standardised interest rate measurement recommended by the Basel II framework for assessing banking book nontrading interest rate risk.
Annual report 2009 131 Risk and governance Risk management Operationally, non-trading interest rate risk is transferred from the originating business to the Treasury function and aggregated or netted.
The Treasury function then implements appropriate balance sheet strategies to achieve a cost-effective source of funding and mitigates any residual undesirable risk where possible, by transferring the risk into the trading books within the Capital Markets division and managing these under market risk limits.
Policy requires that interest rate risk arising from xed interest loans is transferred from the originating business to Treasury by match-funding.
In turn, Central Treasury hedges all xed rate assets with a term of more than one year on a deal-by-deal basis to within 3-months repricing with the use of variable vs. xed interest rate swaps.
The market for these vanilla swaps is deep, with the result that such hedging is ef cient.
Likewise, Treasury hedges all xed rate deposits with a term of more than one year to within 3-months repricing.
Limits exist to ensure there is no undesired risk retained within any business or product area.
The process is supported by technical interest rate analysis and economic review of fundamental developments by geography taking global trends into account.
Treasury have an obligation to manage the market risk within our statutory and surplus liquid assets portfolios.
The Treasury mandate allows for tactically responding to market opportunities which may arise during changing interest rate cycles.
Although these portfolios also form part of the non-trading book, they are marked-to-market and are risk managed within prede ned risk limits.
Interest rate sensitivity gap The tables below show our non-trading interest rate mismatch.
These exposures affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs assuming no management intervention.
The tables below re ect our economic value sensitivity to a 2% parallel shift in interest rates assuming no management intervention, i. e. the numbers represent the change in our net asset value should such a hypothetical scenario arise.
UK and Europe million Sensitivity to the following interest rates All expressed in original currencies GBP USD EUR Other GBP GBP 200bp down 0.5 0.8 0.6 0.3 0.2 200bp up 0.5 0.8 0.6 0.3 0.2 South Africa million Sensitivity to the following interest rates All expressed in original currencies ZAR GBP USD AUD ZAR 200bp down 12.7 0.1 0.2 0.2 9.5 200bp up 13.9 0.3 0.1 0.1 10.2 Australia million AUD 200bp down 1.9 200bp up 1.9 Liquidity risk description Liquidity risk is the risk that we have insuf cient capacity to fund increases in assets, or are unable to meet our payment obligations as they fall due, including repaying depositors or maturing wholesale debt.
This risk is inherent in all banking operations and can be impacted by a range of institution-speci c and market-wide events.
Risk management has become more sophisticated with liquidity risk being no exception and we consider both funding liquidity risk and market liquidity risk.
Sources of liquidity risk include unforeseen withdrawals of demand deposits, restricted access to new funding with appropriate maturity and interest rate characteristics, inability to liquidate a marketable asset timeously with minimal risk of capital loss, unpredicted customer non-payment of a loan obligation and a sudden increased demand for loans.
Management and measurement of liquidity risk Liquidity management is vital for protecting our depositors, preserving market con dence, safeguarding our reputation and ensuring sustainable growth with established funding sources.
Through active liquidity management, we seek to preserve stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of funding.
To accomplish this, management uses a variety of liquidity risk measures that consider market conditions, prevailing interest rates, projected balance sheet growth, and future funding and liquidity needs, whilst taking the desired nature and pro le of liabilities into account.
These metrics are used to develop our funding strategy and measure and manage the execution thereof.
The funding plan details the proportion of our external assets which are funded by customer liabilities, unsecured wholesale debt, equity and loan capital thus maintaining an appropriate mix of term funding and strong balance sheet liquidity ratios within approved risk limits.
The bank maintains an internal funds transfer pricing system based on prevailing market rates, thus signalling the right incentive to our lending businesses.
Central Treasury charge out the cost of longand short-term funding to internal consumers of liquidity and provide long-term stable funding for our asset creation activity.
We are an active participant in the global financial markets.
Our relationship is continuously enhanced through regular investor presentations internationally.
During the year we have instituted various unsecured term syndicated loan programmes to broaden and diversify term-funding in supplementary markets and currencies, enhancing the proven capacity to borrow in the money markets during challenging conditions and global market dislocation.
Decisions on the timing and tenor of accessing these markets are based on relative costs, general market conditions, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity pro le.
134 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Risk management We place great value on the establishment of strong relationships with all our investors and we maintain an active presence in the money markets in each region within which we operate.
We bene t from stable unsecured liability balances through the normal course of business.
These liability balances are a consistent source of funding due to the nature of the businesses from which they are generated.
We target a diversi ed funding base, avoiding undue concentrations by investor type, maturity, market source, instrument and currency.
This demonstrates our ability to generate funding from a broad range of sources in a variety of geographic locations, which enhances financial exibility and limits dependence on any one source.
We acknowledge the importance of our private clients as the principal source of stable and well diversi ed funding for our Private Bank risk assets without recourse to the wholesale markets.
We continue to develop products to attract and service the investment needs of our Private Bank clients.
Although the contractual repayments of many customer accounts are on demand or at short notice, expected cash ows vary signi cantly from contractual maturity.
For this reason, behavioural pro ling is applied to liabilities with an indeterminable maturity.
This process is used to identify sources of structural liquidity in the form of core deposits that exhibit stable behaviour.
Our Private Bank continued to successfully raise private client deposits through a period of dislocation in the financial markets with customer deposits increasing by 17.0% to 7.7 billion over the financial year.
We engage in transactions that involve the use of both special purpose entities and asset securitisation structures in connection with the sale of certain mortgages that provides our customers with access to the commercial paper market.
Securitisation represents a relatively modest proportion of our current funding pro le, but provides additional exibility and a source of liquidity.
These entities form part of the consolidated group balance sheet as reported.
We maintain a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered, cash, government, or bank paper typically eligible for repurchase with the central bank, and near cash well in excess of the statutory requirements as protection against unexpected disruptions in cash ows.
In aggregate, Investec is a net liquidity provider to the interbank market, placing signi cantly more funds with other banks than our short-term interbank borrowings.
These portfolios are managed within limits and, apart from acting as a buffer under going concern conditions, also form an integral part of the broader liquidity generation strategy in the unlikely event of a liquidity crunch.
From 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2009 average cash and near cash balances over the period amounted to 4.9 billion 1.7 billion in UK and Europe: R41.3 billion in South Africa and AUD1.0 billion in Australia.
A key component of our liquidity management framework is assumptions-based planning and scenario modelling to estimate the funding requirement to meet expected growth.
Anticipated onand off-balance sheet cash ows are subjected to a variety of scenarios in order to evaluate the impact of both likely outcomes and unlikely but plausible events on liquidity positions.
Scenarios and liquidity stress tests are designed to measure and manage the liquidity position such that payment obligations can be met under a wide range of normal and stressed market conditions, in which the rate and timing of deposit withdrawals and drawdowns on lending facilities are varied, and the ability to access funding and to generate funds from asset portfolios is restricted.
Our liquidity risk parameters re ect a range of liquidity stress assumptions which are reviewed regularly and updated as needed.
Operationally the preparation of cash ow projections for assets and liabilities and funding requirements corresponding to the forecasted cash ow mismatch are translated into exible shortand long-term funding plans within each legal entity and globally.
This ensures the smooth management of the day-today liquidity position within conservative parameters and further validates that, in the event of either a rm-speci c or general market event, we and are able to generate suf cient liquidity to withstand short-term liquidity stress.
We are currently unaware of any circumstances that could signi cantly detract from our ability to raise funding appropriate to our needs.
We maintain liquidity contingency plans and the identi cation of alternative sources of funds in the market.
This is to ensure that cash ow estimates and commitments can be met in the event of general market disruption or adverse business and economic scenarios, while minimising detrimental long-term implications for the business.
Our liquidity management processes encompass principles set out by the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction, namely the FSA, the SARB and APRA.
Annual report 2009 135 Risk and governance Risk management Total Investec group cash and near cash trend mn 6 000 5 000 Average 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 0 Apr 08 May 08 Jun 08 Jul 08 Aug 08 Sep 08 Oct 08 Nov 08 Dec 08 Jan 09 Feb 09 Mar 09 Investec plc cash and near cash trend mn 3 000 Average 2 000 1 000 0 Apr 08 May 08 Jun 08 Jul 08 Aug 08 Sep 08 Oct 08 Nov 08 Dec 08 Jan 09 Feb 09 Mar 09 136 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Risk management Investec Limited cash and near cash trend Rmn 50 000 Average 40 000 30 000 20 000 10 000 0 Apr 08 May 08 Jun 08 Jul 08 Aug 08 Sep 08 Oct 08 Nov 08 Dec 08 Jan 09 Feb 09 Mar 09 An analysis of cash and near-cash Total group Investec plc 33.4% 47.8% 8.6% 4 866 million 2 480 million 28.6% 38.0% 43.6% Investec Limited 36.0% R32 704 million 32.6% Cash 31.4% Near cash Central Bank guaranteed liquidity Near cash other monetisable assets Annual report 2009 137 Risk and governance Risk management Bank and non-bank depositor concentration by type UK and Europe South Africa 49.8% 1.7% 27.0% 8 730 million R139 029 million 18.0% 29.2% 13.0% 11.1% 46.8% 3.4% Australia 26.5% A$1 968 million 4.5% Fund managers Financial institutions banks 69.0% Public sector Corporate Private Banking clients Other 138 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Risk management Liquidity mismatch The tables that follow show our liquidity mismatch across our core geographies.
The tables re ect that loans and advances to customers are largely nanced by stable funding sources.
With respect to the contractual liquidity mismatch: No assumptions are made, and we record all asset and liabilities with the underlying contractual maturity as determined by the cash ow pro le for each deal.
As an integral part of the broader liquidity generation strategy, we maintain a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered cash, government, or bank paper typically eligible for repurchase with the central bank, and near cash as a buffer against both expected and unexpected cash ows.
The actual contractual pro le of this asset class is of little consequence, as practically Investec would meet any unexpected net cash out ows by selling these securities.
We have: - Set the time horizon to one month to monetise our cash and near cash portfolio of available for sale discretionary treasury assets, where there are deep secondary markets for this elective asset class.
- Set the time horizon to on demand to monetise our statutory liquid assets for which liquidity is guaranteed by the central bank.
- Reported the contractual pro le by way of a note to the tables.
With respect to the behavioural liquidity mismatch: The new funding we would require under normal business circumstances is shown in the behavioural mismatch.
To this end, behavioural pro ling is applied to liabilities with an indeterminable maturity, as the contractual repayments of many customer accounts are on demand or at short notice but expected cash ows vary signi cantly from contractual maturity.
An internal analysis model is used, based on statistical research of the historical series of products, which models the point of probable maturity.
In addition, re-investment behaviour, with pro le and attrition based on history, is applied to term deposits in the normal course of business.
A noteworthy characteristic of the market turmoil is the adverse effects it has had on the liquidity and funding risk pro le of the banking system in general.
At a universal level, these may be characterised as follows: Banks became unwilling to lend to each other beyond the very short-term resulting in pressure being placed on funding costs The ability of many market participants to issue unsecured debt has been constrained Asset classes considered to be liquid turned out to be illiquid with no readily available repo market.
In response to the global financial crisis, many governments and central banks have taken unprecedented action to alleviate the effects of market turmoil making available guaranteed funding facilities and introducing wide-ranging scal stimuli.
The last financial year was characterised by volatile global interest rates as policy makers continued to respond to the global financial crisis and resultant market dislocations in different geographies.
Pounds Sterling interest rates The financial year began with a further modest easing in the Bank Rate, Aprils meeting reducing the rate by 0.25% to 5.0% in reaction to ongoing signs that the economy was continuing to slow and credit conditions were not improving.
This followed a precipitous drop in equities at the start of 2008 and a savage interest rate response from the Federal Reserve.
However, in ation concerns continued to balance the Monetary Policy Committees MPC concerns for the economic outlook, with some members considering tightening policy over the summer as oil prices surged pushing in ation to peak at 5.2% in September 2008.
The collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008 epitomised growing financial strains that spilt into the real economy in the final quarter of 2008, realising fears that many had held since the onset of the financial crisis.
The MPC responded to growing signs of economic collapse, even after emergency measures were put in place to avert a financial meltdown that Bank of England BoE Governor admitted had been close in October 2008.
The MPC reduced rates by a record 3% in the fourth quarter of 2008.
Reductions continued in the first quarter of 2009 on a monthly basis but smaller until the Bank Rate reached 0.50% in March 2009.
This is the lowest rates have been since the BoEs inception in 1694.
In March, with rates effectively at zero, the BoE announced it would follow a path of quantitative easing by purchasing assets to expand the monetary base and hence, it is hoped, broad money.
The BoE announced a plan to buy 75 billion of a variety of assets, but largely gilts.
Euro interest rates Despite signs of growing international economic turmoil and a signi cant weakening in survey evidence the European Central Bank ECB left its key re nancing rate on hold at 4.0% in the early stages of the financial year, only to raise the rate to 4.25% in July 2008.
This re ected the continued surge in oil prices and its impact on Eurozone in ation, which rose to 4.0% in June.
A signi cant rise in in ation expectations at this time probably proved the final straw.
Nevertheless, the breaking of the financial tidal wave on the real economy in the wake of the Lehman Brothers collapse in September 2008 particularly its impact on international trade, which saw German exports fall in November 2008 alone by 11.0% prompted the ECB to reverse its policy sharply across the fourth quarter of 2008.
The ECB cut the re nancing rate by 1.75% in the fourth quarter of 2008 to 2.5%, moving in each month.
The final quarter of this financial year has additionally seen 0.5% rate cuts in January and March 2008, taking the re nancing rate to 1.5%, with a further cut expected at the start of the next financial year.
Moreover, the ECB initiated a more technical change in October 2008, allowing unlimited liquidity in its money market operations.
This depressed overnight interest rates relative to the re nancing rate, driving them closer to the ECB deposit rate in what looked like a premeditated side effect.
Following the subsequent lowering of the deposit rate relative to the re nancing rate in January 2009, overnight rates have traded between 0.5% to 0.75% lower than the re nancing rate.
Rand interest rates The South African Reserve Bank SARB increased interest rates by 0.5% in June 2008 following on April 2008s 0.5% increase bringing South Africas interest rate cycle to its most recent peak, thereafter the cycle turned down, with the first cut of 0.5% occurring in December 2008.
February 2009 saw monetary easing of 1.0%, with the Reserve Bank Governor announcing that if he had had his way a full 2.0% cut would have occurred instead at that meeting.
Citing that the rapidly deteriorating state of the economy requires constant monitoring and urgent action by policy makers, the SARB then promptly announced it would meet to decide on the interest rate stance every month this year instead, with the exception of July, which enabled it to ease monetary policy by a further 1% in March 2009.
Australian interest rates The Reserve Bank of Australia RBA had increased its Cash Rate Target to 7.25% at the close of the previous financial year, although comments from the central bank at the time suggested this could well prove the peak.
For the first half of this financial year, the RBA was torn between growing signs of deteriorating domestic economic conditions, a worsening international outlook and a surge in oil and commodity prices driving in ation higher, which peaked at 5.0% in the third quarter of 2008.
The RBA cut rates by 0.25% pre-emptively in early September 2008 to 7.0%, but Septembers financial meltdown caused a collapse in international activity and the domestic economy slowed alarmingly.
The RBA began cutting its policy rate aggressively, down to 4.25% by the end of 2008.
Since then it has cut rates by a further 1.0% in February to 3.25% and we suspect this is close to the bottom of its cycle.
USD interest rates the Federal Reserve FED ended the previous financial year with a savage round of rate cuts, the Fed Funds Target started this financial year at just 2.25%.
Although the Fed reduced the target further to 2.0% in April 2008, rates held at this level until September 2008 and the Lehman Brothers collapse.
This prompted a further round of signi cant monetary policy easing.
The Fed slashed the Fed Funds target to a range of 0-0.25% in December 2008, exhausting conventional policy moves.
However, from September 2008 it engaged in a series of operations that signi cantly expanded its balance sheet, with a view to providing support for key asset markets, initially commercial paper markets which rose in the immediate wake of Lehman Brothers and money market funds.
Fed Chairman Bernanke indicated that this policy differed from the more traditional quantitative easing as its focus was not pre-fide ned targets for central bank liabilities, but on the composition of loans and securities on the asset side of the Feds balance sheet.
The Fed Chairman referred to this as credit easing.
This process continued to evolve with the Fed committing to buying mortgage securities and agency debt, although the differences between Feds policy and quantitative easing became less distinct towards the end of the financial year, when the central bank announced that it would commence purchasing US Treasuries as well.
142 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Risk management Balance sheet risk year in review Calendar year 2008 has to be one of the most torrid years for financial markets globally, causing severe dislocation in money markets and changing the funding landscape for future years to come.
Longer term liquidity all but dried up even for AAA names.
In the UK, the government was forced to take action to inject liquidity back into financial markets and restore con dence through various schemes including: A 50 billion Credit Guarantee Scheme in October 2008.
This is the scheme to which Investec Bank plc is eligible to participate.
A government auction buy-back of gilts of 75 billion which is ongoing to provide liquidity to the markets.
Nationalisation of Northern Rock and Bradford & Bingley and taking direct stakes in Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds TSB.
Injecting up to 500 billion of tax payers money by way of an Asset Protection Scheme.
The Bank of England asset purchase facility to assist in compressing spreads and improving liquidity in corporate bonds.
Investec Bank plc has bene ted in these troubled times as retail investors looked to diversify their savings across different institutions.
Investec Bank plc saw good in ows into its retail savings products and Structured Equity Derivatives offerings over the latter half of the year.
Despite the relatively sound economic position that Australia held at the commencement of the global financial crisis and the rapid action by the RBA and the Federal Government, the Australian economy has still been negatively impacted by the severity of deterioration in the global economic conditions.
In October 2008 the Australian government announced a Government Guarantee Scheme the Scheme for deposit and wholesale funding.
The Scheme guarantees bank deposits up to AUD1 million for a period up to 12 October 2011, while large deposits and non-deposit debt may be guaranteed for period of up to 60 months through the payment of a fee.
Subsequent to the announcement of the Scheme, Investec Bank Australia Ltds IBAL experienced major in ows of private client funds resulting in record levels being achieved.
IBALs activity in increasing funding through both the Private Bank and wholesale funding bases has been utilised to further increase an already strong liquidity position and to lengthen the average maturity pro le of liabilities well in excess of regulatory and internal policy requirements.
The South African interest rate environment was exceptionally volatile and eventful during the financial year ended 31 March 2009.
The second quarter however, brought a major change in interest rate expectations as the fide ationary risks of the burgeoning crisis in global financial markets became apparent.
This made for exceptionally good trading conditions for the Capital Markets trading teams.
However, liquidity conditions worsened over the financial year, particularly after the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
Fortunately South African banks were largely shielded from the worst of the fall-out.
However, the cost of term deposits continued to rise re ecting higher credit risk spreads, fortunately partly offset by signi cant increases in rates on new loans written by the bank.
We concluded a USD450 million two year syndicated loan rollover in October 2008 which buttressed our liquidity.
However, a combination of asset growth, a slowdown in securitisation and slower liability growth resulted in a decrease in the amounts of surplus liquidity available on the South African balance sheet.
We successfully embarked on several term debt funding initiatives.
This allowed us to maintain liquidity above internal and external liquidity targets.
Decisions concerning timing of issuance and the tenor of liabilities are based upon relative costs, general market conditions, prospective views of organic balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity pro le.
Investec Bank plc: - e280 million Club Deal completed in April 2008 for one year at Libor 45bps.
- A total of 570 million bilateral facilities were arranged through long-standing historical relationships maintained with other banks throughout the course of the year.
Investec Bank Australia Limited IBAL : - During July 2008 IBAL undertook an inaugural dual currency syndicated debt facility raising USD80 million and e43 million with a one year term and with 13 European and North American financial institutions participating.
- During December 2008 IBAL modi ed its Debt Issuance Programme to allow it to undertake debt issuance in compliance with the Government Guarantee Scheme, and in February 2009 IBAL undertook two domestic term debt issues in Government Guaranteed format for a total raising of AUD600 million.
The first issue was for an amount of AUD400 million and a term of 3 years, the second issue, undertaken a few weeks subsequent to the first, was for an amount of AUD200 million in a xed rate structure, with a term of 5 years.
