Risk and governance Risk management Risk disclosures provided in line with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standard, 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 7 and disclosures on capital required by International Accounting Standard 1: Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 are included within this section of the Annual Report pages 85 to 164 with further disclosures provided within the financial statements section pages 241 to 319.
All sections, paragraphs, tables and graphs on which an audit opinion is expressed are marked as audited.
Philosophy and approach The group recognises that an effective risk management function is fundamental to its business.
Taking international best practice into account, our comprehensive risk management process involves identifying, quantifying, managing and mitigating the risks associated with each of our businesses.
Risk awareness, control and compliance are embedded in all our day-to-day activities.
Group Risk Management part of Group Services is independent from the business units and monitors, manages and reports on our risk to ensure it is within the stated appetite as mandated by the board of directors through the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
Business units are ultimately responsible for managing risks that arise.
We monitor and control risk exposure through credit, market, liquidity, operational and legal risk reporting teams.
This approach is core to assuming a tolerable risk and reward pro le, helping us to pursue controlled growth across our business.
Group Risk Management operates within an integrated geographical and divisional structure, in line with our management approach, ensuring that the appropriate processes are used to address all risks across the group.
Group Risk Management has specialist divisions in the UK, South Africa, Australia and smaller risk divisions in other regions to promote sound risk management practices.
Group Risk Management divisions with international responsibility are locally responsive yet globally aware.
This helps to ensure that all initiatives and businesses operate within our fide ned risk parameters and objectives.
Group Risk Management continually seeks new ways to enhance its techniques.
Group Risk Managements objectives Group Risk Managements objectives are to: Be the custodian of our risk management culture To ensure the business operates within the board stated appetite Set, approve and monitor adherence to risk parameters and limits across the group and ensure they are implemented and adhered to consistently Aggregate and monitor our exposure across risk classes Co-ordinate risk management activities across the organisation, covering all legal entities and jurisdictions Give the boards reasonable assurance that the risks we are exposed to are identi ed and, to the best extent possible, managed and controlled Run appropriate risk committees, as mandated by the board.
Executive summary of the year in review from a risk perspective As mentioned in the beginning of this report refer to pages 2 to 6 Investec has maintained a sound balance sheet with low leverage and a diversi ed business model which has enabled it to navigate through the present challenging operating environment.
This has been supported by the following key operating fundamentals: Intimate involvement of senior management ensuring stringent management of risk, liquidity and capital.
Strong risk and capital management culture: embedded into our day-to-day activities and values.
We seek to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and reward in our business, taking cognisance of all stakeholders interests.
Reward programmes that align directors and employees interests with those of stakeholders, ensuring that these programmes promote effective risk management.
Annual bonuses are closely linked to business performance, determined in the main by realised Economic Value Added pro t performance against pre-determined targets above a risk and capital weighted return.
This model has been consistently applied for in excess of ten years.
Credit and counterparty exposures to a select target market: our risk appetite continues to favour lower risk, income-based lending, with credit risk taken over a short to medium term.
Exposure is taken against fide ned target clients displaying a pro le of good character, sound financial strength and integrity, a core competency and a sound track record in the activity funded.
We have, however, experienced an increase in impairments and defaults as a result of weak economic conditions.
The credit loss ratio has increased to 1.1% of core loans and advances, in line with our expectations.
Limited exposure to rated and unrated structured credit investments: representing less than 2% of total assets.
A low leverage ratio of approximately 12 times.
A low level of net assets and liabilities exposed to the volatility of IFRS fair value accounting: with level 3 assets amounting to 1% of total assets.
Low equity investment risk exposure: within total investments comprising less than 3% of total assets.
Modest proprietary market risk within our trading portfolio: value at risk and stress testing scenarios remain at prudent levels.
Potential losses that could arise in our trading book portfolio stress tested under extreme market conditions 15 standard deviations amount to less than 1% of total operating income.
Annual report 2009 85 Risk and governance Risk management A high level of readily available, high quality liquid assets: average cash and near cash of approximately 5 billion, representing 20% to 30% of our liability base.
We continue to maintain a low reliance on interbank wholesale funding to fund core lending asset growth.
An increase in retail customer deposits and access to longer term funding initiatives.
Healthy capital ratios: we have always held capital in excess of regulatory requirements and we intend to perpetuate this philosophy.
We have strengthened our capital base and increased our net tangible asset value during the period.
Geographical and operational diversity with a high level of recurring income which continues to support sustainability of operating pro t, albeit at a lower level.
The global financial market crisis has resulted in increasing risk levels and has impacted the markets in which we operate on a number of fronts.
Our overall risk management philosophies, practices and frameworks have remained largely unchanged, and have held us in good stead over the period.
Detailed information on key developments during the financial year is provided in the sections that follow refer to pages 97, 98, 122, 125 to 129, 132, 133, 136 to 143, 146 to 148 and 158 to 161.
Maintaining credit quality, moderating loan growth, strictly managing risk and liquidity and continuing to grow our capital base remain strategic imperatives for the year ahead.
An overview of key risks In our ordinary course of business we face a number of risks that could affect our business operations.
These risks are summarised brie y in the table below.
The sections that follow provide information on a number of these risk areas.
For additional information pertaining to the management and monitoring of these risks, see the references provided.
Key risks Reference Credit and counterparty risk exposes us to losses caused by financial or other See pages 91 to 120 problems experienced by our clients Liquidity risk may impair our ability to fund our operations See pages 134 to 143 Our net interest earnings and net asset value may be adversely affected by interest See pages 130 to 134 rate risk Market, business and general economic conditions and uctuations could adversely See pages 121 to 130 affect our businesses in a number of ways We may be unable to recruit, retain and motivate key personnel See Our Business Responsibility website Employee misconduct could cause harm that is dif cult to detect See pages 144 to 148 Operational risk may disrupt our business or result in regulatory action See pages 144 to 148 We are exposed to non-traded currency risk, where uctuations in exchange rates See page 17 against Pounds Sterling, could have an impact on our financial results We may be vulnerable to the failure of our systems and breaches of our security See pages 144 to 148 systems We may have insuf cient capital in the future and may be unable to secure additional See pages 150 to 154 nancing when it is required The financial services industry in which we operate is intensely competitive See pages 8 to 10 and pages 17 and 88 Legal and regulatory risks are substantial in our businesses See page 149 Reputational, strategic and business risk See page 149 We may be exposed to pension risk in our UK operations See page 149 Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may in the future also impair our business operations.
Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of these risk factors.
Risk management framework, committees and forums A number of committees and forums identify and manage risk at both a business unit level in various locations and at a group level, as described more fully below.
These committees and forums operate together with Group Risk Management and are mandated by the board.
A diagram of our governance and risk framework is provided on page 170.
Committee Function Board Risk and Capital Committee BRCC Members: executive and non-executive directors senior See page 179 management by invitation Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: six times a year DLC Capital Committee Members: executive and non-executive directors and senior See page 181 management Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: at least quarterly 86 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Risk management Committee Function Executive Risk Review Forum See page 180 Members: executive directors and senior management Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: every Friday except on BRCC dates Group Investment Committee Members: executive directors and senior management Is responsible for reviewing and approving: Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO - Acquisitions or disposals of strategic investments in which Frequency: weekly we act as principal and retain an equity interest above predetermined thresholds - Capital expenditure or disposals above predetermined thresholds Group Credit Committee Members: executive and senior management.
Non-executive Considers and approves the granting of credit to counterparties directors have a level of oversight which is exercised within the in excess of the mandates granted to divisional and other applicable committee credit forums on a global basis Chairman: Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance director Sets the level of our maximum acceptable counterparty, Frequency: weekly geographic, asset, concentration and industry exposures Reviews and approves changes to credit policy and methodologies, including: - Large exposure policy - dealing with the control of concentration risk and exposure measurement methodology - Provisioning policy - dealing with the classi cation of past due amounts and minimum acceptable provisions - Excess management policy - dealing with the classi cation of excesses and prescribed escalation procedures - Long dated exposure by counterparty and instrument type - Property valuation policy - speci es the framework for valuation of physical security Group Deal Forum Members: executive and senior management.
Non-executive Considers, approves and mitigates the risks inherent in any directors have a level of oversight which is exercised within the acquisition, disposal, new product or other non-standard applicable committee transactions that we are considering Chairman: Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance director Frequency: weekly Group Market Risk Forum Members: Global heads of risk, market risk and the trading Manages market risk by identifying and quantifying risks on the desks: senior management: members of the market risk teams basis of current and future expectations and ensuring that and other members of Group Risk Management trading occurs within fide ned parameters Chairman: Mark Trollip Global Head of Market Risk Reviews market risk limits Frequency: weekly Considers new business initiatives with a market risk element Asset and Liability Committee Members: executive, senior management, economist, treasurer, Sets our funding and liquidity policy and non-trading interest business heads and Head of Asset and Liability Management rate risk policy, which translates into a suite of limits that fide ne Chairman: Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance director our risk appetite Frequency: monthly or ad hoc if required Directs the implementation of the methodology, techniques, models and risk measures Reviews the structure of our balance sheet and business strategies, taking into account market conditions, including stress tests Maintains liquidity contingency plans Operational Risk Committee UK Members: Chief Risk Of cer, Head of Operational Risk and senior Promotes sound operational risk management practices management Considers and recommends the enhancement of operational Chairman: Bharat Thakker risk management practices and techniques Frequency: quarterly Considers key operational risk reports Operational Risk Working Group South Africa and UK Members: Head of Operational Risk, members of operational risk In the UK matters are reported to the Operational Risk management team and divisional operational risk managers Committee for escalation to BRCC.
In South Africa the embedded risk managers Operational Risk Working Group is responsible for Frequency: monthly escalating matters to BRCC Annual report 2009 87 Risk and governance Risk management Committee Function Group Legal Risk Forum Members: executive directors, senior management and Considers and manages legal risks throughout the group divisional legal managers Chairman: David Nurek Global Head of Legal Risk Frequency: half-yearly or ad hoc if required DLC Audit Committee Members: non-executive directors See page 176 Chairman: Sam Abrahams non-executive director The Internal Audit, Compliance and Operational Risk Frequency: minimum of three times a year Departments report to the Audit Committee Note: In the sections that follow the following abbreviations are used on numerous occasions: BRCC Board Risk and Capital Committee ERRF Executive Risk Review Forum FSA Financial Services Authority SARB South African Reserve Bank APRA Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority Key markets indicators The table below provides on overview of some key statistics that should be considered when reviewing the developments within each area of risk.
31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Average over Audited period end period end the period Market indicators FTSE all share 1 984 2 927 2 486 JSE all share 20 364 29 588 24 734 Australia all ords 3 532 5 410 4 491 S&P 500 798 1 323 1 090 Nikkei 8 110 12 526 10 866 Dow Jones 7 609 12 263 10 136 Exchange rates Rand Pounds Sterling 13.58 16.17 14.83 Rand Dollar 9.51 8.09 8.80 US Dollar Euro 1.33 1.58 1.42 Euro Pounds Sterling 1.08 1.25 1.21 Australian Dollar Pounds Sterling 2.07 2.18 2.19 US Dollar Pounds Sterling 1.43 1.99 1.73 Rates UK overnight 0.63% 5.55% 3.49% UK 10 year 3.17% 4.34% 4.22% UK Clearing Banks Base Rate 0.57% 5.25% 3.74% LIBOR - 3 month 1.65% 6.01% 4.63% SA R153 2010 6.88% 9.71% 9.18% SA R157 2015 8.18% 9.22% 8.87% Rand overnight 9.16% 10.60% 11.23% SA prime overdraft rate 13.00% 14.50% 15.06% JIBAR - 3 month 8.80% 11.38% 11.63% Reserve Bank of Australia cash target rate 3.25% 7.25% 5.84% US 10 year 2.67% 3.41% 3.41% Commodities Gold USD919 oz USD917 oz USD869 oz Gas Oil Futures USD420 mt USD969 mt USD812 mt Platinum USD1 129 oz USD1 966 oz USD1 371 oz Macro-economic UK GDP % change over the period 1.0% 2.90% n c UK per capita GDP 23 496 22 712 South Africa GDP % real growth over the calendar year 3.10% 5.10% n c South Africa per capita GDP real value R 25 897 25 499 Australia GDP % change over the period 1.6% 4.20% n c Australia per capita GDP AUD 55 260 51 985 Source: Datastream, Bloombergs, Of ce for National Statistics, SARB Quarterly Bulletin, Australian Bureau of Statistics 88 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Risk management Integrated global risk management structure Group Risk and Finance Director - Glynn Burger Global Head of Risk - Ciaran Whelan Divisional and geographic roles Global UK and Europe South Africa Australia Credit Risk Ciaran Whelan Ian Wohlman Justin Cowley Mike Sargeant Market Risk Mark Trollip Boaz Schechter Adrienne Betts Adam Rapeport Balance Sheet Risk Management Cyril Daleski Wendy Robinson Cyril Daleski Peter Binetter Operational Risk Colin Fiddes Bharat Thakker Colin Fiddes Shirley Snoyman Legal Risk David Nurek Richard Brearley David Nurek Stephen Chipkin Internal Audit Bradley Tapnack Noel Sumner Brigid Schrieder Aik Leow Compliance Bradley Tapnack Richard Brearley Geoff Cook Belinda Dorfan Securitisation principal finance activities and exposures Developments within the international economy have impacted on securitisation principal finance activities and have limited our strategic initiatives in this space.
The information below sets out the initiatives we have focused on over the past few years, albeit that some of these business lines have been signi cantly curtailed given the current economic climate.
UK and Europe The UK has developed a Principal Finance business over the last four years.
The business focuses on securitisation of our assets, predominantly residential and commercial mortgages.
We also undertake trading and investment in structured credit investments where we have invested in rated and unrated debt instruments largely within the UK and Europe and to a lesser extent in the US.
We retain residual net exposures amounting to 516 million to the assets originated, warehoused and securitised by Kensington.
Further information is provided on pages 52 and 53.
South Africa In South Africa, our securitisation business, which forms part of our Structured Finance unit, was established approximately eight years ago when the debt capital markets commenced development.
Over this time, we have arranged a number of corporate bond and commercial paper programmes and third party securitisations.
We have also assisted in the development of select securitisation platforms with external third party originating intermediaries.
At present we have provided limited warehouse funding lines to these intermediaries.
Furthermore, we provide standby liquidity facilities to two conduits, namely the Grayston Conduit 1 Pty Ltd Series 1 and Series 2, and to the securitisation structure of the Growthpoint Note Issuer Company Series 1 Tranche 1: Series 1 Tranche 2: Series 2: and Series 3.
These facilities, which totalled R3.9 billion as at 31 March 2009, have not been drawn on and are thus re ected as off-balance sheet contingent exposures in terms of our credit analysis refer to pages 90 and 91.
The liquidity risk associated with these facilities is included in the stress testing for the group and is managed in accordance with our overall liquidity position.
In addition we have, securitised assets we have originated in our Private Banking business in South Africa.
The primary motivations for the securitisation of assets within our Private Banking division are to: Provide an alternative source of funding Provide a source of revenue Act as a mechanism to transfer risk Leverage returns through the retention of equity tranches in low default rate portfolios.
Total assets that have been originated and securitised by the Private Bank amount to R9.3 billion 2008: R9.2 billion and include auto loans R0.9 billion, residential mortgages R6.9 billion and commercial mortgages R1.5 billion.
These securitisation structures have all been rated by Moodys.
Australia Investec Bank Australia Limited acquired Experien in 2007.
As is the case in the South African Private Banking division assets originated by the business have been securitised.
These amount to AUD914 million 2008: AUD756 million and include leases and instalment debtors AUD474 million, residential mortgages AUD31 million, commercial mortgages AUD246 million and other loans, for example overdrafts AUD163 million.
These securitisation structures have all been rated by Standard and Poors.
Audited Accounting treatment Refer to pages 283 and 284 Annual report 2009 89 Risk and governance Risk management Credit analysis In terms of our analysis of our credit and counterparty risk, exposures arising from securitisation principal finance activities re ect only those exposures to which we consider ourselves to be at risk notwithstanding accounting conventions.
In addition, assets that have been securitised by our Private Banking division are re ected as part of our core lending exposures and not our securitisation principal finance exposures as we believe this re ects the true nature and intent of these exposures and activities.
Nature of exposure activity Exposure Exposure Credit analysis Asset quality - Capital treatment as at as at internal risk relevant comments 31 March 31 March classifi cation 2009 2008 - mn - mn Structured credit investments 376 231 On-balance sheet During the year we Risk-weighted or Rated 243 121 securitisation principal wrote off approximately supervisory deductions Unrated 76 91 finance exposure 25 million against against primary and Other 57 19 these exposures secondary capital Kensington - mortgage assets Net exposures after 103 101 On-balance sheet Refer to pages 52 and Risk-weighted or impairments to the securitised securitisation principal 53 supervisory deductions book i. e. those assets that finance exposure.
against primary and have been securitised Classi ed as unrated.
secondary capital We are required to fully consolidate all assets acquired from Kensington.
However, only those assets to which we are at risk are re ected in this analysis with the balance re ected under no credit exposures Net exposures after impairments 413 128 On-balance sheet Refer to pages 52 and Risk-weighted to the warehouse book i. e. those securitisation principal 53 assets that have been orginated finance exposure.
and placed in special purpose Classi ed as other.
vehicles awaiting securitisation We are required to fully consolidate all assets acquired from Kensington.
However, only those assets to which we are at risk are re ected in this analysis with the balance re ected under no credit exposures Direct funding warehouse facility - 238 Risk-weighted i. e. where we are the funding provider to the assets UK - residual investments in other 29 29 On-balance sheet Risk-weighted or assets which have been securitised securitisation principal supervisory deductions by us unrated finance exposure.
We against primary and are required to fully secondary capital consolidate these assets.
However, only those assets to which we are at risk are re ected in this analysis with the balance re ected under no credit exposures 90 Annual report 2009
