Business Review Market Outlook and Economic Risk As a specialist distributor the primary driver for and purpose.
We remain focused on being In February 2009, a limited liability partnership our products is the repair and maintenance of competitive and are keeping close to our was formed called Construction Site Solutions existing facilities.
The element of our revenue customers and the market and remain made up of Speedy Hire, Lavendon, Hewden driven by improvement projects has a broad optimistic that the Group can continue and the BSS Group.
This consortium has been spread to both the nature of the projects and to outperform the market and pick up put together to maximise revenue generating their source of funding.
Major project work has new business.
opportunities from major infrastructure projects.
Work with the MOD, local The first location will be in east London.
authorities, health authorities and commercial projects are underpinned by programmes that The Group has a broad spread to its business run in many cases for a number of years.
with over 61,500 customers serviced from over Gavin Slark 400 branches, located the length and breadth Economic activity has slowed with the Group Chief Executive of the UK and Ireland.
Its exposure to any recession and we expect a further degree of 27 May 2009 individual customer is limited: the largest contraction in a number of market segments in customer represents around 4% of revenue 2009 and have planned on this basis.
We have and the top 10 customers by value account for experienced a tightening in the domestic R & M just 10% of Group revenue.
market in the second half and we anticipate that this will continue throughout 2009.
For the The relationship with our customers and our Industrial Division we anticipate there will be a competitive position is anchored primarily on slowdown during 2009.
Despite slowing service and availability of product and cost markets, new growth opportunities have been to serve.
identified and are being pursued with energy Principal Risks and Uncertainties RISK RISK RISK Economic Development Supplier Risk Acquisitions MITIGATING STRATEGY MITIGATING STRATEGY MITIGATING STRATEGY The Group has a number of major suppliers The Group has exposure to the risks of Acquisitions are formally assessed prior to the deterioration or downturn in the UK economy who work in partnership with BSS to deliver Company committing funds.
This involves a value to our customers.
The Commercial but continues to grow share of the R & M process that includes setting out the financial market.
The Group does not, however, have a teams within our Divisions monitor supplier criteria against which the acquisition is targeted performance and are aware of the financial direct exposure to consumer spending and a and judged, plus a due diligence process that high proportion of Group revenue is generated position of our suppliers.
This understanding covers commercial, financial and legal aspects forms part of the negotiations process in from non discretionary purchasing.
The Group uses setting commercial terms.
To ensure that external advisers to support the Company best value is achieved, alternative sourcing through the due diligence process.
Return RISK strategies are considered and pursued on capital employed represents a key Health and Safety where appropriate.
measure against which investment decisions are assessed.
MITIGATING STRATEGY RISK Ensure awareness and understanding of the risks within our trading and distribution RISK Technology and Systems operations.
The emphasis is on prevention: Defined Benefit Pension Scheme and Funding MITIGATING STRATEGY training all our employees, making people MITIGATING STRATEGY The Group is reliant on its trading and operating aware how to approach daily tasks, monitoring, recording incidents that do occur and learning systems.
Considerable investment has been The Group is required by law to maintain a made in upgrading the hardware, network and from our experiences.
minimum funding level in relation to its ongoing infrastructure that hosts the Groups systems.
obligation to provide current and future The systems platform that underpins the Group pensions for members of its pension schemes RISK is reliable and robust.
The systems are run from who are entitled to defined benefits.
If any Customer Risk the Groups head office and full disaster scheme of the Group is wound-up the Group recovery procedures are in place and have could become statutorily liable to make an MITIGATING STRATEGY been tested to ensure that they provide a immediate payment to the trustees to bring the The Group has a broad customer base that is reliable fall back position.
The Group will funding of these defined benefits to a level spread throughout the UK and Ireland.
The continue to invest in modernising its systems.
which is higher than this minimum.
Some of the largest single customer represents around 4% issues which could adversely affect the funding of Group sales and is covered by a three year of these defined benefits include poor RISK contract.
Credit insurance is in place to investment performance of pension fund minimise the exposure to bad debts, and credit Employees investments, which is substantially weighted vetting and control procedures are applied to towards equity markets, and longer life MITIGATING STRATEGY minimise risk.
The three Group Retention and development of our employees defined benefit schemes have been closed to is a key feature in ensuring the continued new members since 2002.
Assumptions in success of the Group.
Staff turnover of 17% respect of expected costs are set after is low relative to the industry and the Group consultation with qualified actuaries.
places emphasis on identifying the individuals developing in the Company that have the aptitude and ability to grow within the Group.
RISK A number of senior executives, within the Litigation Risk Group, commenced their employment with MITIGATING STRATEGY the Company serving on trade counters, and their understanding of our customers needs During the past year there has been no is of great benefit to the management of significant litigation against the Group and the the business.
Directors are not aware of any pending action.
14 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
