32 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Risk Management Operational risk management The principal risks facing the Group are The Group takes an holistic Errors & omissions discussed below approach to risk management These risks principally arise from nonMonitoring of risk is carried out internally by and the control environment compliance with operating procedures that the Risk & Compliance function and are in place across the Group, or alleged with responsibility and assurance gained through financial, negligence in provision of services advice.
accountability shared across operational, compliance and quality based The Groups legal and compliance auditing.
Significant failures are reported to all Group companies with departments establish operating procedures the executive directors to ensure that ultimate responsibility resting and compliance policy and regular audits remedial action is taken.
are carried out by both internal audit and with the Board.
The Board reviewed the Groups business risk.
The scope of work includes procedures for the management of risk ensuring compliance with operating The identification and during the year and is satisfied that procedures, training all staff in errors & mitigation of major business appropriate processes and procedures are omissions avoidance and operating in place in order to identify and manage risks is the responsibility of standards for the conduct of business which the significant risks faced by the Group.
is reported to the Board and Audit operational management and The overall responsibility for internal controls Committee.
Training programmes are in the Board.
within the Company and its subsidiary place to support operating procedures.
undertakings rests with the Board.
The Group maintains an insurance Each operating company Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness programme against errors & omissions maintains controls and of such controls forms part of the duties of liabilities.
Monitoring procedures appropriate to procedures include detailed reviews of Regulatory sanctions loss of trading its own business environment licenses operating company systems and controls while conforming to Group which are routinely undertaken by internal The Groups objectives here are to ensure compliance with all legal and regulatory audit.
The potential risk in this area The responsibility for internal controls within arises mainly from misinterpretation of These include procedures to associated undertakings rests essentially regulatory requirements and failure to meet with the senior management of those identify and then investigate all regulatory standards.
operations, the role of the Group being to types of material risk.
monitor its investments and to exert The Group's legal and compliance departments establish a framework to influence, normally through Board In accordance with the representation.
ensure compliance with all legal and Combined Code, a process regulatory requirements.
Operating The directors acknowledge that they are procedures include detailed standards staff has been established for responsible for the Groups systems of must adhere to.
Regular monitoring is identifying, evaluating and internal control and for reviewing their undertaken and audits completed by the effectiveness and this review has been managing risks faced by the business risk and internal audit departments.
This process has been Loss of IT environment During the year the Group's risk The loss of IT environment can arise from a in place for the full financial management framework, reporting structure number of causes including nonyear and up to the date the and responsibilities were reviewed.
performance of an IT supplier, malicious As a result, from 1st March 2010, the financial statements were act, cyber crime and staff not following Group has an independent Group Risk correct IT procedures.
The Group seeks to approved.
Management function to further enhance the mitigate these risks by putting in place Groups approach to risk management and appropriate limits of authority, systems Management profiles the ensure it remains in line with best practise.
controls, restricted access, security policies significant risks on an ongoing The principal operational and financial risks and procedures and monitoring of IT basis.
Operational, financial facing the Group and controls are noted suppliers through detailed formal service below.
and strategic risks faced by the Group are reviewed for the effectiveness of risk management controls including loss prevention and recovery planning.
Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 33 Information security, breach of security The total capital of the Group at 31st December 2009 and 2008 was as follows: These risks arise from, inter alia, loss of records, breach of confidentiality or 'm 2009 2008 inadequate security measures being in Total cash 57.8 61.7 place.
These risks are mitigated through Borrowings 100.0 70.3 appropriate policies and procedures, limits Net debt 42.2 8.6 of authority and access.
Total equity 239.4 232.5 The Groups business risk and compliance Total capital 281.6 241.1 department, with the assistance of internal audit, undertake regular monitoring.
Loss of key staff The Group has in place financial risk Currency risk The Group seeks to mitigate this risk with management policies, which are approved The Groups major currency transaction succession planning processes, effective by the Board, and uses various financial exposure arises in our London market appraisal and development plans and instruments, including derivatives, to businesses which currently earn annual US robust contracts of employment for all key manage these risks.
dollar denominated revenue of staff.
approximately US$260 million which It is Group policy to not engage in represents 27% of Group revenue.
As a Strategic risks speculative activity or enter into transactions consequence, the Groups results are highly Strategic risks include, inter alia, failure of unrelated to underlying commercial sensitive to changes in the Sterling US business planning and inadequate exposures.
dollar exchange rate, each one cent integration of acquisitions.
The Groups centralised treasury department movement in our achieved rate, after The Group seeks to mitigate these risks with is subject to regular internal and external hedging, currently translating into a change effective due diligence, robust integration audit reviews.
of approximately 1.0 million in revenue planning and ensuring that acquisitions are and a corresponding impact on trading Capital risk management made in line with agreed strategy.
profit equal to approximately 65% of the The Group's objectives when managing revenue change.
Group policy is to adopt Financial risk management capital are to safeguard the ability to a prudent approach to the management of The nature of the Groups international continue, as a going concern, to provide these exposures by maintaining a rolling operations and debt profile expose it to a returns for shareholders and benefits for hedging programme.
In 2009, the Group variety of financial risks including the effects other stakeholders and to maintain an achieved an average rate after hedging of of changes in foreign currency exchange, efficient capital structure to ensure an US$1.72 compared with the average interest rates and counterparty credit risks.
In 2008, the There are clearly defined areas of In order to achieve these objectives, the Group achieved an average rate after responsibility and limits of authority within Group may adjust the amount of dividends hedging of US$1.81 compared to an the Group.
Annual budgets are approved paid to shareholders, return capital to average market rate of US$1.85.
by the Board following detailed reviews by shareholders, issue new shares or sell As at 1st March 2010, some 85% of management.
Group results are reviewed assets to reduce debt.
anticipated dollar revenues for 2010 are against budget and reported to the Board The Group classifies net debt and equity as hedged at an average rate of US$1.55.
capital and manages its balance sheet For 2011 some 75% of dollar revenues are Treasury policy is reviewed and approved through monthly management reviews, hedged at an average rate of US$1.51 by the Board.
The Finance Director is controls and financial reporting.
and 60% hedged for 2012 at an average responsible for monitoring treasury activity rate of US$1.55.
We have now also The Group has adequate, committed, credit and performance.
The Group has policies commenced our rolling hedging for 2013, facilities to ensure that it is well positioned in place to cover the key treasury activities with 25% hedged at an average rate of to meet the variances of the seasonal of investment of funds, counterparty risk, US$1.55.
capital requirements and to support the cash management, foreign exchange strategic growth of the businesses.
exposure management and interest rate risk management.
There are no restrictions on the use of these facilities in the normal course of business.
Major items of capital expenditure require Board approval.
The insurance broking operations within the Group operate in a number of jurisdictions The Board is also responsible for the overall where local regulation requires a minimum strategy of the Group, including level of capital to be maintained.
The total acquisitions and related due diligence regulatory capital to be held by the Group requirements.
is not considered significant in the context of the total available capital.
34 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Risk Management continued and, in respect of fiduciary funds, all The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the achieved average rate after hedging relevant regulatory guidelines.
Investment for US dollar revenue earned in the UK if the balance of current unhedged forecast and banking counterparties are subject to revenue was sold forward based off a range of spot rates: pre-approval at Board level.
The Groups approval criteria requires Potential achieved average rate financial institutions with a minimum longUSD sterling spot rate 2010 2011 2012 term rating of A.
All exposures to individual 1.70 1.57 1.55 1.61 counterparties are subject to a limit to 1.65 1.56 1.54 1.59 control concentrations of credit exposure 1.49 22nd March 2010 1.54 1.50 1.53 and default risk.
Counterparty limits, ratings, credit default spread rates and utilisation 1.45 1.53 1.49 1.51 levels are reviewed regularly and reported 1.40 1.53 1.48 1.48 to the Board and Audit Committee.
The respective credit quality of each class The table above illustrates the potential Interest rate risk of financial asset is included within the sensitivities of the achieved rate, taking into The Group has both interest bearing assets notes to these accounts.
account hedging, if the balance of forecast and interest bearing liabilities that give rise US dollar revenue was sold at various Commodity price risk to net exposures to changes in interest sterling US dollar rates.
rates, primarily in US dollars and sterling.
The Group does not have a material exposure to commodity price risk.
Where appropriate, the Group uses interest Given the sensitivity of the outcome, rate swaps and forward rate agreements to significant movements in the US dollar hedge future interest rate exposures, would have a meaningful impact on the increasing the proportion of fixed rate Groups results.
The objective of the interest.
Groups hedging policy is to mitigate the impact of such volatility but it cannot The Group's policy is to continue to adopt eliminate the long-term effect of a a prudent approach to the management of permanent movement in exchange rates.
net interest rate exposures arising from the Group's cash and borrowings.
Transactional currency exposures, other than the above US dollar revenue exposure in Each 0.5% movement in the average the UK, include the Euro and Australian achieved rate of return impacts interest dollar and are selectively hedged through income receivable by approximately 2.5 forward foreign currency transactions.
The Group does not hedge exposure to Counterparty credit risk currency movements that affect the The Group's gross exposure to credit risk at translation of the profits earned in foreign 31st December 2009 is 696 million: currencies, except to the extent that those being own cash, fiduciary funds, profits are expected to be distributed to the investments and deposits, derivative assets holding company.
The Group has and trade receivables.
The Group significant investments in overseas maintains a counterparty policy based on operations.
Movements in exchange rates published rating criteria to limit the between balance sheet dates may affect concentration of funds and the exposure the sterling value of the Groups with any one party.
Monetary limits are consolidated balance sheet.
assigned to each counterparty based on an agreed scale in relation to their credit The currency profile of the Groups rating.
borrowings is managed to mitigate exposure to translation exposures where The financial profiles of counterparties are practicable and cost effective.
kept under continual review with reference to published financial and credit data.
The Group manages its cash and investment balances in the form of deposits with investment grade banks, AAA money market funds and other secure short term money market instruments in accordance with this investment and counterparty policy, which is agreed by the Board of Directors,
