RISKS The management of the business and the execution the implementation of which is well advanced and is in of the Groups growth strategies are subject to a line to provide the business with the planned benets.
number of risks, the occurrence of any one of which There is a risk of over-reliance on key trading partners may adversely affect the management of the Group In a number of key product categories Burberry is reliant and the execution of growth strategies.
on a small number of suppliers.
During the year, the Group continued to strengthen its supply chain management The key business risks affecting the Group are set out team to enable the further evolution and development below.
The steps the Group takes to address these risks, of the manufacturing base and also to mitigate the risk where they are matters within its control, are also associated with over-reliance on a number of key product described.
Such steps will mitigate but not eliminate these suppliers.
Where suitable alternatives exist, the Group has risks.
Some of the risks relate to external factors which are reduced volumes with such suppliers and continues to beyond the Groups control.
The order of the risks is in no look for suitable additional alternatives where necessary.
way an indication of their relative importance, and each of the risks should be considered independently.
If more than The Group has a number of key customers whose one of the events contemplated by the risks set out below business represents a substantial portion of sales.
occurs, it is possible that the combined overall effect of The Group dedicates resources to these customers such events may be compounded.
and maintains close relationships with such customers to understand and respond to their needs.
Risks are formally reviewed by the Group Risk Committee, whose membership includes the Chief Executive officer, The Group closely manages its relationships with key suppliers and customers which includes monitoring Executive Vice President Chief Financial officer, Executive their financial and non-financial performance.
Vice President of Corporate Resources, Senior Vice President of Supply Chain, Senior Vice President A substantial proportion of the Groups revenue Commercial Affairs and General Counsel and Director and profits is reliant upon business in Japan and of Audit and Risk Assurance.
At the invitation of the key global licensees Committee, the Director of Intellectual Property, Head of A significant source of profit is derived from the royalties Corporate Responsibility, Head of Risk Management and received from licensees, specically the Groups licensees representatives from other assurance teams regularly in Japan, and the fragrance licensee InterParfums S. A. attend meetings.
The assessment of the Groups risks and Burberry relies upon licensees, among other things, to the processes in place for management and mitigation of maintain operational and financial control over their these risks are considered by the Audit Committee on a businesses.
Should these licensees fail to effectively regular basis.
Key business risks are also considered by manage their operations the Groups income from royalties the Audit Committee and are considered generally as part would decline.
Failure to manage these key relationships of the Groups strategic development and ongoing effectively could have a material impact on the sales, business review processes.
profitability and reputation of the Group.
The global economic downturn has affected To minimise the risks in Japan, Burberry has its own consumers purchases of discretionary luxury items ofces and operations in Tokyo and closely monitors which has adversely affected Burberrys sales in its relationships with licensees.
The Group regularly certain markets implements royalty reviews and audits of licensees, but cannot guarantee that they will reveal any non-compliance In common with all Burberrys competitors, the global with the terms of the relevant licence.
economic downturn has affected the level of consumer spending on discretionary luxury items.
During a recession, In key emerging markets, including China and the when disposable income is lower, a global downturn will Middle East, Burberry is largely dependent upon adversely affect Burberrys sales in certain markets.
third-party operators with the associated lack of direct control and transparency A significant proportion of the Groups sales are In key emerging markets, Burberry operates through generated by customers in particular Middle Eastern, third-party franchisees.
In particular, a third-party retail Russian, Japanese, Chinese and other Asian customers operation has been developed in China.
The Group largely who purchase products while travelling either overseas depends upon the expertise of these franchisees given its or domestically.
As a result, shifts in travel patterns or relative lack of experience in this region.
During the year, the a decline in travel volumes could materially affect Group has strengthened its resources internally, and where trading results.
appropriate has its own staff based within these operations During the year, the Group announced a global cost who work closely with franchisees to further develop efficiency programme to underpin future profitability, operational models to enable greater control and visibility.
45 RISKS During the year, the Group established a company in the customers, while attracting new customers to the brand.
Middle East with its longstanding franchisee to enable both The Group balances and plans all categories and brand parties to capitalise on further opportunities in certain parts icons through a strict product hierarchy.
To continue brand of the Middle East.
momentum, and to protect market share in apparel and non-apparel categories, the Group features outerwear Burberry could suffer if its supply chain is unable to and the Burberry Check icons as part of seasonal produce and deliver goods at a competitive price, marketing initiatives.
on time and to its specication Burberry continues to evolve its sourcing strategy, rening Burberrys operating results are subject to seasonal its selection of suppliers to maintain and enhance product uctuations and vary based on the weather quality whilst improving sourcing efficiency.
During the year, In recent years, the world has seen more unpredictable the Group announced a global cost efficiency programme global weather patterns.
Burberrys business, particularly which included the restructuring of its Spanish operations with respect to apparel, broadly operates on a seasonal and consolidation of its UK manufacturing operations: the basis Spring Summer and Autumn Winter and the Group implementation of these initiatives is well advanced.
These has experienced, and expects to continue to experience, initiatives may adversely affect relationships with existing substantial seasonal uctuations in sales and operating suppliers during the transition period.
In particular, results vary based on the weather failed to ship products on time, or quality is substandard, because of the large proportion of outerwear products this could result in the Group missing delivery dates to its Burberry offers and the effect of the weather on retail customers, potentially resulting in cancelled orders or price markets generally.
As a result of these uctuations, reductions.
Further, such a failure could affect wholesale comparisons of sales and operating results between different customers confidence which could adversely affect periods within a single financial year are not necessarily subsequent seasons sales.
The Group continues to meaningful.
In addition, these comparisons cannot be relied rationalise its distribution network to minimise unnecessary on as indicators of the Groups future performance.
costs and to improve delivery timeliness and accuracy.
The cumulative change and significant growth During the year, the Group established a global planning within the business places a significant pressure function to further improve inventory management on resources processes and effective product ow, facilitated by The combination of the continued development of the improved reporting and visibility provided by SAP.
Further Groups IT infrastructure, the development of the global opportunities exist to improve inventory management supply chain and the implementation of the global cost processes and these will help ensure that the Group efficiency programme combine to exert significant pressure continues to produce merchandise of the right quality, on the business.
Governance processes have been put in in accordance with its ethical policy and delivered place for each major programme to monitor and manage in accordance with its requirements.
the progress of these initiatives and these are supplemented by monthly operational meetings with senior The inability to anticipate and respond to changes management to review operational performance.
The in consumer demand and product category trends senior management team has been strengthened to further on a timely basis could adversely impact sales support these key initiatives and external consultants are The Groups business depends, in part, on the ability used to supplement internal skills where required.
to shape, stimulate and anticipate consumer demand by producing innovative, fashionable and functional products.
Burberry is dependent on the strength of its Categories are cyclical, so it is critical the Group builds trademarks and other intellectual property rights responsive product teams to exploit trending categories, Burberrys trademarks and other proprietary rights are launch new categories and balance core apparel and fundamentally important to the success and competitive non-apparel categories.
The Burberry Check and position of the business.
Unauthorised use of the outerwear are both an integral part of the brands success.
Burberry name, the Burberry Check and the Prorsum The Group has evolved its design calendar to enable horse logo as well as the distribution of counterfeit increased product refreshment and replenishment so as products damage the Burberry brand image and profits.
to be more responsive to fashion and consumer trends If a third-party registers one of the Groups trademarks, or and to respond more efficiently to changing circumstances similar trademarks, in a country where the Group does not and to reduce the risks associated with placing excessive currently trade, this would create a barrier to commencing capacity with key product suppliers.
trade under those marks in that country.
In addition, Burberry continues to protect its classic core market if a third-party publishes harmful material using our by adding innovation to further stimulate sales to current trademarks, Burberrys brand image could suffer.
46 The Group has a dedicated team operating internationally Burberry faces increasingly intense competition to register and protect its trademarks and other intellectual Competition in the luxury goods sector has intensied in property rights.
Where infringements are identied, the recent years and Burberry is faced with increasing Group resolves these through a mixture of criminal and competition in many of our product categories and civil legal action and negotiated settlement.
The Group competes with international luxury goods groups who control a number of luxury brands and Nevertheless, it is not possible to guarantee that the may have greater financial resources and bargaining power actions taken to establish and protect the Groups with suppliers, wholesale accounts and landlords.
If trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate Burberry is unable to compete successfully, operating to prevent imitation of Burberrys products by others.
results and growth may be adversely impacted.
Trademarks and intellectual property rights, while subject Burberry is exposed to foreign currency uctuations to international treaties, are largely driven by national law Burberry derives a significant percentage of its profits from and the protection of intellectual property rights varies from its Japanese licensing arrangements.
As a consequence, one jurisdiction to another.
The Group cannot therefore the Group is exposed to a significant risk associated with necessarily be as effective in all jurisdictions in addressing the Yen to Sterling exchange rate.
In many territories the Group is dependent upon the vigilance and responsiveness of law In addition, the Group is continuing to expand its enforcement bodies whose priorities may differ from the operations in the United States and Europe as part of its Groups.
They are also subject to budgetary constraints strategy to accelerate retail expansion in key underand prioritise their actions accordingly.
Whilst the Group penetrated markets.
As the Groups presence in the works closely with customs and other law enforcement United States and Europe increases, it is exposed to an bodies, ultimately the Group cannot direct their actions.
increased risk associated with the US Dollar to Sterling exchange rate and Euro to Sterling exchange rate.
Burberry may be unable to control its wholesale and licence distribution channels satisfactorily The Group manages a significant proportion of the foreign The Group relies upon the ability to control its distribution currency exposures by the use of forward exchange networks and licensees to ensure that products are sold contracts.
Currency uctuations affecting the Yen, Euro, in environments consistent with the Groups luxury image.
US Dollar and other currencies will nevertheless affect An action by any significant wholesale customer or results and profitability.
licensee, such as presenting Burberry products in a The Group relies upon its licensees, suppliers, manner inconsistent with our preferred positioning, franchisees, distributors and agents to comply with would be damaging to our brand image.
If, due to relevant legislation regulatory, legal or other constraints, the Group is in any The Group expects its licensees, suppliers, franchisees, way unable to control its wholesale distribution networks distributors and agents to comply with employment and and licensees, the Burberry brand image, and therefore other laws relating to their country of operation and to results and profitability, may be adversely affected.
operate to good ethical standards.
The Group, however, If Burberry loses key management or is unable to is unable to guarantee that this is the case, although it attract and retain the talent required for its business, is improving its processes to gain assurance that its its operating results could suffer licensees, suppliers, franchisees, distributors and agents Burberrys performance depends largely on its senior comply with its terms and conditions and relevant local managers and design teams.
The resignation of key legislation and good practice.
individuals and the inability to recruit people with the right Major incident experience and skills to facilitate future business growth A significant incident such as a natural catastrophe, global could adversely impact Burberrys results.
To mitigate pandemic or terrorist attack affecting one or more of these issues the Remuneration Committee regularly the Groups key locations could signicantly impact the benchmarks the Groups incentive schemes against the operation of our businesses.
In such circumstances, market and considers the framework in place to recruit, the uninterrupted operation of the business cannot be incentivise and retain key individuals.
In addition, there ensured, particularly in the short term.
Business continuity is an ongoing recruitment and succession planning plans are in place to mitigate but not eliminate the programme overseen by the Executive Vice President operational risks.
of Corporate Resources and Chief Executive officer to ensure that the Group strengthens and develops its senior management team by identifying, developing and nurturing high potential talent.
