56 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 AUDITED INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT and plans and which are appropriately remunerated, is a key driver of THE GROUPS APPROACH TO RISK shareholder return.
The Groups approach to risk is founded on robust corporate As part of its integration initiative, the Group has been rolling out governance practices and a risk management culture which guides the the methodology and financial control framework that was used by way all employees approach their work, the way they behave and the the heritage Lloyds TSB Group: this includes compliance with the decisions they make.
The board takes the lead by establishing the tone requirements of the US Sarbanes Oxley Act.
This project is due to at the top and approving professional standards and corporate values complete in time for reporting in February 2011. for itself, senior management and other colleagues.
The board ensures that senior management implements strategic policies and procedures Risk analysis and reporting capabilities support the identification of designed to promote professional behaviour and integrity.
The board opportunities as well as risks and it provides an aggregate view of the also ensures that senior management implements risk policies and overall risk portfolio.
Risk mitigation strategies clearly aligned with risk appetites that either limit, or where appropriate, prohibit activities, responsibilities and timescales are monitored at group and divisional level.
relationships, and situations that could diminish the quality of corporate Reflecting the importance the Group places on risk management, risk is governance.
All colleagues including the group chief executive are included as one of the five principal criteria within the Groups balanced assessed against a balanced scorecard that explicitly addresses their scorecard on which individual staff performance is judged.
executives have specified risk management objectives, and incentive This board level engagement, coupled with the direct involvement schemes take account of performance against these.
of senior management in group-wide risk issues at group executive Although the layout of the Risk Management section has been left committee level, ensures that issues are escalated on a timely basis largely unchanged from previous years, more quantitative and qualitative and appropriate remediation plans are put in place.
The interaction information has been provided for Credit and Liquidity.
of the executive and non-executive governance structures relies upon a culture of transparency and openness that is encouraged by senior management.
Key decisions are always taken by more than one person.
STATE AID The group business risk committee and the group asset and liability The Group is subject to European state aid obligations as a result of committee are chaired by the group chief executive and include all the aid it received from HM Treasury.
In November 2009 the College members of the group executive committee.
The aggregate group wide of Commissioners approved the Groups restructuring plan, which risk profile and portfolio appetite are discussed at these monthly is designed to address any competition distortions arising from the meetings.
The risk oversight committee, chaired by the deputy group benefits of state aid.
The Group agreed with HM Treasury in the deed chairman, comprises non-executive directors and oversees the Groups relating to its withdrawal from GAPS that it will comply with the terms risk exposures.
This  committee is supported of the European Commissions decision.
This has placed a number of by the chief risk officer, who is independent of the front line business requirements on the Group including the disposal of certain portions of units, is a full member of the group executive committee and reports its business over the course of the next four years, including in particular to the group chief executive.
The chief risk officer regularly informs the the disposal of some parts of its retail banking business.
This will require risk oversight committee of the aggregate risk profile and has direct the Group to work closely with EU and UK authorities to demonstrate that access to the deputy group chairman and the members of the risk it is complying with the terms of the European Commissions decision.
HM Treasury currently holds approximately 41.3 per cent of the Groups The Group has a conservative business model embodied by a risk culture ordinary share capital.
There is a risk that this shareholding could in founded on prudence and accountability, where everyone understands future be used to seek to exercise in uence over the affairs or strategic that they are accountable for the risks they take and that the needs of business plans of the Group, particularly if other Government priorities customers are paramount.
The focus has been and remains on building or HM Treasurys interests as a major shareholder in other financial and sustaining long-term relationships with customers, through good and institutions do not align with their interests purely as a shareholder in bad economic times.
The approach is supported by a through the cycle the Group.
approach to risk with strong central control and monitoring.
United Kingdom Financial Investments has been appointed manager of HM Treasurys shareholding and the framework document between RISK AS A STRATEGIC DIFFERENTIATOR UKFI and HM Treasury states that UKFI will manage the UK financial institutions in which HM Treasury holds an interest on a commercial The maintenance of a strong control framework remains a priority for basis and will not intervene in day-to-day management decisions of the the new Lloyds Banking Group and is the foundation for the delivery Investee Companies as fide ned therein.
This document also makes it of effective risk management.
The Group optimises performance by clear that such institutions will continue to be separate economic units allowing divisions and business units to operate within approved capital, with independent powers of decision and will continue to have their liquidity and risk parameters and within the Groups policy framework.
own independent boards and management teams, determining their The Groups approach to risk management ensures that business units own strategies and commercial policies including business plans and remain accountable for risk whilst realising individual strategies to meet budgets.
The combination of divisional and group risk management maintains effective independent oversight.
In addition, the Group has made a number of undertakings to HM Treasury associated with the state aid it has received, including The Group continues to enhance its capabilities by providing to the the provision of additional lending to certain mortgage and business board both qualitative and quantitative data including stress testing sectors, and other matters relating for instance to corporate governance analysis on risks associated with strategic objectives to facilitate and staff remuneration.
These commitments could limit the operational more informed and effective decision making.
The Groups ability exibility of the Group or lead HM Treasury to seek to in uence the to take risks which are well understood, consistent with its strategy strategy of the Group in other ways.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 57 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 AUDITED INFORMATION deficiencies across the Group and reviewing associated oversight RISK GOVERNANCE plans to ensure pre-emptive risk management action.
The committee The Group has rolled out the heritage Lloyds TSB approach to risk also seeks to ensure that adequate divisional engagement occurs appetite, policies, delegations and risk committee structure and has to develop, implement and maintain the Groups compliance and continued to embed these across all risk disciplines and into the operational risk management framework.
Having achieved alignment of all high level group principles The group credit risk committee, which is responsible for the and appetites on the date of acquisition, the Group has continued to development and effectiveness of the Groups credit risk management embed these at all levels.
framework, clear description of the Groups credit risk appetite, setting The risk governance structure is intended to strengthen risk evaluation of high level Group credit policy, and compliance with regulatory and management, whilst also positioning the Group to manage the credit requirements.
On behalf of the group business risk committee, changing regulatory environment in an efficient and effective manner.
the group credit risk committee monitors and reviews the Groups The risk governance structure for Lloyds Banking Group is shown in aggregate credit risk exposures and concentrations of risk.
The group model governance and approvals committee, which is responsible for setting the control framework and standards for BOARD AND COMMITTEES models across the Group, including establishing appropriate levels The board, assisted by its key risk committees risk oversight committee of delegated authority, the approval of models that are considered to and group audit committee, approves the Groups overall risk be material to the Group including credit risk rating systems, and the management framework.
The board also reviews the Groups aggregate principles underlying the Groups economic capital framework.
risk exposures and concentrations of risk to seek to ensure that these are consistent with the boards appetite for risk.
The role of the board, audit The group insurance risk committee, which is responsible for committee and risk oversight committee are shown in the corporate the development and effectiveness of the Groups insurance risk governance section on pages 100 to 104, and further key risk oversight management framework, clear articulation of the Groups insurance roles are described below.
risk appetite, setting of high level insurance risk policy, and ensuring compliance with regulatory insurance requirements.
On behalf of the In particular, the risk oversight committee, which comprises group business risk committee, the group insurance risk committee non-executive directors, oversees the development, implementation monitors and reviews the Groups aggregate insurance risk exposures and maintenance of the groups overall risk management framework and and provides proactive and robust challenge around insurance risk and its risk appetite, strategy, principles and policies, to ensure they are in business activities giving rise to insurance risk.
line with emerging regulatory, corporate governance and industry best During the year, the Group has created divisional financial control practice.
The risk oversight committee regularly reviews the Groups risk committees to provide governance over financial statements.
The exposures across the primary risk drivers and the detailed risk types.
meetings provide review and challenge as to the veracity of the The group executive committee assisted by the group business risk results, press release and supporting analyst information addressing committee and the group asset and liability committee, supports the the processes that have been followed in drawing them up.
Items of group chief executive in ensuring the effectiveness of the Groups risk focus are key assumptions and areas of subjectivity in the results and management framework and the clear articulation of the Groups risk ensuring proper remediation of control issues that impact internal policies, whilst also reviewing the Groups aggregate risk exposures and controls over financial reporting, the Groups auditors also report concentrations of risk.
The GECs duties are described in greater detail findings from their audit work.
The group risk directors and divisional risk officers meet on a regular The group asset and liability committee is responsible for the strategic basis under the chairmanship of the chief risk officer to review and management of the Groups assets and liabilities and the profit and loss challenge the risk profile of the Group and seek to ensure that mitigating implications of balance sheet management actions.
It is also responsible actions are appropriate.
Aggregate risk reports are reviewed by this for the risk management framework for market risk, liquidity risk, capital group before submission to group business risk committees and then to risk and earnings volatility.
Group asset and liability committee is risk oversight committee.
supported by the senior asset and liability committee this senior level Group executive directors have primary responsibility for measuring, committee, which is responsible for the review of documentation relating monitoring and controlling risks within their areas of accountability to the management of assets and liabilities in the Groups balance sheet and are required to establish control frameworks for their businesses and the escalation of issues of group level significance to group asset that are consistent with the Groups high level policies and within the and liability committee.
parameters set by the board, group executive committee and group The group business risk committee reviews and recommends the risk.
Compliance with policies and parameters is overseen by the risk Groups risk appetite and risk management framework, high-level oversight committee, the group business risk committee, the group group policies and the allocation of risk appetite.
Group business risk asset and liability committee, group risk and the divisional risk officers.
committee periodically reviews risk exposures and risk reward returns and monitors the development, implementation and effectiveness of RISK MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT the Groups risk governance framework.
Within the scope of its work the The chief risk officer, oversees and promotes the development committee also considers reputational risk and any issues which could and implementation of a consistent group-wide risk management have a materially adverse impact on the Group.
The chief risk officer, supported by the group risk directors and the divisional risk officers, provides objective challenge to the The group business risk committee is supported by the Groups senior management.
The group executive committee and the following committees: board receive regular briefings and guidance from the chief risk officer to The group compliance and operational risk committee, which is ensure awareness of the overarching risk management framework and a responsible for proactively identifying current and emerging significant clear understanding of their accountabilities for risk and internal control.
compliance and operational risks or accumulation of risks and control 58 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION TABLE 1.1: RISK GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES The Lloyds Banking Group Board 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Business Management Group and Divisional Group Audit Oversight Functions Group The Nomination Chief Executive and Governance Group Executive Committee Committee Group Audit Remuneration Committee Committee Group Asset Group Business and Liability Risk Oversight Risk Committee Committee Committee Senior Asset Group Group Model Divisional Group Credit Group Insurance and Compliance and Governance Financial Control Risk Committee Risk Committee Liability Operational Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Group Group Executive Group Chief Risk Director of Group Group Group Executive Executive Director Executive Group Audit Human Officer Operations Finance Director Director Wealth and Director Resources Director Director Retail Wholesale International Insurance Director Divisional Divisional Divisional Divisional Divisional Divisional Divisional Group Risk Risk Officer Risk Officer Risk Officer Risk Officer Risk Officer Risk Officer Risk Officer Directors BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk Reporting line Governance Business Functional reporting line from BU risk officer or function to divisional risk of a ficers Oversight Committees functions Functional reporting line to support the committees Group risk directors who report directly to the chief risk officer, are RISK MANAGEMENT IN THE BUSINESS allocated responsibility for certain specific risk types and are responsible Line management are directly accountable for the management of for ensuring the adequacy of the framework for their risk types as well as risks arising in their individual businesses.
A key objective is to ensure the oversight of the risk profile across the Group.
Divisional risk of cers that business decisions strike an appropriate balance between risk and have dual reporting lines to their own divisional executive and also to the reward, consistent with the Groups risk appetite.
chief risk of cer and are responsible for the risk pro le within their own All business units, divisions and group functions complete a control self divisions.
This matrix approach enables the group executive committee assessment annually see page 104, reviewing the effectiveness of their members to ful l their risk management accountabilities.
internal controls and putting in place a programme of enhancements Divisional risk officers provide oversight of risk management activity where appropriate.
Managing directors of each business and each group for all risks within each of the Groups divisions.
Reporting directly to executive committee member certify the accuracy of their assessment.
the group executive directors responsible for the divisions and to the Risk management in the business forms part of a tiered risk management chief risk officer, their day-to-day contact with business management, model, as shown above, with the divisional risk officers and group risk business operations and risk initiatives seeks to provide an effective risk providing oversight and challenge, as described above, and the chief risk oversight mechanism.
officer and group committees establishing the group-wide perspective.
The director of group audit provides independent assurance to the audit This approach seeks to provide the Group with an effective mechanism committee and the board that risks within the Group are recognised, for developing and embedding risk policies and risk management monitored and managed within acceptable parameters.
Group audit is strategies which are aligned with the risks faced by its businesses.
It fully independent of group risk, seeking to ensure objective challenge to also seeks to facilitate effective communication on these matters across the effectiveness of the risk governance framework.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 59 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 AUDITED INFORMATION TABLE 1.2: RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The Lloyds Banking Group business strategy and objectives Policy framework and accountabilities Risk Control Risk and Control Risk Independent Risk Monitoring Activities Assessment Measurement Reviews Identification Reporting Action plans and tracking People Systems and tools RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The risk principles are executed through the policy framework The Groups risk management principles and risk management and accountabilities.
These principles are supported by the policy framework cover the full spectrum of risks that a group, which levels below: encompasses both banking and insurance businesses, would encounter.
Principles high level principles for the six primary risk drivers The Group uses an enterprise-wide risk management framework for High level group policy policy statements for each of the main risk the identification, assessment, measurement and management of types aligned to the risk drivers risk.
It seeks to maximise value for shareholders over time by aligning Detailed group policy detailed policy that applies across the Group risk management with the corporate strategy, assessing the impact of emerging risks from legislation, new technologies or the market, and Divisional policy local policy that specifically applies to a division developing risk tolerances and mitigating strategies.
The framework Business unit policy local policy that specifically applies to a seeks to: strengthen the Groups ability to identify and assess risks, aggregate group-wide risks and define the group risk appetite, develop business unit solutions for reducing or transferring risk, and where appropriate, Divisional and business unit policy is only produced by exception and is exploit risks to gain competitive advantage, thereby seeking to increase not necessary unless there is a specific area for which a particular division shareholder value.
The principal elements of the risk management or business unit requires a greater level of detail than is appropriate for framework are shown in table 1.2.
The framework above comprises 11 group level policy.
The governance arrangements for development of, interdependent activities which map to the components of the internal and compliance with, group, divisional and business unit policy and control integrated framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring the associated accountabilities are clearly outlined to all colleagues.
Organisations of the Treadway Commission.
Colleagues are expected to be aware of policies and procedures which apply to them and their work and to observe the relevant policies The framework is dynamic and allows for proportionate adjustment and procedures.
Line management in each business area has primary of policies and controls where business strategy and risk appetite is responsibility for ensuring that group policies and the relevant local amended in response to changes in market conditions.
policies and procedures are known and observed by all colleagues within The Lloyds Banking Group business strategy and objective is used that area.
to determine the Groups high level risk principles and risk appetite Group and divisional risk functions have responsibility for overseeing measures and metrics for the primary risk drivers see table 1.3.
The effective implementation of policy.
Group audit provides independent risk appetite is proposed by the group chief executive and reviewed by assurance to the board about the effectiveness of the Groups control various governance bodies including the group executive committee framework and adherence to policy.
Policies are reviewed annually to and the risk oversight committee.
Responsibility for the approval of risk ensure they remain fit for purpose.
appetite rests with the board.
The approved high level appetite and limits are delegated to individual group executive committee members Execution of the Groups risk management framework is dependent by the group chief executive.
upon a clear and consistent risk identi cation using a common language to fide ne risks and to categorise them see table 1.3 below.
The more detailed description of the risk principles and distribution of the risk appetite measures amongst the divisions and businesses are Proportionate control activities are in place to design mitigating determined by the group chief executive, in consultation with the group controls, to transfer risk where appropriate and seeks to ensure business risk committee and the group asset and liability committee.
executives are content with the residual level of risk accepted.
60 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION Risk and control assessments are undertaken to assess the that of performance against relevant limits or policies, is in place to effectiveness of current mitigations and whether risks taken are provide a level of detail appropriate to the exposures concerned and consistent with the Groups risk appetite this includes the annual control regular information is provided to group risk for review and aggregate self-assessment exercise.
Any significant issues identified in the monitoring process are appropriately reported, and an escalation process is in place to report The impact of risks and issues including financial, reputational and significant losses to appropriate levels of management.
Regular reports regulatory capital are determined through effective risk measurement are prepared by group risk on risk exposures and material issues to the including modelling, stress testing and scenario analysis.
group asset and liability committee, group business risk committee, The outcomes of independent reviews including internal and external group executive committee, risk oversight committee and the board.
audit and regulatory reviews are integrated into risk management At group level, a consolidated risk report is produced which is reviewed activities and action plans.
and debated by the group business risk committee, group executive Risk reporting is standardised through the use of standard definitions to committee, audit committee, risk oversight committee and the enable risk aggregation.
Divisions monitor their risk levels against their board to ensure that they are satisfied with the overall risk profile, risk risk appetite, seeking to ensure effective mitigating action is being taken accountabilities and mitigating actions.
The consolidated risk report where appropriate.
Divisional risk reports are reviewed by each divisional provides a regular assessment of the aggregate residual risk for the executive committee to ensure that respective senior management are primary risk drivers, comparing the assessment with the previous quarter satisfied with the overall risk profile, risk accountabilities and progress and providing a forecast for the next 12 months.
on any necessary action plans and tracking.
Reporting, including PRINCIPAL RISKS At present the most significant risks faced by the Group, which are derived from the primary risk drivers detailed in table 1.3 below, include: Risk: Definition Features Credit: The risk of reductions in Arising in the Retail, Wholesale and Wealth and International divisions, re ecting the risks inherent in the earnings and or value, through Groups lending activities and in the Insurance division in respect of investment of own funds.
Over the last two financial loss, as a result of the years the deteriorating economic outlook, both in the UK and overseas, brought about by the banking crisis failure of the party with whom the has impacted the financial services industry resulting in further high pro le losses and writedowns.
The Group Group has contracted to meet is impacted by the economic downturn and a further worsening of the business environment could adversely its obligations both on and off impact earnings.
This poses a major risk to the Group and its lending to: Retail customers including those in Wealth and International, where reducing affordability and or asset values arising from a combination of house price falls, continuing high, or increasing levels of unemployment, consumer over-indebtedness, and rising interest rates impacts both secured and unsecured retail exposures.
Wholesale customers including those in Wealth and International : where companies are facing increasingly difficult business conditions, resulting in corporate default levels rising and leading to increases in corporate impairment.
The Group has high levels of exposure in both the UK and internationally, including Ireland, USA, Australia and Spain.
There are particular concentrations to: financial institutions, commercial real estate, and joint ventures, with high leverage and exposures through capital structure.
The Group follows a through the economic cycle, relationship based, business model with risk management processes, appetites and experienced staff in place.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 61 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 AUDITED INFORMATION Risk: Definition Features Legal and regulatory: The risk of The industry is currently subject to a wide range of international and UK consultations on proposals to change regulatory action leading to fine the regulatory requirements.
For example the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has issued proposals and or public censure and or with respect to capital and liquidity requirements for banks Strengthening the resilience of the banking sector successful legal action being taken and International framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring and draft proposals against the Group as a result of have also been issued for new capital requirements for insurers Solvency II.
In the UK we have seen the Turner failure to meet one or more legal review and more recently, proposals have been issued for governance, recovery and resolution Living Wills and or regulatory requirements arrangements and also, potentially conduct of business requirements, which could have significant implications either in the UK or overseas.
for past business as well as future product offerings for customers.
There is a high level of uncertainty both as to the financial outcome in terms of specific requirements and the speed of implementation in the UK and internationally.
The Group is currently assessing the impacts of these regulatory proposals, and will participate in the consultation and calibration processes to be undertaken by the various regulatory bodies during 2010.
The Group currently meets and exceeds its regulatory capital requirements and expects to continue to do so.
However, the FSA could impose more stringent capital and liquidity requirements, and or introduce new ratios and or change the manner in which it applies existing requirements to recapitalised banks, including those within the Group.
Any one or combination of these events could result in the Group being forced to raise further capital or to divest assets.
The Group has made good preparations for the FSAs new liquidity regime ILAS and is ready to meet the reporting implications later in the year.
Lloyds Banking Groups policy is to maintain high levels of compliance with regulatory requirements and it will organise its business to maintain this level of compliance as the requirements become clearer, being mindful of maintaining an appropriate balance between risk and reward.
Liquidity and funding: Liquidity Arising in the banking business of the Group and impacting the Retail, Wholesale and Wealth and International risk is defined as the risk that divisions reflecting the risk that the Group is unable to attract and retain either retail, wholesale or corporate the Group has insufficient deposits or issue debt securities.
Like all major banks, the Group is dependent on confidence in the short and financial resources to meet its longer term wholesale funding markets: should the Group, due to exceptional circumstances, be unable to commitments as they fall due, continue to source sustainable funding and provide liquidity when necessary, it could impact its ability to fund or can only secure them at its financial obligations.
The key dependencies for successfully funding the Groups balance sheet include the continued functioning of Funding risk is defined as the risk the money and capital markets at their current levels: successful right sizing of the Groups balance sheet: the that the Group does not have continuation of HM Treasury facilities in accordance with the terms agreed: limited further deterioration in the sufficiently stable and diverse UKs and the Groups credit rating and no significant or sudden withdrawal of deposits resulting in increased sources of funding or the funding reliance on money markets or UK Government support schemes.
A return to the extreme market conditions of structure is inefficient.
2008 would place a strain on the Groups ability to meet its financial commitments.
Liquidity risk is managed within a board approved framework using a range of metrics to monitor the Groups profile against its stated appetite and potential market conditions.
62 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION Risk: Definition Features Customer treatment: The risk Customer treatment and how the Group manages its customer relationships affects all aspects of of regulatory censure and or Lloyds Banking Groups operations and is closely aligned with achievement of Lloyds Banking Groups strategic a reduction in earnings value, aim to create deep long lasting relationships with its customers.
There is currently a high level of scrutiny through financial or reputational regarding the treatment of customers by financial institutions from the press, politicians and regulatory bodies.
loss, from inappropriate or poor The Of ce of Fair Tradings OFT investigation and legal test case in respect of unarranged overdraft charges customer treatment.
on personal current accounts concluded in 2009, for further details see note 52 Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The OFT is however continuing to discuss its concerns in relation to the personal current account market with the banks, consumer groups and other organisations under the auspices of its Market Study into personal current accounts.
In October 2009, the OFT published voluntary initiatives agreed with the industry and consumer groups to improve transparency of the costs and bene ts of personal current accounts and improvements to the switching process.
The OFT aims to report on progress in respect of further changes it believes are required to make the market work in the best interest of bank customers by the end of March 2010.
The Group regularly reviews its product range to ensure that it meets regulatory requirements and is competitive in the market place.
Treating Customers Fairly remains the key principle underpinning the FSAs consumer protection objective.
An additional challenge for Lloyds Banking Group is ensuring the fair treatment of customers during integration of the two heritage businesses.
As a result the customer relationship management risks posed by integration are carefully considered through the integration governance process in place.
If Lloyds Banking Group is unable to demonstrate the fair treatment of its customers there is the risk of increased complaints from customers, the potential for regulatory action which could include reviews of past business and or the payment of fines and compensation and adverse media coverage leading to reputational damage in the marketplace.
The Group has policies, procedures and governance arrangements in place to facilitate the fair treatment of customers.
People: The risk of reduction in The delivery of Lloyds Banking Groups objectives is underpinned by the ability to attract, retain and develop earnings and or value, through the best talent in the industry.
The challenges to the people agenda have never been greater with increased financial or reputational loss, regulatory and public interest in remuneration practices, the effects of the Government shareholding and the from failure to retain, train, impacts of integration.
Lloyds Banking Group welcomes the regulation of remuneration provided there is reward, recruit and incentivise an international consensus and will comply with the FSA Code.
The Group has managed the initial stages of appropriately skilled staff, integration, working to establish control by defining and implementing the new organisational structures and inappropriate staff behaviour continues to manage the relationship with colleagues during this period of change.
The Group has policies, or industrial action.
procedures and governance arrangements in place to ensure the effective management of people risk as the Group integrates and grows its business.
The Group has published proposals to harmonise employee terms and conditions across the Group and is consulting with the various representative unions.
The Group actively manages its relationships with unions, but is aware of the danger of industrial action, business disruption and reputational impact arising from union behaviour and communications.
People risk is closely monitored as a key risk indicator, as well as being subject to oversight by the board.
Integration: The risk that The integration of the two legacy organisations presents one of the largest integration challenges that has Lloyds Banking Group fails to been seen in the UK financial services industry.
There is a risk that the Group may fail to realise the business realise the business growth growth opportunities, revenue benefits, cost synergies, operational efficiencies and other benefits anticipated opportunities, revenue benefits, from the acquisition of HBOS plc by Lloyds TSB Group plc, or may incur unanticipated costs and losses cost synergies, operational associated as a result.
As a consequence, the Group results may suffer as a result of operational, financial efficiencies and other benefits management and other integration risks.
The risk of failure to deliver synergy benefits or to meet publicly anticipated from, or incurs stated targets could potentially result in a loss of shareholder or market confidence with negative perceptions unanticipated costs and losses of the Groups integration strategy.
As the Group goes through the integration process there is a danger of associated with, the acquisition losing key staff potentially impacting upon integration plans.
The Group has created an integration executive board, chaired by the group operations director, to oversee the integration process.
The Group is now one year into the integration programme and has a fully developed and functioning governance framework to manage these risks, with clear understanding of the dependencies and phased deliverables through to 2012.
The programme is ahead of plan.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 63 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 AUDITED INFORMATION TABLE 1.3: RISK DRIVERS Business Credit Market Insurance Operational Financial Primary Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Soundness risk drivers Legal and regulatory Capital Mortality Customer treatment Interest rate Liquidity Longevity People and funding Strategy setting Foreign Integration Morbidity Retail exchange Financial and Business Detailed prudential Persistency Wholesale Execution of process risk Equity regulatory risk types strategy Property reporting Financial Credit spread crime risk Expenses Disclosure Security risk Unemployment Tax Change Governance RISK DRIVERS MEASUREMENT The Groups risk language is designed to capture the Groups primary An annual business planning process is conducted at group, divisional risk drivers.
A description of each primary risk driver, including and business unit level which includes a quantitative and qualitative definition, appetite, control and exposures, is included below.
These assessment of the risks that could impact the Groups plans.
Within the are further sub divided into 29 more granular risk types to enable more planning round, the Group conducts both scenario analysis and stress detailed review and facilitate appropriate reporting and monitoring, as tests to assess risks to future earning streams.
Stress testing and scenario set out in table 1.3. analysis are fully embedded in the Groups risk management practice.
The Group assesses a wide array of scenarios including economic Through the Groups risk management processes, these risks are recessions, regulatory action and scenarios specific to the operations of assessed on an ongoing basis and seek to ensure optimisation of risk each part of the business.
and reward and that, where required, appropriate mitigation is in place.
Both quantitative and qualitative factors are considered in assessing the MITIGATION Groups current and potential future risks.
As part of the annual business planning process, the Group develops a set of management actions to prevent or mitigate the impact on earnings in the event that business risks materialise.
Additionally, BUSINESS RISK business risk monitoring, through regular reports and oversight, results in corrective actions to plans and reductions in exposures where necessary.
DEFINITION Business risk is defined as the risk that the Groups earnings are adversely Revenue and capital investment decisions require additional formal impacted by a sub optimal business strategy or the sub optimal assessment and approval.
Formal risk assessment is conducted as part implementation of the strategy.
In assessing business risk, consideration of the financial approval process.
Significant mergers and acquisitions by is given to internal and external factors.
business units require specific approval by the board.
In addition to the standard due diligence conducted during a merger or acquisition, group RISK APPETITE risk conducts, where appropriate, an independent risk assessment of the Business risk appetite is encapsulated in the Groups budget and target company.
medium-term plan, which are sanctioned by the board on an annual basis.
Divisions and business units plans are aligned to the Groups MONITORING overall business risk appetite.
The Groups strategy is reviewed and approved by the board.
Reputational risk is covered at a number of levels throughout the EXPOSURES organisation, which includes the group executive committee and The Groups portfolio of businesses exposes it to a number of internal the group business risk committee.
Regular reports are provided and external factors: to the group executive committee and the board on the progress of the Groups key strategies and plans.
Group risk conducts oversight internal factors: resource capability and availability, customer to seek to ensure that business plans remain consistent with the treatment, service level agreements, products and funding and the risk Groups strategy.
appetite of other risk categories: and external factors: economic, technological, political, social and ethical, APPROACH environmental, legal and regulatory, market expectations, reputation The Group has adapted the heritage Lloyds TSB business risk approach and competitive behaviour.
which includes stress testing the medium term plan to changes in economic assumptions.
The output of this stress testing is used to determine investment decisions.
64 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION MEASUREMENT CREDIT RISK In measuring the credit risk of loans and advances to customers and to banks at a counterparty level, the Group reflects three components: DEFINITION i the probability of default by the client or counterparty on its The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or contractual obligations: ii current exposures to the counterparty reputational loss, as a result of the failure of the party with whom and their likely future development, from which the Group derives the Group has contracted to meet its obligations both on and off the exposure at default: and iii the likely loss ratio on the defaulted balance sheet.
obligations the loss given default.
RISK APPETITE The Group assesses the probability of default of individual counterparties Credit risk appetite is set by the board and is described and reported using internal rating models tailored to the various categories of through a suite of metrics derived from a combination of accounting counterparty.
In its principal retail portfolios and a growing number of and credit portfolio performance measures which in turn use the various wholesale lending portfolios, exposure at default and loss given default credit risk rating systems as inputs.
These metrics are supported by models are also in use.
They have been developed internally and use a comprehensive suite of policies, sector caps, product and country statistical analysis, combined, where appropriate, with external data limits to manage concentration risk and exposures within the Groups and subject matter expert judgement.
Each rating model is subject to approved risk appetite.
a rigorous validation process, undertaken by independent risk teams, which includes benchmarking to externally available data, where This statement of the Groups overall appetite for credit risk is reviewed possible.
All material rating models are authorised by the group model and approved annually by the board.
With the support of the group governance committee.
credit risk committee and group business risk committee, the group chief executive allocates this risk appetite across the Group.
Individual Each probability of default model segments counterparties into members of the group executive committee ensure that credit risk a number of rating grades, each representing a defined range of appetite is further delegated to an appropriate level within their areas default probabilities.
Exposures migrate between classifications if of responsibility.
the assessment of the obligor probability of default changes.
Each rating system is required to map to a master scale, which supports the EXPOSURES consolidation of credit risk information across portfolios through the The principal sources of credit risk within the Group arise from adoption of a common rating scale.
Given the differing risk profiles and loans and advances to retail customers, financial institutions and credit rating considerations, the underlying risk reporting has been split corporate clients.
The credit risk exposures of the Group are set into two distinct master scales, a retail master scale and a wholesale out in note 54 to the financial statements.
Credit risk exposures are master scale.
categorised as retail arising in the Retail and Wealth and International Note 54 to the financial statements provides an analysis of the portfolio Divisions and wholesale arising in the Wholesale and Wealth and and page 68 relates to the divisional analysis that is set out on pages 69 International Divisions.
In terms of loans and advances, credit risk arises both from amounts The rating systems described above assess probability of default, lent and commitments to extend credit to a customer as required.
exposure at default and loss given default, in order to derive an These commitments can take the form of loans and overdrafts, or expected loss.
In contrast, impairment allowances are recognised for credit instruments such as guarantees and standby, documentary and financial reporting purposes only for losses that have been incurred at commercial letters of credit.
With respect to commitments to extend the balance sheet date based on objective evidence of impairment see credit, the Group is potentially exposed to loss in an amount equal to note 2 H to the consolidated financial statements on page 138.
Due the total unused commitments.
However, the likely amount of loss is to the different methodologies applied, the amount of incurred credit less than the total unused commitments, as most retail commitments to losses provided for in the financial statements differs from the amount extend credit can be cancelled and the credit worthiness of customers determined from the expected loss models that are used for internal is monitored frequently.
In addition, most wholesale commitments to operational management and banking regulation purposes.
extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit standards, which are regularly monitored.
MITIGATION Credit risk can also arise from debt securities, private equity investments, The Group uses a range of approaches to mitigate credit risk.
derivatives and foreign exchange activities.
Note 18 to the financial statements shows the total notional principal amount of interest Internal control rate, exchange rate, credit derivative and equity and other contracts Credit principles and policy: group risk sets out the Group credit outstanding at 31 December 2009.
The notional principal amount does principles and policy according to which credit risk is managed, not, however, represent the Groups credit risk exposure, which is limited which in turn is the basis for divisional and business unit credit policy.
to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive value to the Principles and policy are reviewed regularly and any changes are Group.
Such amounts are reflected in note 54 on page 231. subject to a review and approval process.
Divisional and business unit policy includes lending guidelines, which define the responsibilities of Credit risk exposures in the insurance businesses arise primarily from lending officers and provide a disciplined and focused benchmark for holding investments and from exposure to reinsurers.
proportion of the investments are held in unit linked and with profit funds where the shareholder risk is limited, subject to any guarantees given.
Counterparty limits: Limits are set against all types of exposure in a counterparty name, in accordance with an agreed methodology for each exposure type.
This includes credit risk exposure on individual derivative transactions, which incorporates potential future exposures OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 65 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 AUDITED INFORMATION from market movements.
Aggregate facility levels by counterparty are Risk assurance and oversight: Divisional and group level oversight set and limit breaches are subject to escalation procedures.
teams monitor credit performance trends, review and challenge exceptions to planned outcomes and test the adequacy of credit risk Credit scoring: In its principal retail portfolios, the Group uses infrastructure and governance processes throughout the Group.
This statistically-based decisioning techniques primarily credit scoring.
includes tracking portfolio performance against an agreed set of key Divisional risk departments review scorecard effectiveness and approve risk indicators.
Risk assurance teams are engaged where appropriate to changes, with material changes being subject to group risk approval.
conduct further credit reviews if a need for closer scrutiny is identified.
Individual credit assessment and sanction: Credit risk in wholesale portfolios is subject to individual credit assessments, which consider Collateral the strengths and weaknesses of individual transactions and the The principal collateral types for loans and advances are: balance of risk and reward.
Exposure to individual counterparties, groups of counterparties or customer risk segments is controlled mortgages over residential and commercial real estate: through a tiered hierarchy of delegated sanctioning authorities.
charges over business assets such as premises, inventory and Approval requirements for each decision are based on the transaction accounts receivable: amount, the customers aggregate facilities, credit risk ratings and the charges over financial instruments such as debt securities and nature and term of the risk.
The Groups credit risk appetite criteria for equities: and counterparty underwriting are the same as that for assets intended to guarantees received from third parties.
be held over the period to maturity.
The Group maintains guidelines on the acceptability of specific classes Controls over rating systems: The Group has established an of collateral.
independent team in group risk that sets common minimum standards, designed to challenge the discriminatory powers of systems, accuracy Collateral held as security for financial assets other than loans and of calibration and seeks to ensure consistency over time and across advances is determined by the nature of the instrument.
Internal rating systems are developed and implemented by treasury and other eligible bills are generally unsecured, with the independent risk functions either in the business units or divisions with exception of asset-backed securities and similar instruments, which the business unit managing directors having ownership of the systems.
are secured by portfolios of financial assets.
Collateral is generally not Line management takes responsibility for ensuring the validation of held against loans and advances to financial institutions, except where the respective internal rating systems, supported and challenged by securities are held as part of reverse repurchase or securities borrowing specialist functions in their respective division.
transactions or where a collateral agreement has been entered into Cross-border and cross-currency exposures: Country limits are under a master netting agreement.
Collateral or other security is also authorised by the Country Limits Panel taking into account economic not usually obtained for credit risk exposures on derivative instruments, and political factors.
except where the Group requires margin deposits from counterparties.
Concentration risk: Credit risk management includes portfolio It is the Groups policy that collateral should always be realistically valued controls on certain industries, sectors and product lines to reflect risk by an appropriately qualified source, independent of the customer, appetite.
Credit policy is aligned to the Groups risk appetite and at the time of borrowing.
Collateral is reviewed on a regular basis in restricts exposure to certain high risk and more vulnerable sectors accordance with business unit credit policy, which will vary according and segments.
Note 20 to the accounts provides an analysis of loans to the type of lending and collateral involved.
In order to minimise and advances to customers by industry for wholesale customers and the credit loss, the Group may seek additional collateral from the product for retail customers.
Exposures are monitored to prevent counterparty as soon as impairment indicators are identified for the excessive concentration of risk.
These concentration risk controls are relevant individual loans and advances.
not necessarily in the form of a maximum limit on lending but may The Group considers risk concentrations by collateral providers and instead require new business in concentrated sectors to fulfil additional collateral type, as appropriate, with a view to ensuring that any potential hurdle requirements.
The Groups large exposures are reported in undue concentrations of risk are identified and suitably managed by accordance with regulatory reporting requirements.
changes to strategy, policy and or business plans.
Stress testing and scenario analysis: The credit portfolio is also subjected to stress-testing and scenario analysis, to simulate outcomes Master netting agreements and calculate their associated impact.
Events are modelled at a group Where it is efficient and likely to be effective generally with wide level, at divisional and business unit level and by rating model counterparties with which it undertakes a significant volume of and portfolio, for example, for a specific industry sector.
transactions, the Group enters into master netting agreements.
Specialist expertise: Credit quality is maintained by specialist units Although master netting agreements do not generally result in an offset providing, for example: intensive management and control: security of balance sheet assets and liabilities, as transactions are usually settled perfection, maintenance and retention: expertise in documentation for on a gross basis, they do reduce the credit risk to the extent that, if an lending and associated products: sector-specific expertise: and legal event of default occurs, all amounts with the counterparty are terminated services applicable to the particular market place and product range and settled on a net basis.
The Groups overall exposure to credit risk on offered by the business.
derivative instruments subject to master netting agreements can change substantially within a short period since it is affected by each transaction Daily settlement limits: Settlement risk arises in any situation where a subject to the agreement.
payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the expectation of a corresponding receipt in cash, securities or equities.
Daily settlement limits are established for each counterparty to cover the aggregate of all settlement risk arising from the Groups market transactions on any single day.
66 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION Other credit risk transfers To support corporate customers that encounter difficulties during The Group also undertakes asset sales, securitisations and credit derivative the current economic downturn the Group has continued to expand based transactions as a means of mitigating or reducing credit risk, taking its dedicated Business Support Unit BSU model.
Teams have been into account the nature of assets and the prevailing market conditions.
strengthened in both Wholesale and Wealth and International to deal with the rise in work loads experienced during the year as the MONITORING recessionary conditions took hold both in the UK and overseas.
In Portfolio monitoring and reporting: In conjunction with group risk, Wholesale three teams have been created to cover Corporate Real businesses and divisions identify and define portfolios of credit and Estate, Corporate and Commercial, and Specialist Finance customers related risk exposures and the key benchmarks, behaviours and experiencing difficulties.
In Wealth and International teams have characteristics by which those portfolios are managed in terms of been created in Ireland and Australia.
Under this model, relationship credit risk exposure.
This entails the production and analysis of regular management passes early and fully to BSU: because the BSU specialists portfolio monitoring reports for review by senior management.
Group receive the customers at an earlier stage in the process they have more risk in turn produces an aggregated review of credit risk throughout time to develop effective solutions.
The strategy is to work alongside the Group, including reports on significant credit exposures, which are management teams and key stakeholders to turnaround businesses in presented to both the group credit risk committee and to the group distress and re-establish these as viable entities.
Where a turnaround business risk committee.
is not feasible, exposure is minimised through a combination of appropriate asset sales, restructuring and work out strategies.
The performance of all rating models is comprehensively monitored on a regular basis, to seek to ensure that models continue to provide To support UK Retail customers who are encountering financial optimum risk differentiation capability, the generated ratings remain difficulties the Group has launched a cross-channel support programme.
as accurate and robust as possible and the models assign appropriate Lloyds TSB branches and telephony units have at least one trained risk estimates to grades pools.
All models are monitored against a Financial Health Specialist providing customers with budgeting and series of agreed key performance indicators.
In the event that money management advice.
In the Groups Halifax and Bank of Scotland monthly monitoring identifies material exceptions or deviations businesses, customers have a dedicated telephone support line with from expected outcomes, these will be escalated to the group trained specialists able to guide them through any financial difficulties.
Support is also available for all customers online, and via a specially developed support brochure.
For those customers requiring more APPROACH intensive help, assistance is provided through dedicated support units The Group has largely adopted the heritage Lloyds TSB credit risk where tailored repayment programmes can be agreed.
Customers are approach, including governance structure, sanctioning processes and actively supported and referred to free money advice agencies where risk appetite controls and framework.
Integrated, prudent through the they have multiple credit facilities that require restructuring.
cycle credit policies and procedures have mostly all been established Within Collections and Recoveries the sharing of best practice and and implemented across the Group, supported by robust early warning alignment of policies across the Group, has helped to drive more indicators and triggers.
effective customer outcomes and achieve operational efficiencies.
The Following a prioritised appointment process an integrated credit risk Group has strengthened resources in Collections and Recoveries to help management structure is in place throughout the Group, using the most customers in distress by offering advice and access to a wider range of experienced and skilled resources from both heritages.
Substantial work options such as short-term repayment plans or the government backed has been undertaken to analyse portfolios and where necessary the Homeowners Mortgage Support and Mortgage Rescue schemes.
A Group has taken actions to manage effectively its exposure through the core element of our relationship management approach is to contact economic downturn.
These actions have included revised credit criteria customers showing signs of financial distress, discussing with them their for key products and a withdrawal from those business sectors that are circumstances and offering solutions to prevent their accounts falling outside of the Groups risk appetite.
This year, nearly a quarter of a million customers have been contacted who were not yet in arrears.
The Group has formed a group level Credit Risk Assurance function with experienced credit professionals from both heritages.
Together The Group follows a through the economic cycle, relationship based, with Divisional Risk senior management, this team has carried out an business model with robust risk management processes, appropriate independent risk-based review of the high risk wholesale and retail appetites and experienced staff in place.
These robust policies and books.
Nearly 150 billion of high risk wholesale assets, primarily HBOS procedures define chosen target market and risk acceptance criteria.
commercial real estate and corporate exposures, have been reviewed These have been, and will continue to be, tightened and fine tuned by the team.
This has required a detailed file by file review of the as appropriate and include the use of early warning indicators to original credit application, subsequent management papers and an help anticipate future areas of concern and allow us to take early and understanding of the supporting collateral.
In addition, portfolio level proactive mitigating actions.
analysis and investigation, together with statistically robust sampling of accounts, have been carried out for over 300 billion of retail assets.
These comprehensive reviews have greatly enhanced the Groups knowledge and understanding of the legacy portfolios and have enabled the Group to assess and manage these exposures confidently and effectively.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 67 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 TABLE 1.4: IMPAIRMENTS ON GROUP LOANS AND ADVANCES CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT IN 2009 As at 31 December 2009 ImpairTo understand the trends in each portfolio the comparatives for 2008 Impaired ment have been provided for the combined businesses which are unaudited.
loans as provisions a % of Impairas a % of Consequently pages 67 to 75 covering credit risk management in 2009 Loans and Impaired closing ment impaired are unaudited.
1 advances loans advances provisions loans m m % m % Retail 378,005 11,015 2.9 3,806 34.6 KEY HIGHLIGHTS Wholesale 210,934 35,114 16.6 17,179 48.9 As a result of the significant impairments taken in the first half of 2009 Wealth and following in-depth reviews of the Groups high risk portfolios and a International 69,402 12,704 18.3 5,003 39.4 more favourable macroeconomic environment in the second half of Hedging and 2009, the Groups total impairment charge levels have reduced in the other items 1,663 second half of the year.
660,004 58,833 8.9 25,988 44.2 Whilst the path of the economic recovery remains uncertain, the Group continues to expect the 2010 charge to be significantly lower than the Impairment provisions 25,988 total 2009 charge.
Fair value adjustments 7,047 The Group has largely adopted the heritage Lloyds TSBs credit risk 626,969 approach and is implementing prudent, through the cycle credit As at 31 December 2008 policies and procedures across the Group.
Retail 386,007 10,106 2.6 4,842 47.9 The Group has expanded its BSU model and strengthened the Wholesale 247,138 18,470 7.5 8,263 44.7 resources within Collections and Recoveries to support the more timely engagement with customers experiencing difficulties and drive more Wealth and effective customer outcomes.
International 67,481 2,728 4.0 1,047 38.4 Hedging and The Groups total impairment losses increased by 9,108 million to other items 4,284 23,988 million in 2009.
Impairment losses for loans and advances as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers, 704,910 31,304 4.4 14,152 45.2 increased to 3.25 per cent from 1.81 per cent in 2008.
This was principally Impairment provisions 14,152 due to the material deterioration in UK economic conditions in 2009.
Fair value adjustments 13,512 The rapid economic and asset value declines, together with aggressive 677,246 lending polices in the heritage HBOS business, caused wholesale impairment losses to increase substantially during 2009.
This was 1 Impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
especially so in the HBOS Corporate Real Estate portfolio which has To understand how the above portfolios are classified for internal been particularly vulnerable to the deterioration in asset values as well as monitoring purposes the following table sets out the Groups loans and the HBOS UK and US Corporate portfolios.
advances according to asset quality.
Please also refer to page 232 of the The Groups gross loans and advances to customers, before impairment financial statements.
provisions and fair value adjustments, decreased by 44.9 billion to The definitions used below of good quality, satisfactory quality, lower 660.0 billion.
The reduction in gross advances was primarily driven quality and below standard, but not impaired applying to retail by the alignment of heritage risk appetites in Retail, a reduction in and wholesale customers are not the same, reflecting the different wholesale lending in Corporate Markets and a reduction in Wealth and characteristics of these exposures and the way they are managed International before allowing for a transfer of 7 billion of advances from internally.
Wholesale lending has predominantly been classified using the Wholesale division to Wealth and International during the year in internal probability of default rating models mapped so that they are respect of the European loan portfolio.
comparable to external credit ratings.
Good quality lending comprises Total impaired loans increased by 27,529 million to 58,833 million at the lower assessed default probabilities, with other classifications 31 December 2009 and as a percentage of closing loans and advances reflecting progressively higher default risk.
Classifications of retail to customers increased to 8.9 per cent from 4.4 per cent at 31 December lending have predominantly been determined using internal rating 2008 driven by the deterioration in the economic environment, and models and for Retail mortgages also incorporate expected recovery in particular by declines in commercial real estate values and higher levels and, where applicable expert judgement.
The Groups coverage ratio impairment provisions as includes the lower assessed default probabilities and all loans with low a percentage of impaired loans has decreased to 44.2 per cent from expected losses in the event of default, with other categories reflecting 45.2 per cent in 2008.
Whilst the ratio has increased within Wholesale progressively higher risks and lower expected recoveries.
and Wealth and International, the overall fall is due to the write-off of unsecured loans and advances within Retail that had been provided against in earlier years, as reported at the half-year.
The Group believes it has adequate coverage.
The Group remains cautious about a number of downside risks, including a renewed macro-economic deterioration in the UK and Ireland.
However, based on its latest economic assumptions, the Group expects a significantly lower impairment charge in 2010 compared to 2009.
68 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued TABLE 1.5: ASSET QUALITY BY DIVISION As at 31 December 2009 Wealth and Fair value Retail Wholesale International hedging and Division Division Division other items Total Asset type Asset quality m m m m m Retail mortgages Good 318,559 15,825 1,098 335,482 Satisfactory 7,014 2,600 9,614 Lower 504 242 746 Below standard, but not impaired 876 574 1,450 Past due, but not impaired 11,726 861 12,587 Impaired 7,196 756 7,952 367,831 Retail other Good 16,179 12,681 2,777 894 30,743 Satisfactory 7,666 3,838 1,150 12,654 Lower 955 436 89 1,480 Below standard, but not impaired 2,591 740 221 3,552 Past due, but not impaired 663 709 501 1,873 Impaired 3,819 2,384 148 6,351 56,653 Wholesale Good 13 52,292 8,230 1,275 61,810 Satisfactory 124 47,729 11,711 188 59,752 Lower 120 40,416 5,450 45,986 Below standard, but not impaired 13,605 4,719 18,324 Past due, but not impaired 3,374 1,748 4 5,118 Impaired 32,730 11,800 44,530 235,520 378,005 210,934 69,402 1,663 660,004 As at 31 December 2008 Wealth and Fair value Retail Wholesale International hedging and Division Division Division other items Total Asset type Asset quality m m m m m Retail mortgages Good 328,560 19,672 82 348,314 Satisfactory 1,896 1,331 3,227 Lower 125 246 371 Below standard, but not impaired 109 447 556 Past due, but not impaired 14,171 839 15,010 Impaired 4,756 356 5,112 372,590 Retail other Good 17,035 15,395 3,258 539 36,227 Satisfactory 8,050 3,601 2,568 14,219 Lower 891 482 79 1,452 Below standard, but not impaired 2,624 877 114 3,615 Past due, but not impaired 754 947 203 1,904 Impaired 5,350 1,900 18 7,268 64,685 Wholesale Good 15 72,003 6,438 3,555 82,011 Satisfactory 102 81,594 16,806 108 98,610 Lower 1,568 38,508 6,865 46,941 Below standard, but not impaired 10,170 3,681 13,851 Past due, but not impaired 1 5,091 2,206 7,298 Impaired 16,570 2,354 18,924 267,635 386,007 247,138 67,481 4,284 704,910 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 69 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 LEVERAGE FINANCE LENDING RETAIL Leverage finance exposures arise in Wholesale and in Wealth and International.
The Group defines leverage as that business booked KEY HIGHLIGHTS within Lloyds Acquisition Finance in Wholesale and the equivalent Impairment losses have increased by 14 per cent to 4,227 million business in Lloyds International.
The portfolio is well spread by sector particularly reflecting the impact of increases in unemployment with the majority of the exposures being UK focused.
during 2009 on the unsecured charge, partly offset by a lower secured impairment charge as the housing market stabilised.
TABLE 1.6: LEVERAGE FINANCE LENDING New lending quality has remained strong, with lower arrears evident.
As at 31 December 2009 Drawn Average loan-to-value on new mortgage lending has reduced to bn 59.3 per cent, compared to 63.1 per cent during 2008.
Wholesale division 14.4 Management actions taken, coupled with more favourable recent Wealth and International division 3.2 economic trends, have reduced overall volumes of customers entering 1 Collections in the second half of the year.
17.6 As at 31 December 2008 The path of economic recovery in the UK remains uncertain: however, based on current trends, the Group expects impairment losses in 2010 Wholesale division 14.9 to be lower than 2009.
Wealth and International division 3.3 Retail impairment losses increased by 532 million to 4,227 million in 18.2 2009, driven primarily by deteriorating economic conditions in the latter 1 part of 2008 and the first half of 2009.
Impairment losses were lower Total includes 4.8 billion relating to unsuccessful syndications and 0.3 billion in syndication.
in the second half of 2009, compared to the first half, driven by lower secured impairment losses.
The improvement in secured impairment losses reflected increases in UK house prices, slowing unemployment growth, better affordability with lower interest rates and management actions.
Impairment losses for loans and advances, as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers, increased to 1.11 per cent from 0.97 per cent in 2008.
Retails gross loans and advances have reduced by 8 billion to 378 billion, as a result of management actions to align heritage risk appetites with a focus on lending to lower risk segments, such as unsecured franchise customers, and the write-off of 2.1 billion of unsecured loans and advances which had been provided against in earlier years, as reported at the half-year.
Total impaired loans increased by 909 million to 11,015 million at 31 December 2009 and as a percentage of closing advances to customers, increased to 2.9 per cent from 2.6 per cent at 31 December 2008.
This is lower than the 11,394 million reported at 30 June 2009, as there was a gradual improvement in the second half of the year in secured loans, with unsecured lending remaining stable.
The Group is cautious about a number of potential downside risks, including lagged effects of high unemployment, a potential for recent house price increases to reverse, the challenges to affordability if interest rates were to rise ahead of real wage growth and other potential pressures on future affordability.
However, based on its latest economic assumptions, the Groups expectation is for recent trends to continue and for Retail to report a lower impairment charge in 2010 compared to 2009.
70 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued TABLE 1.7: IMPAIRMENTS ON RETAIL LOANS AND ADVANCES SECURED The UK mortgage market for both house purchase and re-mortgaging As at 31 December 2009 ImpairImpaired ment slowed considerably in 2009, with gross market lending falling to loans as provisions 143 billion from 254 billion in 2008.
The re-mortgage market is the a % of Impairas a % of main contributor to this fall, as reductions in base rate have brought the Loans and Impaired closing ment impaired 1 advances loans advances provisions loans interest rate on standard variable mortgages to below new business m m % m % rates across the industry, thereby reducing the incentive for borrowers Secured 345,900 7,196 2.1 1,693 23.5 to re-mortgage.
2 Unsecured 32,105 3,819 11.9 2,113 55.3 Gross new mortgage lending by Retail in 2009 was 35 billion compared to 78 billion for 2008, representing a market share of gross new lending Total Retail 378,005 11,015 2.9 3,806 34.6 of 24 per cent compared with 31 per cent in 2008.
Overall, mortgage Impairment provisions 3,806 balances outstanding at 31 December 2009 were 345.9 billion, a Fair value adjustments 3,141 reduction of 3.7 billion in the year.
371,058 In March 2009, the Group committed to increasing its planned gross As at 31 December 2008 Impaired Impairment lending to homebuyers by 3 billion in the following 12 months.
The loans as provisions lending provided under this commitment continues to adhere to the a % of as a % of Groups risk appetite.
The Groups risk appetite is consistent with the Loans and Impaired closing Impairment impaired 1 advances loans advances provisions loans criteria that had proved to be a prudent and successful approach for m m % m % Lloyds TSB.
The main drivers of the reduction are internal activities risk and collections policies and better Total Retail 386,007 10,106 2.6 4,842 47.9 than anticipated external factors interest rates, house prices and Impairment provisions 4,842 unemployment.
The combination of these factors has resulted in Fair value adjustments 4,088 a reduction in impaired loans in the second half of the year.
As a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers, secured 377,077 impairment losses decreased to 0.23 per cent in 2009 from 0.38 per cent 1 Impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
2 The reduction in unsecured advances and impairment provisions reflects the write-off of Management actions taken have resulted in new lending quality 2.1 billion of unsecured loans and advances to customers which had been provided against in prior years.
improving to pre-recessionary levels, with fewer customers now going into arrears.
Specialist lending is now closed to new business and this The Retail divisions loans and advances to customers are analysed in the book is in run-off.
following table: Although impaired loans in the year increased to 7,196 million, TABLE 1.8: LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS Retail has seen a steady reduction in the second half of the year from 7,612 million at June 2009.
Impaired secured loans, as a percentage of As at 31 December 2009 2008 m m closing advances, increased to 2.1 per cent at 31 December 2009 from 1.4 per cent in 2008.
Secured: The percentage of mortgage cases greater than three months in arrears Mainstream 270,069 274,237 excluding possessions increased to 2.3 per cent at 31 December 2009 Buy to let 44,236 41,364 compared to 1.8 per cent at 31 December 2008.
Based on the most Specialist 31,595 34,045 recent published figures by the Council of Mortgage Lenders, the Group is performing marginally better than the industry average.
345,900 349,646 TABLE 1.9: MORTGAGES GREATER THAN THREE MONTHS IN Unsecured: ARREARS EXCLUDING POSSESSIONS Credit cards 12,301 13,802 As at 31 December Total mortgage Total mortgage Personal loans 16,940 18,102 1 Number of cases accounts Value of debt balances Bank accounts 2,629 2,788 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Cases Cases % % m m % % 1 Others, including joint ventures 235 1,669 Mainstream 57,837 46,543 2.1 1.5 6,407 4,796 2.4 1.7 32,105 36,361 Buy to let 7,557 6,950 1.9 2.0 1,159 1,053 2.6 2.5 378,005 386,007 Specialist 13,848 12,634 6.6 5.6 2,498 2,342 7.9 6.9 1 Following the Groups acquisition of the remaining shares in the joint venture with AA, unsecured 79,242 66,127 2.3 1.8 10,064 8,191 2.9 2.3 lending by that entity is now reported in Personal Loans and Credit Cards headings, previously these balances were included in Others.
1 Value of debt represents total book value of mortgages in arrears but not in possession.
Provisions held against secured assets appropriately reflect the risk of further losses from events that have already occurred.
This includes adequate allowance for losses yet to emerge on accounts currently OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 71 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 on repayment plans or benefiting from the very low interest rate In credit cards, Retails combined brands are market leaders in terms environment.
of new credit card issuance.
Credit card balances outstanding at 31 December 2009 were 12.3 billion 31 December 2008: 13.8 billion.
The possessions stock has fallen by 32 per cent in 2009, from 4,011 In addition, the Group was the leading UK debit card issuer in 2009. to 2,720 properties.
Currently, average proceeds from the sale of repossessed properties are in excess of average valuations assumed in The impairment charge for unsecured lending was 3,438 million in Retails provisioning models.
2009, an increase of 1,037 million on 2008 which reflects the higher unemployment levels seen in the year.
Consistent with the Groups The average loan-to-value ratio for new mortgages and further advances statements at the half-year, Retails impairment losses on unsecured written in 2009 was 59.3 per cent compared with 63.1 per cent in 2008. lending were higher in the second half of the year, largely driven by the The average indexed loan-to-value ratio on the mortgage portfolio was standardisation of the treatment for concessionary repayment plans: if 54.8 per cent compared with 54.9 per cent in 2008 and 13.0 per cent of this charge was excluded, impairment losses were stable.
the mortgage portfolio had an indexed loan-to-value ratio in excess of 100 per cent 44.8 billion, compared with 16.2 per cent 56.8 billion In the second half of 2009 there were signs of improved underlying in 2008. performance in all portfolios: management actions reduced the delinquency rates on new business.
If current trends continue, Retail TABLE 1.10: ACTUAL AND AVERAGE LTVS ACROSS THE believes impairment losses in 2010 will be lower than in 2009.
PRINCIPAL MORTGAGE PORTFOLIOS Total impaired unsecured loans were 3.8 billion 31 December 2008: 1 As at 31 December 2009 Mainstream Buy to let Specialist Total 5.4 billion and represented 11.9 per cent of closing advances %%%% compared to 14.7 per cent at 31 December 2008.
Provisions as Less than 60% 34.4 12.0 14.3 29.7 a percentage of impaired loans decreased to 55.3 per cent 31 December 2008: 64.3 per cent.
The reduction in both the level of 60% to 70% 11.9 11.3 9.7 11.6 impaired loans and the impairment provisions coverage reflected the 70% to 80% 15.2 20.2 17.0 16.0 write-off of 2.1 billion of unsecured loans which had been provided 80% to 90% 14.3 19.1 21.5 15.6 against in the prior years, as reported at the half-year.
90% to 100% 12.2 21.4 20.3 14.1 Personal loans: Impaired personal loans decreased to 10.5 per cent of Greater than 100% 12.0 16.0 17.2 13.0 closing advances 31 December 2008: 11.6 per cent and provisions, as a percentage of closing advances, decreased to 5.9 per cent 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 31 December 2008: 7.0 per cent.
Average loan to value: Credit cards: Impaired credit cards advances were 13.6 per cent of Stock of residential closing advances 31 December 2008: 20.2 per cent and provisions, mortgages 51.0 75.2 72.3 54.8 as a percentage of closing advances, decreased to 7.1 per cent New residential lending 58.3 65.6 73.7 59.3 31 December 2008: 13.6 per cent.
Impaired mortgages 71.1 91.5 85.6 76.5 Bank accounts: Impaired loans decreased to 13.6 per cent of As at 31 December 2008 Mainstream Buy to let Specialist Total closing advances 31 December 2008: 17.0 per cent and provisions, %%%% as a percentage of closing advances, decreased to 8.9 per cent Less than 60% 34.3 11.1 14.8 29.6 31 December 2008: 10.6 per cent.
Divisional Risk continue to undertake robust and Average loan to value: continuous oversight and challenge to the business.
Significant resources deployed into the Business Support Units focused Stock of residential on key asset classes.
mortgages 52.2 77.0 71.7 54.9 As a result of significant impairments taken in the first half of 2009, New residential lending 60.7 73.1 73.1 63.1 notably in HBOS Corporate Real Estate and HBOS UK and US Impaired mortgages 67.3 89.9 85.6 74.1 Corporate portfolios, the Group expects this to represent the peak 1 of total impairments given the Groups economic assumptions.
Specialist lending is now closed to new business and is in run-off.
However, the Group expects the volume of underlying impairments UNSECURED from traditional trading and manufacturing businesses to increase in Consumer Banking has aligned risk appetite across the business to 2010, as the full impact of economic conditions filters into business focus on lending to its existing customers.
Personal loan balances insolvencies and asset values.
This is a factor of a typical lag effect outstanding at 31 December 2009 were 16.9 billion 31 December 2008: as the economy passes through the recession.
However, the effects 18.1 billion, the reduction reflected lower demand, a tightening of of this negative trend should be significantly less than the benefit of lending criteria and the write-off of unsecured loans and advances which lower absolute impairments from the HBOS Corporate Real Estate and had been provided against in earlier years, as reported at the half-year.
HBOS UK and US Corporate portfolios.
72 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued Volume of individual cases passing into Business Support Units TABLE 1.11: IMPAIRMENTS ON WHOLESALE LOANS continued to rise in the second half of 2009.
AND ADVANCES The Group remains cautious about the extent of corporate recovery As at 31 December 2009 ImpairImpaired ment in 2010. loans as provisions a % of Impairas a % of Wholesale division impairment losses increased by 5,289 million to Loans and Impaired closing ment impaired 15,683 million in 2009.
Impairment losses for loans and advances as 1 advances loans advances provisions loans a percentage of average loans and advances to customers increased m m % m % to 5.92 per cent in 2009 from 3.32 per cent in 2008.
Higher levels Corporate Markets: of failures, notably in HBOS Corporate Real Estate and real estate Corporate 67,293 7,930 11.8 3,933 49.6 related transactions, and the HBOS UK and US Corporate portfolio, Commercial 26,551 2,597 9.8 972 37.4 drove a significant increase in impairments.
However, impairment losses reduced significantly in the second half of 2009, amounting Real Estate 55,490 18,016 32.5 8,791 48.8 to 5,945 million, compared with 9,738 million in the first half, a Specialist Finance 16,088 2,956 18.4 1,621 54.8 reduction of 3,793 million, or 39 per cent.
Wholesale Markets 31,286 1,646 5.3 631 38.3 Wholesales gross loans and advances to customers have decreased by Total Corporate 36.2 billion to 210.9 billion.
Since the date of acquisition, all business Markets 196,708 33,145 16.8 15,948 48.1 originated in Wholesale has been evaluated in accordance with the risk appetite and credit control criteria that had proved to be a prudent Treasury and Trading 1,394 and successful approach for Lloyds TSB.
Early assessment of HBOS Asset Finance 12,832 1,969 15.3 1,231 62.5 portfolios identified those areas where there was close alignment with Total Wholesale 210,934 35,114 16.6 17,179 48.9 the Lloyds TSB heritage, those which could continue to be supported Reverse repos 1,108 once the more restrictive appetite and policy were aligned and those where it was clear that there would be limited appetite to lend.
As Impairment provisions 17,179 agreed with the UK government, the Groups lending commitment is Fair value adjustments 3,055 also subject to, and considered in the light of, the Groups risk appetite Total loans and and credit control criteria.
advances 191,808 Total impaired loans increased by 16,644 million to 35,114 million at As at 31 December 2008 Impaired Impairment 31 December 2009.
Impaired loans as a percentage of closing advances loans as provisions was 16.6 per cent as at 31 December 2009 compared with 7.5 per cent a % of as a % of Loans and Impaired closing Impairment Impaired as at 31 December 2008, with impairment provisions as a percentage of 1 advances loans advances provisions loans impaired loans increasing to 48.9 per cent as at 31 December 2009 from m m % m % 44.7 per cent as at 31 December 2008.
Detailed reviews of vulnerable 2 Corporate Markets: portfolios have largely been completed and, where appropriate, Corporate 81,482 2,615 3.2 1,736 66.4 remedial risk mitigating actions are underway.
The HBOS impairment methodology has now been aligned with the Groups methodology, and Commercial 26,785 1,759 6.6 597 33.9 this is reflected in the impairment charge for the year and the first half in Real Estate 59,481 9,536 16.0 3,318 34.8 particular.
The position has stabilised during the second half with a lower Specialist Finance 26,816 2,049 7.6 1,271 62.0 rate of impairment compared with the first half.
Wholesale Markets 35,652 1,114 3.1 475 42.6 The Lloyds TSB approach to credit risk management, with a focus on Total Corporate ensuring its risk appetite and credit policies reflect a prudent through Markets 230,216 17,073 7.4 7,397 43.3 the cycle approach to lending, impairment assessment and review is being embedded across the enlarged Wholesale division and remains Treasury and Trading 2,775 a key focus in 2010.
Asset Finance 14,147 1,397 9.9 866 62.0 Total Wholesale 247,138 18,470 7.5 8,263 44.7 Reverse repos 3,230 Impairment provisions 8,263 Fair value adjustments 7,543 Total loans and advances 234,562 1 Impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
2 As part of the process of allocating assets to the new management structure, the legacy HBOS portfolios have been resegmented and the 2008 comparative numbers are presented on an organisational basis consistent with 2009.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 73 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 CORPORATE and applying conservative and prudent lending policies in relation to new The Corporate UK and US portfolios felt the impact of the adverse business.
Clearly the management of the distressed portfolio is key not economic environment in the first half of 2009 but this has stabilised only to mitigating loss but also for Lloyds Banking Group as a significant during the second half with a lower rate of impairments raised against player within the property sector to ensure that the strategies adopted do the portfolio and a slower rate of new cases being transferred into not adversely impact on a market that remains fragile.
The Groups BSU is Business Support Units.
A higher volume of impaired cases is expected making great progress in the achievement of these balanced objectives in 2010 as the lag from the UK recession bites.
This impact is expected with a substantial number of restructurings undertaken over the last six to be biased toward the mid size franchise, of which the HBOS heritage months.
portfolio is characterised by high levels of obligor concentration to On the property investment side there are signs of recovery in capital riskier counterparties many with a property related component, thereby values but this is most evident at the prime end of the commercial impacting the level of the impairment charge in 2009.
The key concern remains the potential for an increasing level of level of impairments taken in 2009 in the HBOS corporate business is not tenant defaults against a backdrop of already depressed capital values expected to be repeated.
and a continuing lack of liquidity in the market.
Sustainability of cash flow As part of its funding, liquidity and general hedging requirements has been key to the relative resilience seen in the investment market to Lloyds Banking Group maintains relationships with many major date but a significant rise in tenant defaults would impact adversely on financial institutions throughout the world.
Credit quality in general is debt service capability and could lead to increased impairments beyond improving in the sector, helped significantly by the support mechanisms those forecast, based on the Groups current economic assumptions.
established by Governments, Central Banks and regulators.
This is Wholesale has invested heavily in implementing the required reflected in the firmer trend in market prices now quoted for bank debt.
infrastructure to deal with the stress which has been experienced in the Some economies continue to experience difficulties, either through low portfolio to date and is satisfied that impairment levels are prudent, growth or high borrowing levels, and banking sectors in these countries with the impairment charge for the second half reducing from the peak remain under strain.
evidenced in the first half.
Refinancing risk is an emerging issue with The position in North America has stabilised with a lower rate of significant maturities due in the next few years.
Against the Groups impairments in the second half of 2009.
The Group retains some economic assumptions, 2010 is expected to continue to be difficult.
material single obligor concentrations on weaker credits.
Concentrations However the Group has made significant strides during 2009 in putting remain in gaming, residential real estate and to some poorer sub in place robust and prudent lending policies and processes with the prime non-bank financial institutions loan originators.
Although the expectation that, in tandem with a market which is evidencing signs of portfolio is appropriately impaired, a weakening in some of the Groups recovery, Wholesale will see an improving risk profile across the portfolio gaming exposures could well result in the need for further impairments together with continued reduction in impairments.
SPECIALIST FINANCE COMMERCIAL Specialised Finance comprises Acquisition Finance and Impairment has been marginally higher than originally expected this Corporate Equity.
year, reflecting the harsher economic conditions that the Groups Acquisition Finance The Acquisition Finance leveraged portfolio customers have experienced.
The Group continues to refine its risk has been impacted significantly by the economic environment, with management and forecasting tools to reflect the economic environment a relatively high proportion of deals being restructured, and higher and further increase control, monitoring and support of customers.
In impairment levels seen than in the same period in 2008.
The rate of new addition, the roll out of a combined Lloyds TSB and Bank of Scotland problem loans abated in the second half of 2009. credit policy and risk strategy will benefit the business going forward, and the Groups prudent through the cycle lending policies will ensure Corporate Equity The risk capital assets representing Equity Risk that asset quality remains appropriately robust.
including ordinary equity, preference shares and institutional stock portfolio comprises the Lloyds TSB heritage Lloyds Development Portfolio metrics and stress testing analysis suggest continued material Capital LDC business, a small Project Finance business, and the HBOS impairments through the short to medium term, as expected at heritage Integrated Finance Investments, Joint Ventures and Fund this stage of the economic cycle.
Over time, impairment losses as a Investments businesses.
All new private equity investment activity will in percentage of advances are expected to trend towards more normalised future be made in the name of LDC, which will continue taking equity levels reflective of the historic performance of the Lloyds TSB heritage stakes, primarily in privately owned UK businesses.
With the exception of portfolio.
However, in line with past experience, the impairment Project Finance the remaining Specialist Finance Risk Capital businesses improvement is expected to show some lag behind the upturn in are not considered as continuing businesses to Lloyds Banking Group the economy.
and as a result are being managed for value.
As a result, excluding LDC and Project Finance, there will be no new investments in the portfolios CORPORATE REAL ESTATE and they will reduce over time as existing investments are exited.
The Corporate Real Estate portfolio has endured a significant level of stress as a consequence of the unprecedented scale and pace of During the first half of 2009, as a result of significant market volatility, the deterioration in the property sector coupled with the previous aggressive value of the portfolio materially reduced.
In the second half of the year, lending appetite in the heritage HBOS business.
Whilst we remain the main share indices have evidenced an upward movement and this cautious, the current outlook for the property sector is now a little more has largely offset continued pressure on earnings across the investment positive with higher levels of equity being raised, yields stabilising and portfolio, together contributing to a relatively flat position across the negative rental growth abating.
However, a sustained recovery is not total portfolio.
While some positive signs are evident, value recovery predicted until 2011.
Against this backdrop, Corporate Real Estate is going forward continues to be treated with caution.
focusing its attention on improving the risk profile of the existing portfolio 74 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued WHOLESALE MARKETS WEALTH AND INTERNATIONAL Wholesale Markets encompasses the securitisation conduits Cancara, Grampian and Landale, a portfolio of Structured Credit KEY HIGHLIGHTS Investments and Structured Corporate Finance which covers shipping, Creation of credit risk teams and the establishment of Business rail, aviation, corporate asset finance and infrastructure finance.
Support Units in Ireland and Australia supported by divisional BSU Global shipping markets, especially the dry bulk and container sectors, sanctioning in the UK.
experienced considerable pressure during 2009, leading to higher Impairment charges considered to have peaked in Wealth and impairment levels: while the Group expects continued sector pressure in International in 2009 given the Groups economic assumptions 2010, it has forecast a lower rate of new problem cases.
although uncertainty remains over Ireland and the impact of the continued economic decline on Bank of Scotland Ireland impairment 2009 has seen a significant reduction in the size of the Treasury Assets levels.
portfolio, both in terms of notional exposure and Risk Weighted Assets.
In addition, the potential for volatility within the portfolio Tightening of Risk Appetite following divisional and Business Unit has been significantly reduced.
As financial market conditions have reviews and independent Group Credit Risk Assurance reviews of all improved, write-downs of investment securities have eased.
Although material heritage HBOS portfolios.
both Lloyds TSB and HBOS heritage portfolios contain US residential Wealth and Internationals impairment losses have increased by mortgage-backed securities, which are exposed to a greater risk 3,347 million to 4,078 million in 2009.
The result was primarily driven by of further impairment, it is believed that previous write-downs a severe deterioration in economic conditions in the Irish economy and and acquisition fair value adjustments for HBOS Treasury assets to a lesser extent the Australian economy.
Impairment losses for loans remain adequate to cover the losses the Group expects to incur on and advances as a percentage of average gross loans and advances these portfolios.
to customers increased to 6.04 per cent from 1.05 per cent in 2008.
Included within the total impairment charge was 2,949 million related TREASURY AND TRADING to Ireland, 849 million related to Australia with a further 129 million Treasury and Trading acts as the link between the wholesale markets and arising in Wholesale Europe.
The impairment charge for Wealth and the Groups balance sheet management activities and provides pricing International is expected to have peaked in 2009, although the Group and risk management solutions to both internal and external clients.
The continues to monitor economic conditions in the eurozone and Ireland majority of Treasury and Tradings funding and risk management activity in particular.
is transacted with investment grade counterparties and much of it is on a secured basis such as Repo.
Derivative transactions with wholesale Wealth and Internationals gross loans and advances to customers counterparties are typically collateralised under CSAs.
increased by 1.9 billion to 69.4 billion following the transfer of a 7 billion European loan portfolio from Wholesale division offset by ASSET FINANCE repayments in most portfolios.
The credit quality profile across the heritage Lloyds TSB Asset Finance Total impaired loans increased by 9,976 million to 12,704 million at non-retail portfolios has remained broadly stable over the last 31 December 2009.
As a percentage of gross loans and advances to 12 months.
In line with the wider economic difficulties and rise in customers impaired loans increased to 18.3 per cent from 4.0 per cent at corporate failures, there has been a rise in the number of cases requiring 31 December 2008.
This increase was driven by deteriorating economic Business Support management although the level of defaults is no conditions, particularly in Ireland, as well as the impact of the downturn greater than in 2008.
However, there has been an increased level of on property loans and advances, in both Ireland and Australia, and default in the heritage HBOS Asset Finance non-retail portfolios with the concentrations in other sectors most impacted by the downturn, such as need for higher impairment charges during 2009, particularly in the printing, media and transport.
daily flexi rental end of the Fleet Operator sector and marine sector.
The division has established Credit Risk Policies which have been rolled The Asset Finance retail portfolio has come under significant stress in out across all of the businesses with local policies being fully aligned.
2009 in line with the broader difficult economic conditions.
The rise in Reviews of risk appetite were undertaken throughout 2009 which have the impairments and expected loss has been driven by a combination reemphasised managements commitment to maximising value from of increased unemployment, falling house prices and fall in motor values existing lending portfolios, seeking to reduce sector concentrations although these have stabilised in 2009 following a large fall in 2008. and move to Trusted Advisor status thereby maximising income from Retail second lien secured lending has been impacted by a combination selected clients.
of stressed factors including the fall in house prices, since the loans were provided reducing the equity in the property, the restriction in the In order to manage impaired loans effectively, BSUs have been retail credit market limiting the ability to refinance and an increase in the established in Ireland and Australia with divisional oversight provided by number of defaults due to the stressed economy resulting in larger than the Business Support Unit Sanctioning area.
Reviews of Collections and anticipated increases in impairments.
Recoveries capability across the retail businesses have been undertaken to optimise processes and enhance capability.
For both the Asset Finance retail and non-retail portfolios the outlook for 2010 remains cautious although the Group expects impairment levels to reduce compared to 2009.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 75 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The tables below highlight the International credit exposure in Ireland TABLE 1.13: ANALYSIS OF GROSS LOANS AND ADVANCES and Australia which represent approximately 60 per cent of the BY ASSET CLASS divisions lending assets.
As at December 2009 37 per cent of customer As at 31 December 2009 Ireland Australia Other Total bn bn bn bn advances in Wealth and International division relate to personal lending, including mortgages.
Loans to individuals are by their nature Commercial Real Estate 11.7 6.3 3.6 21.6 well diversified amongst a wide range of borrowers.
Wholesale assets Corporate 9.1 6.1 6.8 22.0 comprise 63 per cent of assets with a good spread of risk outwith the Sub total 20.8 12.4 10.4 43.6 property sector.
Wealth and International are seeking to reduce property concentrations to rebalance the lending portfolio, with Commercial Real Mortgages 7.8 13.3 21.1 Estate lending currently comprising 31 per cent of the total portfolio.
Other retail 0.5 1.7 2.5 4.7 Sub total 8.3 1.7 15.8 25.8 TABLE 1.12: IMPAIRMENTS ON WEALTH AND INTERNATIONAL LOANS AND ADVANCES Total loans and advances 29.1 14.1 26.2 69.4 As at 31 December 2009 ImpairImpaired ment WEALTH loans as provisions a % of Impairas a % of Impairment losses within Wealth have increased to 71 million for 2009 Loans and Impaired closing ment impaired June 2009: 26 million primarily reflecting difficult economic conditions 1 advances loans advances provisions loans in Spain as well as the impact of the economic downturn on the m m % m % UK Private Banking and Expatriates businesses.
Wealth 9,523 281 3.0 100 35.6 International: IRELAND The total impairment charge for Ireland is 2,949 million of which Ireland 29,104 9,712 33.4 3,601 37.1 2,929 million relates to loans and advances and the remaining Australia 14,057 2,030 14.4 966 47.6 20 million is in respect of equity.
Impairment losses for loans and Other 16,718 681 4.1 336 49.3 advances in Ireland represent 9.9 per cent of average gross loans and 59,879 12,423 20.7 4,903 39.5 advances to customers, which has increased from 3.4 per cent at the half-year.
The most significant contributor to impairment losses in Ireland Wealth and is the Commercial Real Estate portfolios which make up 61 per cent International 69,402 12,704 18.3 5,003 39.4 of losses, representing 15.3 per cent of average Commercial Real Impairment provisions 5,003 Estate advances.
As a percentage of Commercial Real Estate assets Fair value adjustments 851 that have an impairment allowance, total provision coverage amounts to 47 per cent.
With limited new business being written and very low 63,548 levels of roll-off driven by a lack of liquidity in the commercial property As at 31 December 2008 Impaired Impairment market, overall exposures in local currency remain almost static.
The loans as provisions a % of as a % of severe economic downturn has significantly influenced performance with Loans and Impaired closing Impairment impaired commercial property prices falling approximately 55 per cent from their 1 advances loans advances provisions loans peak, house prices falling approximately 31 per cent from their peak and m m % % unemployment levels currently at 12.5 per cent.
Wealth 10,485 205 2.0 70 34.1 International: AUSTRALIA Impairment losses in Australia amount to 849 million, representing Ireland 31,359 1,775 5.7 682 38.4 6.2 per cent of average advances as compared with 3.1 per cent as Australia 13,055 685 5.2 256 37.4 at June 2009.
The Australian economy has fared better than many Other 12,582 63 0.5 39 61.9 others and did not formally enter recession.
However, high sector 56,996 2,523 4.4 977 38.7 concentrations in Property and in other sectors hardest hit by the economic downturn Printing, Transport and Media have resulted in Wealth and increased impairment losses in 2009. International 67,481 2,728 4.0 1,047 38.4 Impairment provisions 1,047 Fair value adjustment 1,881 64,553 1 Impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
76 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION Surplus assets are held primarily in four portfolios: a in the long term MARKET RISK funds of Scottish Widows plc, Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited and their subsidiaries: b in the shareholder funds of life DEFINITION assurance companies: c investment portfolios within the general The risk of reductions in earnings, value and or reserves, through insurance business and d within the main fund of Heidelberger financial or reputational loss, arising from unexpected changes in Lebensversicherung AG.
financial prices, including interest rates, inflation rates, exchange rates, credit spreads and prices for bonds, commodities, equities, property The Groups defined benefit staff pension schemes are exposed to and other instruments.
It arises in all areas of the Groups activities and is significant risks from the constituent parts of their assets and from the managed by a variety of different techniques.
present value of their liabilities, primarily equity and real interest rate risk.
For further information on pension scheme assets and liabilities please RISK APPETITE refer to note 41.
Market risk appetite is defined with regard to the quantum and composition of market risk that exists currently in the Group and the MEASUREMENT direction in which the Group wishes to manage this.
The primary market risk measure used within the Group is the Value at Risk VaR methodology, which incorporates the volatility of relevant This statement of the Groups overall appetite for market risk is reviewed market prices and the correlation of their movements.
This is used for and approved annually by the board.
With the support of the group determining the Groups overall market risk appetite and for the high asset and liability committee, the group chief executive allocates this risk level allocation of risk appetite across the Group.
Individual members of the group executive committee ensure that market risk appetite is further delegated to an Although an important measure of risk, VaR has limitations as a result appropriate level within their areas of responsibility.
of its use of historical data, assumed distribution, holding periods and frequency of calculation.
In addition, the use of confidence levels does EXPOSURES not convey any information about potential loss when the confidence The Groups banking activities expose it to the risk of adverse level is exceeded.
Where VaR models are less well suited to the nature movements in interest rates, credit spreads, exchange rates and equity of positions, the Group recognises these limitations and supplements prices, with little or no exposure to commodity risk.
The volatility of its use with a variety of other techniques.
These reflect the nature of market values can be affected by both the transparency of prices and the business activity, and include interest rate repricing gaps, open the amount of liquidity in the market for the relevant asset.
exchange positions and sensitivity analysis.
Stress testing and scenario Most of the Groups trading activity is undertaken to meet the analysis are also used in certain portfolios and at group level, to simulate requirements of wholesale and retail customers for foreign exchange extreme conditions to supplement these core measures.
However, some interest rate, exchange rate and credit spread positions are taken using derivatives and other Banking trading assets and other treasury positions on-balance sheet instruments with the objective of earning a profit from Based on the commonly used 95 per cent confidence level, assuming favourable movements in market rates.
positions are held overnight and using observation periods of the preceding 300 business days, the VaR for the years ended 31 December Market risk in the Groups retail portfolios and in the Groups capital 2009 and 2008 based on the Groups global trading positions was as and funding activities arises from the different repricing characteristics detailed in table 1.14. of the Groups non-trading assets and liabilities.
Interest rate risk arises predominantly from the mismatch between interest rate insensitive The risk of loss measured by the VaR model is the potential loss in liabilities and interest rate sensitive assets.
earnings given the confidence level and assumptions noted above.
The total and average trading VaR does not assume any diversification Foreign currency risk also arises from the Groups investment in its benefit across the four risk types, with the exception of the 2008 overseas operations.
VaR is a statistical measure and the trading book The Groups insurance activities also expose it to market risk, exposures for the two independently managed heritage banks arose encompassing interest rate, exchange rate, property, credit spreads and from different management strategies and were measured against equity risk: differing risk appetites.
Separate disclosures have therefore been made for each heritage trading book for 2008 as this is considered to With Profit Funds are managed with the aim of generating rates of be a more informative approach.
The 2008 HBOS comparatives have return consistent with policyholders expectations and this involves the also been converted from 99 per cent 1-day to 95 per cent 1-day VaR mismatch of assets and liabilities.
The maximum and minimum VaR reported for each risk Unit-linked liabilities are matched with the same assets that are used category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the maximum and to define the liability but future fee income is dependent upon the minimum VaR reported as a whole.
The Group internally uses VaR as the performance of those assets.
This forms part of the Value of in Force primary measure for all treasury positions arising from short term market ViF see note 28. facing activity, whether trading or banking book.
Therefore the numbers For other insurance liabilities the aim is to invest in assets such that below will include some risks which are also included in Banking the cash flows on investments will match those on the projected non-trading, primarily those relating to the funding of lending activities.
It is not possible to eliminate risk completely as the timing of insured events is uncertain and bonds are not available at all of the required maturities.
As a result, the cash flows cannot be precisely matched and so sensitivity tests are used to test the extent of the mismatch.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 77 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 AUDITED INFORMATION TABLE 1.14: BANKING TRADING ASSETS AND OTHER TABLE 1.15: BANKING NON-TRADING TREASURY POSITIONS 2009 2008 unaudited Lloyds Banking Group 31 December 2009 Up 25bps Down 25bps Up 25bps Down 25bps m m m m 1 1 1 Close Average Maximum Minimum m m m m Sterling 66.6 66.4 132.5 135.1 Interest rate risk 12.0 20.2 31.4 11.8 US Dollar 5.5 5.6 15.5 15.6 Foreign exchange risk 1.1 1.7 9.3 0.2 Euro 4.4 4.4 0.4 0.4 Equity risk 1.8 1.4 3.3 0.0 Australian Dollar 2.2 2.3 0.0 0.0 Credit spread risk 16.7 17.4 21.0 13.6 Other 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 Total VaR 31.6 40.7 53.3 31.6 67.5 67.3 148.2 150.8 Lloyds TSB 31 December 2008 Close Average Maximum Minimum Base case market value is calculated on the basis of the Lloyds Banking m m m m Group current balance sheet with re-pricing dates adjusted according Interest rate risk 6.7 3.4 14.7 1.0 to behavioural assumptions.
The above sensitivities show how this Foreign exchange risk 3.0 1.2 4.1 0.1 projected market value would change in response to an immediate parallel shift to all relevant interest rates market and administered.
Equity risk 0.0 0.3 2.7 0.0 This is a risk based disclosure and the amounts shown would be Credit spread risk 8.0 4.9 8.1 4.1 amortised in the income statement over the duration of the portfolio.
Total VaR 17.7 9.8 25.0 5.4 The measure, however, is simplified in that it assumes all interest rates, HBOS unaudited 31 December 2008 for all currencies and maturities, move at the same time and by the same Close Average Maximum Minimum m m m m amount.
Interest rate risk 5.9 3.9 6.4 2.0 Pension schemes Foreign exchange risk 4.3 5.8 11.4 0.9 Management of the assets of the Groups defined benefit pension Equity risk 0.1 0.1 0.8 0.0 schemes is the responsibility of the Scheme Trustees, who also appoint the Scheme Actuaries to perform the triennial valuations.
The Group Credit spread risk Suspended monitors its pensions exposure holistically using a variety of metrics Total VaR 5.9 8.5 12.8 3.5 including accounting and economic deficits and contribution rates.
1 These and other measures are regularly reviewed by the Pensions For this table the average, minimum and maximum positions reflect the period from 19 January 2009 to 31 December 2009.
Strategy Committee and used in discussions with the Trustees, through whom any risk management and mitigation activity must be conducted.
Banking non-trading Market risk in non-trading books consists almost entirely of exposure to Insurance portfolios changes in interest rates.
This is the potential impact on earnings and The Groups market risk exposure in respect of insurance activities value that could occur when, if rates fall, liabilities cannot be re-priced as described above is measured using EEV as a proxy for economic value.
quickly or by as much as assets: or when, if rates rise, assets cannot be The pre-tax sensitivity of EEV to standardised stresses is shown below for re-priced as quickly or by as much as liabilities.
the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008.
The 2008 comparatives are based on a post acquisition basis assuming the legacy businesses Risk exposure is monitored monthly using, primarily, market value were combined at the year end and are unaudited.
This methodology considers all re-pricing mismatches in the credit spread sensitivity was changed from a 25 basis point increase to current balance sheet and calculates the change in market value that a 30 per cent widening of the spread between corporate bonds and would result from a set of defined interest rate shocks.
Where re-pricing the swap curve, including an allowance for the assumed change in the maturity is based on assumptions about customer behaviour these illiquidity premium.
Therefore no 2008 comparative is available.
Foreign assumptions are also reviewed monthly.
exchange risk arises predominantly from overseas holdings of equities.
A limit structure exists to ensure that risks stemming from residual and Impacts have only been shown in one direction but can be assumed temporary positions or from changes in assumptions about customer to be reasonably symmetrical.
Opening and closing numbers only behaviour remain within the Groups risk appetite.
have been provided as this data is not volatile and consequently is not The following table shows, split by material currency, Lloyds Banking tracked on a daily basis.
Group sensitivities as at 31 December 2009 to an immediate up and down 25 basis points change to all interest rates.
78 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION TABLE 1.16: INSURANCE PORTFOLIOS Insurance activities Market risk exposures from the insurance businesses are controlled via As at 31 December 2008 2009 unaudited approved investment policies and triggers set with reference to the m m Groups overall risk appetite and regularly reviewed by the group asset Equity risk impact of 10% fall pre-tax 383.6 429.4 and liability committee: Interest rate risk impact of The With Profit Funds are managed in accordance with the relevant 25 basis point reduction pre-tax 64.0 59.7 funds principles and practices of financial management and legal requirements.
Credit spread risk impact of 30% widening 156.4 n a The investment strategy for other insurance liabilities is determined by the term and nature of the underlying liabilities and asset liability matching positions are actively monitored.
Actuarial tools are used to MITIGATION project and match the cash flows.
Various mitigation activities are undertaken across the Group to manage Investment strategy for surplus assets held in excess of liabilities takes portfolios and seek to ensure they remain within approved limits.
account of the legal, regulatory and internal business requirements for capital to be held to support the business now and in the future.
Banking non-trading activities Interest rate risk arising from the different repricing characteristics of The Group also agrees strategies for the overall mix of pension assets the Groups non-trading assets and liabilities, and from the mismatch with the pension scheme trustees.
between interest rate insensitive liabilities and interest rate sensitive assets, is managed centrally.
Matching assets and liabilities are offset against each other and internal interest rate swaps are also used.
INSURANCE RISK The corporate and retail businesses incur foreign exchange risk in the DEFINITION course of providing services to their customers.
All non-structural foreign The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or exchange exposures in the non-trading book are transferred to the reputational loss, due to fluctuations in the timing, frequency and trading area where they are monitored and controlled.
severity of insured underwritten events and to fluctuations in the timing and amount of claim settlements.
This includes fluctuations Insurance activities in profits due to customer behaviour.
Investment holdings are diversified across markets and, within markets, across sectors.
Holdings are diversified to minimise specific risk and RISK APPETITE the relative size of large individual exposures is monitored closely.
For Insurance risk appetite is defined with regard to the quantum and assets held outside unit-linked funds, investments are only permitted in composition of insurance risk that exists currently in the Group and the countries and markets which are sufficiently regulated and liquid.
direction in which the Group wishes to manage this.
It takes account of the need for each entity in the Group to maintain solvency in excess MONITORING of the minimum level required by the entitys jurisdictional legal or The group asset and liability committee regularly reviews high level regulatory requirements.
market risk exposure including, but not limited to, the data described above.
It also makes recommendations to the group chief executive The Groups overall appetite for insurance risk is reviewed and approved concerning overall market risk appetite and market risk policy.
Exposures annually by the board.
at lower levels of delegation are monitored at various intervals according to their volatility, from daily in the case of trading portfolios to monthly EXPOSURES or quarterly in the case of less volatile portfolios.
Levels of exposures The major sources of insurance risk within the Group are the insurance compared to approved limits are monitored locally by independent businesses and the Groups defined benefit staff pension schemes.
The risk functions and at a high level by group risk.
Where appropriate, nature of insurance business involves the accepting of insurance risks escalation procedures are in place.
which relate primarily to mortality, longevity, morbidity, persistency, expenses, property damage and unemployment.
The prime insurance Banking activities risk carried by the Groups staff pension schemes is related to longevity.
Trading is restricted to a number of specialist centres, the most important centre being the treasury and trading business in London.
MEASUREMENT These centres also manage market risk in the wholesale non-trading Insurance risks are measured using a variety of techniques including portfolios, both in the UK and internationally.
The level of exposure stress and scenario testing: and, where appropriate, stochastic is strictly controlled and monitored within approved limits.
management of the wholesale portfolios is necessary to meet customer Current and potential future insurance risk exposures are assessed and requirements and changing market circumstances.
aggregated using risk measures based on 1-in-20 year stresses and other Market risk in the Groups retail portfolios and in the Groups capital and supporting measures where appropriate, for example those set out in funding activities is managed within limits defined in the detailed Group Note 37. policy for interest rate risk in the banking book, which is reviewed and approved annually.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 79 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 AUDITED INFORMATION MITIGATION OPERATIONAL RISK A key element of the control framework is the consideration of insurance risk by a suitable combination of high level committees boards.
For the DEFINITION life assurance businesses the key control bodies are the board of Scottish The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial Widows Group Limited and the board of HBOS Financial Services or reputational loss, from inadequate or failed internal processes Limited with the more significant risks also being subject to approval by and systems, operational inefficiencies, or from people related or the group executive committee and or Lloyds Banking Group board.
For the general insurance businesses the key control bodies are the There are a number of categories of operational risk: boards of the legal entities including Lloyds TSB General Insurance Limited, St. Andrews Insurance plc and the Irish subsidiaries, with the Legal and regulatory risk more significant risks again being subject to group executive committee Legal and regulatory risk is the risk of reductions in earnings and or and or Lloyds Banking Group board approval.
All Group staff pension value, through financial or reputational loss, from failing to comply with schemes issues are covered by the group asset and liability committee the laws, regulations or codes applicable.
and the group business risk committee.
The overall insurance risk is mitigated through pooling and through Customer treatment risk diversification across large numbers of uncorrelated individuals, The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or geographical areas, and different types of risk exposure.
reputational loss, from inappropriate or poor customer treatment.
Insurance risk is primarily controlled via the following processes: People risk Underwriting the process to ensure that new insurance proposals are The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or properly assessed reputational loss, from inappropriate colleague actions and behaviour, Pricing-to-risk new insurance proposals are priced to cover the industrial action, legal action in relation to people, or health and safety underlying risks inherent within the products issues.
Loss can also be incurred through failure to recruit, retain, train, reward and incentivise appropriately skilled staff to achieve business Claims management objectives and through failure to take appropriate action as a result of Product design staff underperformance.
Policy wording Product management Integration risk The use of reinsurance or other risk mitigation techniques.
The risk that Lloyds Banking Group fails to realise the business growth opportunities, revenue bene ts, cost synergies, operational ef ciencies In addition, limits are used as a control mechanism for insurance risk at and other bene ts anticipated from, or incurs unanticipated costs and policy level.
losses associated with, the acquisition of HBOS plc.
At all times, close attention is paid to the adequacy of reserves, solvency management and regulatory requirements.
Business process risk The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or General insurance exposure to accumulations of risk and possible reputational loss, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes catastrophes is mitigated by reinsurance arrangements which are and systems, people-related events and deficiencies in the performance broadly spread over different reinsurers.
Detailed modelling, including of external suppliers service providers.
that of the potential losses under various catastrophe scenarios, supports the choice of reinsurance arrangements.
Appropriate reinsurance Financial crime risk arrangements also apply within the life and pensions businesses with The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or significant mortality risk and morbidity risk being transferred to our reputational loss, associated with financial crime and failure to comply chosen reinsurers.
with related legal and regulatory obligations which includes compliance Options and guarantees are incorporated in new insurance products only with economic sanctions, these losses may include censure, fines or the after careful consideration of the risk management issues that they present.
In respect of insurance risks in the staff pension schemes, the Group Security risk ensures that effective communication mechanisms are in place for The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or consultation with the trustees to assist with the management of risk in reputational loss, resulting from theft of or damage to the Groups line with the Groups risk appetite.
assets, the loss, corruption, misuse or theft of the Groups information assets or threats or actual harm to the Groups people.
This also includes MONITORING risks relating to terrorist acts, other acts of war, geopolitical, pandemic or Ongoing monitoring is in place to track the progression of insurance other such events.
This normally involves monitoring relevant experiences against expectations for example claims experience, option take up rates, Change risk persistency experience, expenses, non-disclosure at the point of sale, as The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial well as evaluating the effectiveness of controls put in place to manage or reputational loss, from change initiatives failing to deliver to insurance risk.
Reasons for any significant divergence from experience requirements, budget or timescale, failing to implement change are investigated and remedial action is taken.
effectively or failing to realise desired benefits.
Insurance risk exposures are reported and monitored regularly by the group executive committee.
80 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION Governance risk MEASUREMENT The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or Both Lloyds TSB and HBOS had operational risk management reputational loss, from poor corporate governance at group, divisional and measurement frameworks that had been granted, by the FSA, or business unit level.
Corporate governance in this context embraces Advanced Measurement Approach AMA Waivers, enabling the use of the structures, systems and processes that provide direction, control and an internal model for the calculation of regulatory capital.
Throughout 2009, both frameworks have continued to operate, whilst a single integrated framework has been in the course of development.
RISK APPETITE The integrated framework and capital model will be rolled out during The Group has developed an impact on earnings approach to 2010 and it is anticipated that the Group will seek a variation from the operational risk appetite.
This involves looking at how much the Group FSA to operate under a single AMA waiver.
could lose due to operational risk losses at various levels of certainty.
The Lloyds TSB Group capital model calculations are driven by actual In setting operational risk appetite, the Group looks at both impact on loss data internal and external and forward looking scenarios which solvency and the Groups reputation.
value potential future risk events.
External industry-wide data is collected For legal and regulatory risk the Group has minimal risk appetite for to help with validating scenarios.
non-compliance with mandatory requirements and seeks to operate The HBOS capital model calculations are driven by risk and control to high ethical standards.
The Group encourages and maintains an assessments, validated by scenarios and internal and external loss events.
appropriately balanced legal and regulatory compliance culture and promotes policies and procedures to enable businesses and their staff MITIGATION to operate in accordance with the laws, regulations and voluntary codes Both Lloyds TSB and HBOSs operational risk management frameworks which impact on the Group and its activities.
consist of the following key components: EXPOSURES Identification and categorisation of the key operational risks facing a The main sources of operational risk within the Group relate to the business area.
rate and scale of change arising from the Groups current integration Risk assessment, including impact assessment of financial and programme, particularly in respect of people and business processes, non-financial impacts e. g. reputational risk for each of the key risks to and the legal and regulatory environment in which financial firms which the business area is exposed.
operate both in the UK and overseas.
Control assessment, evaluating the effectiveness of the control framework covering each of the key risks to which the business area Legal and regulatory exposure is driven by the significant volume of is exposed.
current legislation and regulation with which the Group has to comply, along with new legislation and regulation which needs to be reviewed, Loss and incident management, capturing actions to manage any assessed and embedded into day-to-day operational and business losses facing a business area.
practices across the Group as a whole.
Following the financial crisis, The development of Key Risk Indicators for management reporting.
the pace and extent of regulatory reform proposals both in the UK Oversight and assurance of the risk management framework in and internationally have increased significantly, and can be expected divisions and businesses.
Future changes in regulation, fiscal or other Scenarios for estimation of potential loss exposures for material risks.
policies are unpredictable and beyond the control of the Group.
Future changes in regulation, fiscal or other policies are unpredictable and The Group purchases insurance to mitigate certain operational risk events.
beyond the control of the Group, but could for instance affect the Groups future business strategy, structure or approach to funding.
MONITORING Further uncertainties arise where regulations are principles-based Business unit risk exposure is aggregated at divisional level and reported without the regulator defining supporting minimum standards either to group risk where a group-wide report is prepared.
The report is for the benefit of the consumer or firms.
This gives rise to both the risk discussed at the monthly group compliance and operational risk of retrospection from any one regulator and also to the risk of differing committee.
This committee can escalate matters interpretation by individual regulators.
to the chief risk officer, or higher committees if appropriate.
For legal and regulatory issues there are significant reputational impacts The insurance programme is monitored and reviewed regularly, with associated with potential censure which drive the Groups stance recommendations being made to the Groups senior management on appetites referred to above.
There are clear accountabilities and annually prior to each renewal.
Insurers are monitored on an ongoing processes in place for reviewing new and changing requirements.
Each basis, to ensure counterparty risk is minimised.
A process division and significant business areas have a nominated individual with is in place to manage any insurer rating changes or insolvencies.
compliance oversight responsibility under FSA rules.
The role of such The Group has adopted a formal approach to operational risk event individuals is to advise and assist management to ensure that each escalation.
This involves the identification of an event, an assessment of business has a control structure which creates awareness of the rules and the materiality of the event in accordance with a risk event impact matrix regulations, to which the Group is subject, and to monitor and report on and appropriate escalation.
adherence to these rules and regulations.
Lloyds Banking Group welcomes the regulation of remuneration provided there is international consensus and we will comply with the FSA code.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 81 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 AUDITED INFORMATION The Groups funding and liquidity position is underpinned by its FINANCIAL SOUNDNESS significant retail deposit base, and has been supported by stable Financial soundness risk has three key risk components covering liquidity funding from the wholesale markets with a reduced dependence on and funding risk: capital risk: and financial and prudential regulatory short-term funding.
A substantial proportion of the retail deposit base reporting, disclosure and tax risk.
is made up of customers current and savings accounts which, although repayable on demand, have traditionally in aggregate provided a stable source of funding.
Additionally, the Group accesses the short-term LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING RISK wholesale markets to raise inter-bank deposits and to issue certificates of deposit and commercial paper to meet short-term obligations.
The DEFINITION Groups short-term money market funding is based on a qualitative Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group does not have sufficient analysis of the markets capacity for the Groups credit.
The Group has financial resources to meet its commitments when they fall due, or can developed strong relationships with certain wholesale market segments, secure them only at excessive cost.
Funding risk is further defined as the and also has access to central banks and corporate customers, to risk that the Group does not have sufficiently stable and diverse sources supplement its retail deposit base.
of funding or the funding structure is inefficient.
The ability to deploy assets quickly, either through the repo market or RISK APPETITE through outright sale, is also an important source of liquidity for the Liquidity and funding risk appetite for the banking businesses is set Groups banking businesses.
The Group holds sizeable balances of high by the board and reviewed on an annual basis.
This statement of the grade marketable debt securities as set out in Table 1.18 which can be Groups overall appetite for liquidity risk is reviewed and approved sold to provide, or used to secure, additional short term funding should annually by the board.
With the support of the group asset and liability the need arise from either market counterparties or central bank facilities committee, the group chief executive allocates this risk appetite across European Central Bank, Federal Reserve, Bank of England.
Individual members of the group executive committee ensure that liquidity risk appetite is further delegated to an appropriate MONITORING level within their areas of responsibility.
It is reported through various Liquidity is actively monitored at business unit and Group level at metrics that enable the Group to manage liquidity and funding an appropriate frequency.
Routine reporting is in place to senior constraints.
The Group chief executive, assisted by the group asset and management and through the Groups committee structure, in particular liability committee and its sub-committee the senior asset and liability the group asset and liability committee and the senior asset and committee, regularly reviews performance against risk appetite.
liability committee which meet monthly.
In a stress situation the level of monitoring and reporting is increased commensurate with the nature EXPOSURE of the stress event.
Liquidity policies and procedures are subject to Liquidity exposure represents the amount of potential outflows in any independent oversight.
future period less committed inflows.
Liquidity is considered from both Daily monitoring and control processes are in place to address both an internal and regulatory perspective.
statutory and prudential liquidity requirements.
In addition, the framework has two other important components: MEASUREMENT A series of measures are used across the Group to monitor both short Firstly, the Group stress tests its potential cash flow mismatch position and long term liquidity including: ratios, cash outflow triggers, liquidity under various scenarios on an ongoing basis.
The cash flow mismatch gaps, early warning indicators and stress test survival period triggers.
position considers on-balance sheet cash flows, commitments received and granted, and material derivative cash flows.
Specifically, Strict criteria and limits are in place to ensure highly liquid marketable commitments granted include the pipeline of new business awaiting securities are available as part of the portfolio of liquid assets.
completion as well as other standby or revolving credit facilities.
Details of contractual maturities for assets and liabilities form an Behavioural adjustments are developed, evaluating how the cash flow important source of information for the management of liquidity risk.
position might change under each stress scenario to derive a stressed Note 54 4 sets out an analysis of assets and liabilities by relevant cash flow position.
Scenarios cover both Lloyds Banking Group name maturity grouping.
In order to reflect more accurately the expected specific and systemic difficulties.
The scenarios and the assumptions behaviour of the Groups assets and liabilities, measurement and are reviewed at least annually to gain assurance they continue to be modelling of the behavioural aspects of each is constructed.
This forms relevant to the nature of the business.
the foundation of the Groups liquidity controls.
Secondly, the Group has a contingency funding plan embedded within the Group Liquidity Policy which has been designed to identify MITIGATION emerging liquidity concerns at an early stage, so that mitigating actions The Group mitigates the risk of a liquidity mismatch in excess of its risk can be taken to avoid a more serious crisis developing.
appetite by managing the liquidity profile of the balance sheet through both short-term liquidity management and long-term funding strategy.
The Group has invested considerable resource to ensure that it will Short-term liquidity management is considered from two perspectives: satisfy the governance, reporting and stress testing requirements of the business as usual and liquidity under stressed conditions, both of which FSAs new ILAS liquidity regime.
This work will continue in 2010 as further relate to funding in the less than one year time horizon.
Longer term parts of the ILAS regime take effect.
The Group has noted the industry funding is used to manage the Groups strategic liquidity profile which move towards strategic balance sheet measures of the funding profile is determined by the Groups balance sheet structure.
Longer term is and has started to monitor the markets net stable funding ratio and the defined as having an original maturity of more than one year.
The Group is aware that the regulatory 82 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION liquidity landscape is subject to potential change.
Speci cally, in relation to the consultation papers issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Strengthening the resilience of the banking sector and International framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring the Group is actively participating in the industry-wide consultation and calibration exercises taking place through 2010.
During the year, the individual entities within the Group, and the Group, complied with all of the externally imposed liquidity and funding requirements to which they are subject.
APPROACH The Group has adopted the heritage Lloyds TSB liquidity and funding approach which involves reduced risk appetite and increasing the diversity of funding sources, supported by extensive analysis of funding needs and strong governance.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 83 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING MANAGEMENT IN 2009 TABLE 1.17: GROUP BALANCE SHEET To understand the trends in liquidity and funding the comparatives have As at 31 December 2009 1 2009 2008 Change been provided for 2008 for the combined businesses.
Consequently, bn bn % pages 83 to 85 covering liquidity and funding management in 2009 Assets are unaudited.
Loans and advances to customers 627.0 677.2 7.4 During 2009, the Group has seen a stabilisation in the customer deposit 2 base, in marked contrast to the volatility observed by parts of the Wholesale assets 153.6 189.2 18.8 heritage HBOS businesses in the second half of 2008.
The customer Banking assets 780.6 866.4 9.9 loan deposit ratio improved slightly to 169 per cent compared with Total assets 1,027.3 1,126.7 8.8 177 per cent at the previous year end.
The challenge facing the Group Liabilities over the medium term is to continue to access the term funding 3 markets, and for the Group to continue to reduce its utilisation of Non-bank deposits 371.2 381.0 2.6 government sponsored funding schemes.
The combination of a clear Wholesale funding 325.5 342.9 5.1 focus on right-sizing the balance sheet, developing the Groups retail Repo 63.1 116.9 46.0 liability base, and strategically accessing the capital markets will enable the Group to continue to strengthen its funding base.
Total equity 44.1 35.7 23.5 Total funding 803.9 876.5 8.3 In keeping with the Groups strategy of right-sizing the balance sheet, total funding has reduced by 73 billion.
During the year the Group Total liabilities and has reduced its dependency on the repo market whilst also reducing shareholders equity 1,027.3 1,126.7 8.8 its wholesale funding requirements.
Additionally there has been a 1 Adjusted to reflect the completion of the assessment of the fair value of the identifiable net managed reduction in certain types of non-bank deposits, in particular assets of the HBOS Group.
certain aggressively priced corporate deposits which were sourced from 2 Wholesale assets comprise balances arising from banking businesses and includes cash and HBOS customers during the crisis in the second half of 2008.
Actions balances at central banks, loans and advances to banks, debt securities and available-for-sale taken to right size the balance sheet have reduced the portion of the financial assets.
3 Groups funding that is derived from wholesale markets.
Non-bank deposits comprise balances arising from banking businesses and consist of customer deposits.
The global upheaval in the financial markets that occurred during 2008 has abated during the latter part of 2009.
The steps taken in 2008 by HM Treasury, through the introduction of the Government Credit Guarantee CGS for senior funding and other facilities including the Special Liquidity Scheme have together continued to provide assurance of liquidity support to the banking markets.
Notwithstanding the improvement in market liquidity during 2009, the Group continues to be reliant upon these facilities in order to maintain its wholesale funding position.
At 31 December 2009, the Groups overall support from government and central bank sponsored funding facilities totalled 157 billion, with a significant portion maturing over the course of the next two years.
The Groups balance sheet reduction plans will avoid the necessity to refinance much of this funding.
The key dependencies on successfully funding the Groups balance sheet include the continued functioning of the money and capital markets at their current levels: successful rightsizing of the Groups balance sheet: the continuation of HM Treasury facilities in accordance with the terms agreed: limited further deterioration in the UKs and the Groups credit rating and no significant or sudden withdrawal of deposits resulting in increased reliance on money markets or UK Government support schemes.
A return to the extreme market conditions of 2008 would place a strain on the Groups ability to meet its financial commitments.
84 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued GROUP RETAIL AND WHOLESALE FUNDING MIX TERM FUNDING Loans and advances to customers is set out on page 67.
The Group has been able to take advantage of the improved market sentiment, by extending the duration of its money market funding, and Wholesale funding has been analysed between that monitored by the by successfully accessing the term debt markets in unguaranteed format London Treasury and Trading operations and the Groups overseas Treasury and through the issuance of Permanent RMBS.
The reduction in the operations.
The wholesale funding shown excludes any repo activity.
volume of money market funding has contributed to an improvement The composition and quality of wholesale deposits are regularly in the Groups term funding ratio wholesale funding with a remaining reviewed by management and comprises deposits from corporates and life of over one year which has improved to 50 per cent at 31 December government agencies that roll over on a regular basis and are reinvested.
2009 from 44 per cent at the previous year end.
The Groups long term target for this ratio is 40 per cent, this seeks to ensure that maturing TABLE 1.18: WHOLESALE FUNDING BY TYPE liabilities are spread over subsequent years.
As at 31 December 2009 2009 2008 2008 Lloyds Banking Group has continued to extend the term of its wholesale bn % bn % funding.
The following significant capital market transactions were Bank deposits 48.6 7.0 54.9 7.6 undertaken in 2009: Debt securities in issue: 13.5 billion rights issue Certi cates of deposit 50.9 7.3 77.5 10.7 5 billion public senior unguaranteed debt Medium term notes 89.7 12.9 63.5 8.8 4 billion public RMBS Covered bonds 28.1 4.0 29.1 4.0 US$2 billion tier 1 capital securities Commercial paper 35.0 5.0 28.9 4.0 Lloyds Banking Group will continue to access the term capital markets, Securitisation 35.8 5.1 43.6 6.0 and has already successfully executed benchmark transactions in January 2010: 239.5 34.3 242.6 33.5 Subordinated debt 37.4 5.4 45.4 6.3 US$5 billion equivalent of public senior term funding 2.5 billion equivalent of public RMBS Total wholesale excluding non-bank The Group had limited access to the term capital markets for large deposits 325.5 46.7 342.9 47.4 periods of 2009 due to highly market sensitive on-going negotiations Customer deposits 371.2 53.3 381.0 52.6 around the Government Asset Protection Scheme and market 1 recapitalisation.
Total Group funding 696.7 100.0 723.9 100.0 Total wholesale funding is analysed by residual maturity as follows: 1 Excludes repos and total equity.
TABLE 1.19: WHOLESALE FUNDING BY RESIDUAL MATURITY As at 31 December 2009 2009 2008 2008 bn % bn % Less than one year 161.8 49.7 192.3 56.1 One to two years 48.8 15.0 29.8 8.7 Two to five years 68.7 21.1 62.2 18.1 More than five years 46.2 14.2 58.6 17.1 Total wholesale funding 325.5 100.0 342.9 100.0 During the period the Group has changed the definition of wholesale to align with that used by other international market participants to include interbank deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated debt within this category.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 85 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The table below illustrates the Groups holding of highly liquid unencumbered assets.
This liquidity is available for deployment at immediate notice and is a key component of the Groups liquidity management process.
TABLE 1.20: ELIGIBLE COLLATERAL As at 31 December 2009 2008 bn bn 1 Primary liquidity 88.4 46.2 2 Secondary liquidity 62.4 58.3 150.8 104.5 1 Primary liquidity is defined as FSA eligible liquid assets UK Gilts, US Treasuries, Euro AAA government debt, unencumbered cash balances held at central banks.
2 Secondary liquidity comprises a diversified pool of highly rated unencumbered collateral including retained issuance The following tables reconcile figures reported on page 84 with those in the balance sheet.
TABLE 1.21: RECONCILIATION OF WHOLESALE FUNDING FIGURE FROM TABLE 1.18 TO THE BALANCE SHEET As at 31 December 2009 Fair value Included in and other funding Repos and accounting Balance analysis conduits methods sheet bn bn bn bn Bank deposits 48.6 27.6 6.3 82.5 Debt securities in issue 239.5 6.0 233.5 Subordinated debt 37.4 2.7 34.7 Total wholesale funding 325.5 27.6 Customer deposits 371.2 35.5 406.7 696.7 63.1 As at 31 December 2008 Fair value Included in and other funding Repos and accounting Balance analysis conduits methods sheet bn bn bn bn Bank deposits 54.9 95.8 4.4 155.1 Debt securities in issue 242.6 3.0 4.1 249.7 Subordinated debt 45.4 3.2 42.2 Total wholesale funding 342.9 98.8 Customer deposits 381.0 18.1 10.1 409.2 723.9 116.9 86 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION A key input into the FSAs ICG setting process is each banks Internal CAPITAL RISK Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
The FSAs approach is to monitor the available capital resources in relation to the ICG requirement.
The DEFINITION Group has been given an ICG by the FSA and the board has also agreed Capital risk is defined as the risk that the Group has insufficient capital to a formal buffer to be maintained in addition to this requirement.
The provide a sufficient resource to absorb losses or that the capital structure FSA has made it clear that each ICG remains a confidential matter is inefficient.
between each bank and the FSA.
RISK APPETITE In addition to the minimum requirement for total capital, the FSA has Capital risk appetite is set by the board and reported through various made further statements to explain the approach it has taken to the metrics that enable the Group to manage capital constraints and capital framework.
These include core tier 1 and tier 1 targets under shareholder expectations.
One of the key metrics is the Groups core stressed conditions.
tier 1 capital ratio for which the board has set a target of more than The Group undertook an extensive series of stress analysis during the 7 per cent.
The chief executive, assisted by the group asset and liability year to determine the adequacy of the Groups capital resources against committee, regularly reviews performance against risk appetite.
The the FSA minimum requirements.
board formally reviews capital risk on an annual basis.
The Group is subject to extensive regulation and regulatory supervision EXPOSURE in relation to the levels of capital in its business.
Specifically in relation A capital exposure arises where the Group has insufficient regulatory to the consultation papers issued by the Basel Committee on Banking capital resources to support its strategic objectives and plans, and to meet Supervision Strengthening the resilience of the banking sector the external stakeholder requirements and expectations.
The Groups capital group is participating in the industry-wide consultation and calibration management approach is focused on optimising value for shareholders.
MEASUREMENT MITIGATION The Groups regulatory capital is divided into tiers depending on level The Group has developed procedures meant to ensure that compliance of subordination and ability to absorb losses.
Core tier 1 capital as with both current and potential future requirements are understood and defined in the FSA letter to the British Bankers Association in May 2009, that policies are aligned to its risk appetite.
comprises mainly shareholders equity and minority interests, after The Group is able to raise equity either via a rights issue, placing or deducting goodwill, other intangible assets and 50 per cent of the an open offer.
Placing and open offers were completed in January as net excess of expected loss over accounting provisions and certain part of the Groups participation in the recapitalisation of the banking securitisation positions.
Accounting equity is adjusted in accordance sector and in June when the Group repaid preference shares which were with FSA requirements, particularly in respect of pensions and available issued to HM Treasury as part of GAPS, and a rights issue and liability for sale assets.
Tier 1 capital, as defined by the European Community management exercise was completed in December.
Banking Consolidation Directive as implemented in the UK by the The Group is also able to raise Tier 2 capital by issuing subordinated Financial Services Authoritys General Prudential Sourcebook GENPRU, liabilities.
The cost and availability of subordinated liability finance are is core tier 1 capital plus tier 1 capital securities.
Tier 2 capital, defined influenced by credit ratings of both the Group and the UKs sovereign by GENPRU, comprises qualifying subordinated debt after deducting rating.
A reduction in these ratings could increase the interest rate 50 per cent of the excess of expected loss over accounting provisions, payable and could reduce market access.
Total capital is the sum of tier 1 and tier 2 capital after deducting investments in subsidiaries and associates The Group has in issue enhanced capital notes ECNs which will convert that are not consolidated for regulatory purposes.
In the case of to core tier 1 capital in the event that Groups published core tier 1 ratio Lloyds Banking Group, this means that the net assets of its life assurance as defined by the FSA in May 2009 falls below 5 per cent.
and general insurance businesses are excluded from its total regulatory MONITORING capital.
Capital is actively managed at an appropriate level of frequency and A number of limits are imposed by the FSA on the proportion of the regulatory ratios are a key factor in the Groups budgeting and planning regulatory capital base that can be made up of subordinated debt and processes with updates of expected ratios reviewed regularly during preferred securities, for example the amount of qualifying tier 2 capital the year by the group asset and liability committee.
Capital raised takes cannot exceed that of tier 1 capital.
The Group seeks to ensure that account of expected growth and currency of risk assets.
Capital policies even in the event of such restrictions the total capital ratio will remain and procedures are subject to independent oversight.
of actual and projected ratios is made to the senior asset and liability The Capital Resources Requirement CRR, is 8 per cent of risk committee and to the group asset and liability committee.
As part of this weighted assets and represents the capital required under Pillar 1 of reporting any guidance to the market is regularly reviewed.
In addition, the FSA currently sets Individual Capital Guidance ICG for each UK bank calibrated by reference to the CRR, to address the requirements of pillar 2 of the Basel II framework.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 87 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 AUDITED INFORMATION TABLE 1.22: CAPITAL RESOURCES 2009 2008 m m Core tier 1 Ordinary share capital and reserves 44,275 9,573 Regulatory post-retirement bene t adjustments 434 435 Available-for-sale revaluation reserve 914 2,982 Cash ow hedging reserve 305 15 Other items 231 108 46,159 12,897 Less deductions from core tier 1 Goodwill and other intangible assets 5,779 2,256 Other deductions 445 1,099 Core tier 1 capital 39,935 9,542 Perpetual non-cumulative preference shares Preference share capital 2,639 1,966 Innovative tier 1 capital instruments Preferred securities 4,956 3,169 Less: restriction in amount eligible 976 Total tier 1 capital 47,530 13,701 Tier 2 Available-for-sale revaluation reserve in respect of equities 221 8 Undated subordinated debt 2,575 5,189 Innovative capital restricted from tier 1 976 Eligible provisions 2,694 21 Dated subordinated debt 20,068 5,091 Deductions from tier 2 Other deductions 445 1,099 Total tier 2 capital 25,113 10,186 Supervisory deductions Unconsolidated investments life 10,015 4,208 Unconsolidated investments other 1,551 550 Total supervisory deductions 11,566 4,758 Total capital resources 61,077 19,129 Risk-weighted assets unaudited 493,307 170,490 Ratios unaudited Core tier 1 ratio 8.1% 5.6% Tier 1 capital ratio 9.6% 8.0% Total capital ratio 12.4% 11.2% As part of the exchange offer announced in November 2009, certain preference shares, preferred securities and undated subordinated notes issued by the Group were exchanged for new ordinary shares with settlement in February 2010.
Had the exchange settled in December 2009, the core tier 1 ratio would have been 8.4 per cent unaudited.
88 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION TIER 1 CAPITAL RISK WEIGHTED ASSETS unaudited Core tier 1 capital increased by 30.4 billion largely reflecting the The following table sets out the Groups risk weighted assets that issuance of share capital during the year and retained profits.
primarily arise in its banking businesses.
Tier 1 capital increased by 33.8 billion principally as a result of the TABLE 1.24: ANALYSIS OF RISK WEIGHTED ASSETS increase in core tier 1 capital.
The remainder of the increase reflects the As at 31 December 2009 2008 inclusion of HBOS tier 1 instruments, an increase in innovative securities unaudited unaudited of 2 billion as part of a liability management exercise to exchange bn bn upper tier 2 debt and a further issuance of 1.2 billion innovative Credit risk 452.1 149.6 securities in December 2009.
This increase is offset by the effects of the Operational risk 25.3 12.3 offer of enhanced capital notes during December 2009: as part of the Groups recapitalisation and exit from GAPS, certain preference shares Market and counterparty risk 15.9 8.5 and preferred securities were exchanged for enhanced capital notes 493.3 170.4 included within tier 2 capital.
Divisional analysis TABLE 1.23: MOVEMENTS IN CORE TIER 1 AND TIER 1 CAPITAL Retail 128.6 49.7 DURING THE YEAR Wholesale 286.0 106.8 Core tier 1 Tier 1 Insurance 1.1 0.1 m m Wealth and International 63.2 11.0 As at 31 December 2008 9,542 13,701 Group Operations and Central items 14.4 2.8 Pro t attributable to ordinary shareholders 2,827 2,827 493.3 170.4 Issue of ordinary shares 29,139 29,139 Recognition of HBOS tier 1 capital instruments 5,653 Risk-weighted assets increased by 322.9 billion to 493.3 billion, Movement in goodwill and other intangible principally as a result of the acquisition of HBOS plc which had assets 2,526 2,526 risk-weighted assets of 328.0 billion at 31 December 2008.
Subsequent to the acquisition, deteriorating economic conditions have led to Movement in tier 1 securities relating to ECNs increased average risk weightings.
This has been offset, primarily within exchange offer 5,447 Whoesale, by a reduction in exposures due to impairments and asset Innovative securities exchange 1,959 run-off, and movements due to currency retranslations.
Innovative issuance 1,235 TABLE 1.25: ANALYSIS OF CAPITAL RATIOS Other movements 953 989 Lloyds TSB Bank Group BOS Group As at 31 December 2009 39,935 47,530 2008 2009 2008 2009 unaudited m m m m TIER 2 CAPITAL Tier 2 capital has increased in the period by 14.9 billion, largely due to Tier 1 18,307 13,574 25,565 17,328 the acquisition of HBOS.
The liability management exercises undertaken Tier 2 7,677 10,437 14,112 15,238 reduced tier 2 capital and increased tier 1 capital.
The enhanced capital Supervisory notes exchange offer completed during 2009 resulted in the exchange deductions 5,182 4,758 1,062 919 of certain existing tier 1 and tier 2 securities for tier 2 notes valued at Total capital 20,802 19,253 38,615 31,647 7.2 billion for regulatory purposes.
Under certain specified conditions, these securities would convert to ordinary share capital and increase RWAs unaudited 174,472 170,490 322,866 326,703 core tier 1 capital.
Ratios unaudited Core tier 1 7.1% 5.5% 7.5% 4.7% SUPERVISORY DEDUCTIONS Supervisory deductions mainly consist of investments in subsidiary Tier 1 10.5% 8.0% 7.9% 5.3% undertakings that are not within the banking group for regulatory Total capital 11.9% 11.3% 12.0% 9.7% purposes.
These investments are primarily the Scottish Widows and Clerical Medical life and pensions businesses.
Capital is managed at Group level and surplus capital is retained, where possible, at Lloyds Banking Group holding company level as this provides the Group with maximum flexibility on how to deploy its capital.
Capital ratios increased from the prior year in both Lloyds TSB and BOS Group primarily due to capital downstreamed in the year by Lloyds Banking Group.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 89 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 AUDITED INFORMATION FINANCIAL AND PRUDENTIAL REGULATORY BASIS OF DETERMINING REGULATORY CAPITAL OF REPORTING, DISCLOSURE AND TAX RISK THE LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESSES DEFINITION AVAILABLE CAPITAL RESOURCES The risk of reputational damage, loss of investor confidence and or Available capital resources represent the excess of assets over liabilities financial loss arising from the adoption of inappropriate accounting calculated in accordance with detailed regulatory rules issued by the policies, ineffective controls over financial, prudential regulatory and tax FSA.
Additional rules may apply depending on the nature of the fund, as reporting, failure to manage the associated risks of changes in taxation detailed below.
rates, law, ownership or corporate structure and the failure to disclose Statutory basis.
Assets are generally valued on a basis consistent with information about the Group on a timely basis.
that used for accounting purposes with the exception that, in certain RISK APPETITE cases, the value attributed to assets is limited and which follows a The risk appetite is set by the board and reviewed on an annual basis.
market value approach where possible.
Liabilities are calculated using It includes complying with disclosure requirements within prescribed a projection of future cash flows after making prudent assumptions timescales and avoiding the need for restatement of published financial about matters such as investment return, expenses and mortality.
and prudential regulatory reporting, publicly disclosed information or tax Discount rates used to value the liabilities are set with reference to the reporting.
risk adjusted yields on the underlying assets in accordance with the FSA rules.
Other assumptions are based on recent actual experience, EXPOSURE supplemented by industry information where appropriate.
The Exposure represents the sufficiency of the Groups policies and assessment of liabilities does not include future bonuses for with-profits procedures to maintain adequate books and records to support policies that are at the discretion of management, but does include a statutory, prudential and tax reporting, to prevent and detect financial value for policyholder options likely to be exercised.
reporting fraud and to manage the Groups tax position.
The FSA requires each life insurance company which contains a with-profit fund in excess of 500 million to also carry out MITIGATION a realistic valuation of that fund.
The Group has two such funds: one The Group maintains a system of internal controls, which is designed within Scottish Widows and one within Clerical Medical.
The word to be consistently applied and enable the preparation and disclosure realistic in this context reflects the terminology used for reporting to the of financial reporting, prudential regulatory reporting and tax returns in FSA and is an assessment of the financial position of a with-profits fund accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, statutory calculated under a prescribed methodology.
The system of internal control is designed to ensure that accounting policies are consistently applied, transactions The valuation of with-profits assets in a with-profits fund on a realistic are recorded and undertaken in accordance with delegated authorities basis differs from the valuation on a statutory basis as, in respect of and that assets are safeguarded and liabilities are properly recorded.
non-profits business written in a with-profits fund a relatively small amount of business in the case of Scottish Widows and Clerical Medical, MONITORING it includes the present value of the anticipated future release of the The Group has in place a disclosure committee whose responsibility prudent margins for adverse deviation.
The realistic valuation uses the is to review all significant disclosures made by the Group and to market value of assets without the limit affecting the statutory basis assist the group chief executive and group finance director fulfil their noted above.
responsibilities under the Listing Rules and regulations emanating from The realistic valuation of liabilities is carried out using a stochastic the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
A programme of work is undertaken simulation model which values liabilities on a basis consistent with and is designed to support an annual assessment of the effectiveness tradable market option contracts a market-consistent basis.
The model of internal controls over financial reporting, in accordance with the takes account of policyholder behaviour on a best-estimate basis and requirements of section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
It also has in includes an adjustment to reflect future uncertainties where the exercise place an assurance mechanism over its prudential regulatory reporting: of options by policyholders might increase liabilities.
Further details additionally, monitoring activities are designed to identify and maintain regarding the stochastic simulation model are given in the section entitled tax liabilities and to assess the impact of emerging regulation and Options and guarantees on page 94. legislation on financial, prudential regulatory and tax reporting.
REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESSES Each life insurance company must retain sufficient capital to meet the regulatory capital requirements mandated by the FSA: the basis of At 31 December 2009, the principal subsidiaries involved in the Groups calculating the regulatory capital requirement is given below.
Except life insurance operations were Scottish Widows plc Scottish Widows for Scottish Widows and Clerical Medical, the regulatory capital and Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited Clerical Medical.
requirement is a combination of amounts held in respect of actuarial These subsidiaries hold the only large with-profit funds managed by reserves, sums at risk and maintenance expenses the Long-Term Lloyds Banking Group.
Insurance Capital Requirement and amounts required to cover various stress tests.
The regulatory capital requirement is deducted from the available capital resources to give statutory excess capital.
90 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION For Scottish Widows and Clerical Medical, no amount is required to CAPITAL STATEMENT cover the impact of stress tests on the actuarial reserves.
However, The following table provides more detail regarding the capital resources a further test is required in respect of the with-profit funds, which available to meet regulatory capital requirements in the life insurance compares the level of realistic excess capital to the statutory excess businesses.
The figures quoted are based on managements current capital of each with-profit fund.
In circumstances where the realistic expectations pending completion of the annual financial returns to the excess capital position is less than statutory excess capital, the FSA.
The figures allow for a transfer of 261 million and an anticipated company is required to hold additional capital to cover the shortfall, transfer of 147 million from long-term funds to the UK life shareholder but only to the extent it exceeds the value, calculated in a prescribed funds as at 31 December 2009. way, of internal transfers from the with-profit fund.
Any additional capital Following the acquisition of the life companies within HBOS plc, requirement under this test is referred to as the With-Profits Insurance the format of the capital position statement has been revised to Capital Component.
The realistic excess capital is calculated as the accommodate the reporting of all life assurance businesses within difference between realistic assets and realistic liabilities of the withthe Group.
profit fund with a further deduction to cover various stress tests.
The determination of realistic liabilities of the with-profit funds includes the value of internal transfers expected to be made from each with-profit fund to the non-profit fund held within the same life insurance entity.
These internal transfers include charges on policies where the associated costs are borne by the non-profit fund.
The With-Profits Insurance Capital Component may be reduced by the value, calculated in the stress test scenario, of these internal transfers, but only to the extent that credit has not been taken for the value of these charges in deriving actuarial reserves for the relevant non-profit fund.
TABLE 1.26: CAPITAL RESOURCES UK life Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK non-profit shareholder Overseas life Total With Profit Fund With Profit Fund funds funds business life business m m m m m m As at 31 December 2009 Shareholders funds: Held outside the long-term funds 1,048 651 1,699 Held within the long-term funds 8,011 405 8,416 Total shareholders funds 8,011 1,048 1,056 10,115 Adjustments onto a regulatory basis: Unallocated surplus within insurance business 310 772 1,082 Value of in-force business 5,513 793 6,306 Other differences between IFRS and regulatory valuation of assets and liabilities 253 154 108 207 Estimated share of realistic liabilities consistent with the FSA reporting treatment 407 40 447 Qualifying loan capital 1,165 1,165 Support arrangement assets 354 354 Available capital resources 257 732 2,397 2,059 371 5,816 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 91 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 AUDITED INFORMATION Scottish Widows UK non-profit UK life Overseas Total With Profit Fund funds shareholder funds life business life business m m m m m As at 31 December 2008 statutory basis Shareholders funds Held outside the long-term funds 865 2 867 Held within the long-term funds 3,762 - 13 3,775 Total shareholders funds 3,762 865 15 4,642 Adjustments onto a regulatory basis: Unallocated surplus within insurance business 293 293 Value of in-force business 1,893 1,893 Other differences between IFRS and regulatory valuation of assets and liabilities 25 317 4 296 Estimated share of realistic liabilities consistent with the FSA reporting treatment 406 406 Qualifying loan capital 604 604 Support arrangement assets 371 371 Available capital resources 258 1,523 1,152 11 2,944 Available capital resources for with-profit funds are presented in the in the Non-Participating Fund was 1,627 million 31 December 2008: table on a realistic basis.
1,523 million and the estimated value of the Support Account was 222 million 31 December 2008: 200 million.
FORMAL INTRA-GROUP CAPITAL ARRANGEMENTS Further Support Account: The Further Support Account is an extra Scottish Widows has a formal arrangement with one of its subsidiary tier of capital support for the with-profits policies in existence at the undertakings, Scottish Widows Unit Funds Limited, whereby the date of demutualisation.
The Scheme requires that assets can only be subsidiary company can draw down capital from Scottish Widows to transferred from the Non-Participating Fund if the economic value of finance new business which is reinsured from the parent to its subsidiary.
the remaining assets in the fund exceeds the aggregate of the Support Scottish Widows has also provided subordinated loans to its fellow Account and Further Support Account.
Unlike the Support Account group undertaking Scottish Widows Bank plc.
test, the economic value used for this test includes both admissible assets and the present value of future profits of business written in the Constraints over available capital resources Non-Participating Fund or by any subsidiaries of that fund.
The balance SCOTTISH WIDOWS of the Further Support Account is expected to reduce to nil by the year Scottish Widows was created following the demutualisation of Scottish 2030.
At 31 December 2009, the estimated net economic value of the Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society in 2000.
The terms of the Non-Participating Fund and its subsidiaries for the purposes of this test demutualisation are governed by a Court-approved Scheme of Transfer was 3,823 million 31 December 2008: 3,605 million and the estimated the Scheme which, inter alia, created a With Profit Fund and a combined value of the Support Account and Further Support Account Non-Participating Fund and established protected capital support for was 2,495 million 31 December 2008: 2,582 million.
the with-profits policyholders in existence at the date of demutualisation.
Other restrictions in the Non-Participating Fund: In addition to the Much of that capital support is held in the Non-Participating Fund and, policies which existed at the date of demutualisation, the With Profit as such, the capital held in that fund is subject to the constraints noted Fund includes policies which have been written since that date.
As a result of statements made to policyholders that investment Requirement to maintain a Support Account: The Scheme requires policy will usually be the same for both types of business, there is an the maintenance of a Support Account within the Non-Participating implicit requirement to hold additional regulatory assets in respect Fund.
The quantum of the Support Account is calculated with reference of the business written after demutualisation.
The estimated amount to the value of assets backing current with-profits policies which also required to provide such support at 31 December 2009 is 132 million existed at the date of demutualisation and must be maintained until 31 December 2008: 171 million.
Scottish Widows has obtained from the value of these assets reaches a minimum level.
Assets can only be the FSA permission to include the value of this support in assessing transferred from the Non-Participating Fund if the value of the remaining the realistic value of assets available to the With Profit Fund.
There is assets in the fund exceeds the value of the Support Account.
Scottish a further test requiring that no amounts can be transferred from the Widows has obtained from the FSA permission to include the value of Non-Participating Fund of Scottish Widows unless there are sufficient the Support Account or, if greater, the excess of realistic liabilities for assets within the Long Term Fund to meet both policyholders business written before demutualisation over the relevant assets in reasonable expectations in light of liabilities in force at a year end and assessing the realistic value of assets available to the With Profit Fund.
the new business expected to be written over the following year.
At 31 December 2009, the estimated value of surplus admissible assets 92 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION CLERICAL MEDICAL OTHER LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESSES The surplus held in the Clerical Medical With Profit Fund can only Except as described above capital held in UK non-profit funds is be applied to meet the requirements of the fund itself or distributed potentially transferable to other parts of the Group, subject to meeting accordingly to the prescribed rules of the fund.
Shareholders are entitled the regulatory requirements of these businesses.
There are no prior to an amount not exceeding one ninth of the amount distributed to arrangements in place to allow capital to move freely between life policyholders in the form of bonuses.
The use of capital within the fund insurance entities or other parts of the Group.
is also subject to the terms of the scheme of demutualisation effected Overseas life business includes several life companies outside the in 1996 and the conditions contained in the Principles and Practices of UK, including Germany and Ireland.
In all cases the available capital Financial Management of the fund.
Capital within the Clerical Medical resources are subject to local regulatory requirements, and transfer to Non-Profit Fund is available to meet the With Profit Fund requirements.
other parts of the Group is subject to additional complexity surrounding the transfer of capital from one country to another.
MOVEMENTS IN REGULATORY CAPITAL The movements in the Groups available capital resources in the life business can be analysed as follows: TABLE 1.27: MOVEMENTS IN AVAILABLE CAPITAL RESOURCES Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK non-profit UK life Overseas Total With Profit Fund With Profit Fund funds shareholder funds life business life business m m m m m m As at 31 December 2008 258 1,523 1,152 11 2,944 Acquisition of life businesses 511 1,205 1,342 250 3,308 Changes in estimations and in demographic assumptions used to measure life assurance liabilities 19 208 43 36 110 Changes in regulatory requirements Dividends and capital transfers 438 453 14 905 Change in support arrangements 17 17 New business and other factors 16 202 298 25 88 579 As at 31 December 2009 257 732 2,397 2,059 371 5,816 WITH-PROFIT FUNDS UK LIFE SHAREHOLDER FUNDS Available capital in the Scottish Widows With Profit Fund has decreased Available capital in the UK life shareholder funds has increased from from 258 million at 31 December 2008 to an estimated 257 million at 1,152 million at 31 December 2008 to an estimated 2,059 million at 31 December 2009.
The acquisition of Clerical Medical resulted in a 1,342 million increase.
Redemption of subordinated debt shown within Available capital in the Clerical Medical With Profit Fund has increased dividends and capital transfers has been partly offset by actual and from 511 million at acquisition to an estimated 732 million at proposed transfers from the long term funds.
OVERSEAS LIFE BUSINESS UK NON-PROFIT FUNDS The acquisition of Clerical Medical business resulted in a 250 million Available capital in the UK non-profit funds has increased from increase.
Further increases were due to new business and changes in 1,523 million at 31 December 2008 to an estimated 2,397 million at assumptions.
The acquisition of Clerical Medical resulted in a 1,205 million increase.
Further increases due to new business were offset by changes in assumptions and actual and proposed transfers to the UK life shareholders funds.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 93 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 AUDITED INFORMATION Analysis of policyholder liabilities reported in the balance sheet in respect of the groups life insurance business is as follows.
With-profit fund liabilities are valued in accordance with FRS 27.
TABLE 1.28: ANALYSIS OF POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK non-profit Overseas Total With Profit Fund With Profit Fund funds life business life business m m m m m As at 31 December 2009 With-pro t fund liabilities 13,347 10,225 5 23,577 Unit-linked business excluding that accounted for as non-participating investment contracts 32,816 6,864 39,680 Other life insurance business 11,449 183 11,632 Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities 13,347 10,225 44,270 7,047 74,889 Non-participating investment contract liabilities 45,328 1,020 46,348 Total policyholder liabilities 13,347 10,225 89,598 8,067 121,237 Scottish Widows UK non-profit Total With Profit Fund funds life business m m m As at 31 December 2008 With-pro t fund liabilities 13,293 13,293 Unit-linked business excluding that accounted for as non-participating investment contracts 11,480 11,480 Other life insurance business 8,364 8,364 Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities 13,293 19,844 33,137 Non-participating investment contract liabilities 14,243 14,243 Total policyholder liabilities 13,293 34,087 47,380 94 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION the With Profit Fund of Scottish Widows called the Additional Account CAPITAL SENSITIVITIES which is available, inter alia, to meet any additional costs of providing guaranteed benefits in respect of those policies.
The Additional Account SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS had a value at 31 December 2009 of 1.6 billion 2008: 2.0 billion.
The Shareholders funds outside the long-term business fund, other than eventual cost of providing benefits on policies written both pre and those used to match regulatory requirements, are mainly invested in post demutualisation is dependent upon a large number of variables, assets that are less sensitive to market conditions.
including future interest rates and equity values, demographic factors, such as mortality, and the proportion of policyholders who seek to WITH-PROFIT FUNDS exercise their options.
The ultimate cost will therefore not be known for The with-profit realistic liabilities and the available capital for the withmany years.
profit funds are sensitive to both market conditions and changes to a number of non-economic assumptions that affect the valuation of As noted above, under the realistic capital regime of the FSA, the the liabilities of the fund.
The available capital resources and capital liabilities of the with-profit funds are valued using a market-consistent requirements are sensitive to the level of the stock market, with stochastic simulation model.
This model is used in order to place a value the position worsening at low stock market levels as a result of the on the options and guarantees which captures both their intrinsic value guarantees to policyholders increasing in value.
However, the exposure and their time value.
to guaranteed annuity options increases under rising stock market levels.
The most significant economic assumptions included in the model are: An increase in the level of equity volatility implied by the market cost of equity put options also increases the market consistent value of the Risk-free yield.
The risk-free yield is defined as spot yields derived from options given to policyholders and worsens the capital position.
The most critical non-economic assumptions are the level of take-up Investment volatility.
The calibration of the stochastic simulation of options inherent in the contracts higher take-up rates are more model uses implied volatilities of derivatives where possible, or onerous, mortality rates lower mortality rates are generally more historical observed volatility where it is not possible to observe onerous and lapses prior to dates at which a guarantee would apply meaningful prices.
For example, as at 31 December 2009, the 10 year lower lapse rates are generally more onerous where guarantees equity-implied at-the-money assumption was set at 26.6 per cent are in the money.
The sensitivity of the capital position and capital 31 December 2008: 34.6 per cent.
The assumption for property requirements of the with-profit funds is partly mitigated by the actions volatility was 15 per cent 31 December 2008: 15 per cent.
The that can be taken by management.
volatility of interest rates has been calibrated to the implied volatility of swaptions which was broadly 15 per cent 31 December 2008: OTHER LONG-TERM FUNDS 16 per cent.
Outside the with-profit funds, assets backing actuarial reserves in respect The model includes a matrix of the correlations between each of the of policyholder liabilities are invested so that the values of the assets underlying modelled asset types.
The correlations used are consistent and liabilities are broadly matched.
The most critical non-economic with long-term historical returns.
The most significant non-economic assumptions are mortality rates in respect of annuity business written assumptions included in the model are management actions in respect lower mortality rates are more onerous.
Reinsurance arrangements are of investment policy and bonus rates, guaranteed annuity option in place to reduce the Groups exposure to deteriorating mortality rates take-up rates and assumptions regarding persistency both of which are in respect of life insurance contracts.
In addition, poor cost control would based on recent actual experience and include an adjustment to reflect gradually depreciate the available capital and lead to an increase in the future uncertainties where the exercise of options by policyholders might valuation of the liabilities through an increased allowance for future costs.
increase liabilities, and assumptions regarding mortality which are Assets held in excess of those backing actuarial reserves are invested based on recent actual experience and industry tables.
across a range of investment categories including fixed interest securities, equities, properties and cash.
The mix of investments is OPTIONS AND GUARANTEES OUTSIDE THE determined in line with the policy of Lloyds Banking Group to minimise WITH-PROFIT FUNDS the working capital defined as available capital less minimum required Certain personal pension policyholders in Scottish Widows, for whom capital required to ensure all capital requirements continue to be met reinstatement to their occupational pension scheme was not an option, under a range of stress tests.
have been given a guarantee that their pension and other benefits will correspond in value to the benefits of the relevant occupational pension scheme.
The key assumptions affecting the ultimate value of the OPTIONS AND GUARANTEES guarantee are future salary growth, gilt yields at retirement, annuitant mortality at retirement, marital status at retirement and future investment The Group has sold insurance products that contain options and returns.
There is currently a provision, calculated on a deterministic guarantees, both within the with-profit funds and in other funds.
basis, of 64 million 31 December 2008: 65 million in respect of those guarantees.
If future salary growth were 0.5 per cent per annum greater OPTIONS AND GUARANTEES WITHIN THE than assumed, the liability would increase by some 3 million.
If yields WITH-PROFIT FUNDS were 0.5 per cent lower than assumed, the liability would increase by The most significant options and guarantees provided from within the some 11 million.
with-profit funds are in respect of guaranteed minimum cash benefits on death, maturity, retirement or certain policy anniversaries, and guaranteed annuity options on retirement for certain pension policies.
For those policies written in Scottish Widows pre-demutualisation containing potentially valuable options and guarantees, under the terms of the Scheme a separate memorandum account was set up within
