Review of business pRincipAl Risks And unceRtAinties the GRoup opeRAtes mAndAtoRy GRoupwide Risk mAnAGement pRoceduRes which Allow mAnAGement to mAke betteR, moRe infoRmed And moRe consistent decisions bAsed on A cleAR undeRstAndinG of the Risks involved Risks are identified at project, operational The need for increased management and strategic levels.
Whilst the management of counterparty risk may result in a shift of risk remains a line responsibility, risks are of OTC traded products on-exchange or also monitored at a corporate level by the extend the use of the CCP model, giving relevant Group committees.
the Groups regulated markets a clear advantage and opportunity for growth.
Whilst our revenues and profitability, as a provider of services to the financial services Regulation sector, are highly dependent on the levels of The securities industry is closely regulated activity within that industry, we as a Group and as such, in addition to having to comply do not carry the significant balance sheet with company law, local government and EU risks or liabilities typically associated with legislative requirements, Group companies that sector see Counterparty Credit Risk are subject to authorisation and continuous below.
The financial services industry is oversight by regulatory bodies in the UK dynamic and unpredictable and is directly and Italy, which ultimately have the power to affected by many macro-economic variables revoke these authorisations.
The Directors beyond our control.
At the same time, other are not aware of any circumstances which factors which could impact on the Groups would result in the authorisations being long-term performance are specific to revoked, and comprehensive procedures the business.
are in place to ensure ongoing compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements.
The following section covers the principal risks and uncertainties currently facing The securities markets have recently been the Group.
In addition, the main risks the subject of increasing governmental and arising from the Groups use of financial public scrutiny in response to the global instruments are discussed in note 1 to economic crisis.
During the coming months, the financial statements.
it is possible that there will be significant changes in our regulatory environment.
In Risks RelAtinG to the industRy the UK, the Turner Review and the FSAs economic environment accompanying Discussion Paper A The ongoing recessionary environment regulatory response to the global banking could reduce customer demand for our crisis indicate a commitment to revise the services and the ability of our customers, FSAs regulatory philosophy and enhance lenders and other counterparties to its supervisory approach.
The Group meet their obligations to us.
The current continuously monitors developments and recession has reduced trading values engages in dialogue with regulatory and across our markets and the pace of initial government authorities at both the national public offerings has declined to levels and EU level.
below those of recent years.
The outlook for recovery in the market for initial public competition offerings is closely tied to the availability of The implementation of MiFID in Europe risk capital which may not return to historic has made it easier for multilateral trading levels for some time.
The demand for real facilities to establish themselves as time data may reduce due to cut backs in low-cost alternatives to regulated headcount and costs among customers.
exchanges, thereby increasing the number of liquidity pools, with several new entrants.
This competition may further intensify in the near future especially as technological advances create pressure to reduce the London Stock Exchange Group 32 Annual Report 2009 the woRlds cApitAl mARket costs of trading.
In addition, a high from clearing members and by maintaining extending existing facilities.
Through these proportion of our trading business is default funds of clearing members financing activities the Group has also concentrated in a small number of market contributions.
During the year, the quantum broadened the number of its supporting participants which may lead to further of margins taken from, and default funds banks from two to nine.
held for, its clearing members have increased significantly, demonstrating a The Group maintains an active dialogue with Both the European Code of Conduct, to prudent approach taken in light of prevailing its relationship banks as well as seeking which the Group is a signatory, and the financial market conditions.
CC&G has not, independent advice on key factors affecting plan by the European Central Bank to to date, experienced a default of any of its the equity and debt markets.
create a centralised settlement mechanism clearing members and has never made use for Eurozone securities, may increase of default funds held.
employees competition among post trading The calibre and performance of our senior organisations.
The Group is exposed to credit risk management and other key employees are from third parties, including customers, critical to the success of the Group.
Our The Group is well placed to respond to counterparties and clearing agents.
These ability to attract and retain key personnel is these developments and continues to parties may default on their obligations dependent on a number of factors including focus on leveraging its post trade assets to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, prevailing market conditions, compensation and on developing and delivering operational failure or other reasons.
The packages offered by companies competing competitive products, technology, pricing Group has stringent and proactive credit for the same talent and any regulatory structures and services to reduce the management processes in place to mitigate impact thereon and the impact of share overall cost of trading which is key to this risk and these processes have had, and price performance on our share schemes.
maintaining strong customer relationships continue to receive, very significant focus Failure to attract and retain key personnel and deep pools of liquidity.
at managerial and Board level.
may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business through an inability to execute Risks RelAtinG to the business brand name & Reputation business strategies effectively.
To manage technology The Groups strong reputation and brand this, the Group regularly reviews its reward To compete effectively, the Group must be names are a key competitive strength.
and incentive systems to ensure they are able to anticipate and respond, in a timely Damage to the Groups reputation could competitive, operates performance and effective manner, to the need for new have an adverse effect on revenue and appraisal systems and provides executive and enhanced technology.
The markets in can be caused by: development opportunities.
Additionally, which we compete are characterised by the Nominations Committee considers the rapidly changing technology, evolving Litigation: succession plans for key positions.
industry standards, frequent enhancements Negative publicity: to existing products and services, the Technology failures: partnerships Joint ventures introduction of new services and products Failure of market supervision: New business initiatives, such as Baikal and changing customer demands.
Instances of market abuse: and and AIM Italia, together with partnerships Inaccurate trade information, and joint ventures with third parties, for Our businesses depend on technology financial and market data.
example, Oslo Brs and TSE, are an which is secure, stable and performs to important part of our growth strategy.
high levels of availability and throughput.
The Group constantly monitors those areas Such ventures may require significant If our systems cannot expand to cope of the business that could cause harm to resources, result in unanticipated losses, with increased demand or otherwise fail to the reputation of the business and evaluates costs or liabilities, or fail to achieve the perform, we could experience unanticipated its procedures accordingly.
Appropriate structures disruptions in service, slower response and processes are in place to ensure such times and delays in the introduction of financing initiatives progress smoothly and that new products and services.
The Group needs to invest in its operations there is sufficient management focus to maintain and grow the business.
on delivering the projected benefits.
The Group is investing continually to Although the Group believes its current increase the capacity, responsiveness, capital requirements can be met from foreign exchange functionality and accessibility of its systems.
internally generated funds, cash on hand Geographical expansion has meant that It employs rigorous software design and available borrowings under existing the Group is now exposed to volatility in methodologies, logistics planning and credit facilities, if the capital and credit the sterling euro foreign exchange rate.
assembly and testing regimes to minimise markets continue to experience volatility, The business has limited transactional implementation risk and maintains access to new incremental capital or credit foreign exchange exposure as most of its alternative computer facilities to reduce may not be available on acceptable terms or revenues and related costs arise in the the likelihood of system disruptions.
Any additional equity financing may be currencies of its operations, whilst major dilutive to holders of ordinary shares, while monetary transfers between euro and counterparty credit Risk any debt financing may require restrictions sterling entities are hedged.
Borsa Italiana Acting as central counterparty, CC&G to be placed on the Groups future financing S. p. A represents around 44 per cent of clears a range of equity-related, fixedand operating activities.
Group revenue and a one cent movement income-related and derivative products.
in the euro exchange rate has an impact on It assumes the counterparty risk for all In addition, further capital may not be revenue of approximately 2 million.
The transactions that are cleared through available in the debt markets to support Group partially hedges euro denominated its markets.
CC&G closely monitors subsequent re-financing activities as these net assets with euro borrowings, thus its exposure to clearing members, become due.
During the year, the Group providing some mitigation of the economic and addresses this exposure by holding successfully arranged new committed five risk as euro earnings are used to service collateral in the form of margin deposits and three year credit facilities as well as and repay euro denominated debt.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report 2009 33
