Man Group plc 40 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Risk Management Fundamental to our business Strong risk management is integral to the investment management process for our fund products.
Risk management is also an essential component in maintaining a high quality, sustainable business for our shareholders.
Our approach is to identify, monitor and Risk identification, measurement Senior management in the businesses are evaluate risk throughout the Group and to and mitigation accountable for all risks assumed in their manage these risks within our risk appetite.
Assessing the potential impact on Man of areas of responsibility and for the execution We also maintain sufficient excess capital and internal and external factors that might give of appropriate risk management discipline substantial liquidity resources to give us rise to a direct or indirect loss or demand within the framework of policy and delegated flexibility both to continue to finance long-term for liquidity.
authority set out by the Board.
The results of growth and to operate the business effectively Using a range of methodologies including risk-taking decisions are reflected in the under market stress situations.
In this regard economic capital, value-at-risk, stress economics of the businesses assuming the market conditions during the last 12 months testing, scenario analysis and qualitative risk.
The principle of individual accountability have provided a strong test of the robustness assessment to assess the potential impact and responsibility for risk management is an of Mans risk management processes and the and likelihood of the identified risks.
important feature of our corporate culture.
strength of its balance sheet.
Man has The process of systematically monitoring consistently maintained a regulatory capital and reporting on Mans risk profile against Day to day independent and objective surplus of around $1.5 billion during this period its risk appetite, exposures against limits, assessment and monitoring of risk is provided and has always had a buffer of excess liquidity losses and other risk related incidents, by various risk control functions at the Group of at least $3 billion.
compliance issues and the effectiveness level and in business.
These risk control of our internal controls.
functions include Group Risk, Finance, Legal, Risk management process Compliance, Human Resources and Internal There are three key elements of our risk Risk governance responsibility and Audit.
In addition, risk management functions management process: accountability reside within each business unit.
There are The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible formal reporting lines and segregation of duties The risk governance framework for the framework of risk governance and risk for the key Risk, Compliance, Legal and Establishing clear functional responsibilities management.
The Board is responsible for Finance functions.
and accountabilities and committee determining risk strategy, setting Mans risk structures for the management of risk.
appetite and ensuring that risk is monitored Risk appetite Setting risk policies, delegated authorities and controlled effectively.
The Board of Risk appetite is the amount and type of risk and limits consistent with the risk appetite.
Directors has given delegated authority to two that Man regards as appropriate for it to Ensuring appropriate skills and resources committees the Risk Assurance Committee accept in order to execute its strategy.
The are applied to risk management.
and the Finance Committee to provide Board regularly reviews and sets this in the oversight across all risks faced by the form of 10 risk appetite statements, which it The risk appetite of the Group business.
The responsibilities and membership sets in the context of Mans strategy and the Setting the overall tolerance for a of these committees are explained in more requirements of various stakeholders, including risk-related loss in terms of quantitative detail in the Governance and Risk Pillar 3 the regulatory framework in which we operate.
disclosures section on the Groups website.
Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 41 The risk appetite statements, which are summarised below, provide the benchmark against which Mans risk profile is reported, monitored and managed by the Board, Audit and Risk Committee, Finance Committee and Risk Assurance Committee.
Risk appetite also forms the basis for the calibration and setting of the delegated authorities and financial limits for all aspects of market, credit, liquidity and operational risk.
The 10 risk appetite statements address both quantitative and qualitative aspects of risk taking.
The quantitative risk appetite statements address: maximum tolerance for market, credit and operational losses: the maintenance of a minimum credit rating level: minimum economic and regulatory capital surpluses: the maximum earnings volatility: and minimum excess liquidity resources to meet peak stressed liquidity requirements Kevin Hayes, Robert Aitken, Stephen Ross standing without the need to liquidate assets or raise capital.
The principal risks are described in more detail Risk of credit losses on loans to funds, The qualitative risk appetite statements in the tables on pages 42 and 43. exposures to bank and broker counterparties address: or in respect of trade credit insurance, In addition to the principal risks discussed reinsurance and retrocession policies written regulatory risk: above, Man is exposed to other risks including: by its subsidiary Empyrean Re.
reputation risk: Risk that income is reduced because business mandate: Risk of reduced investor appetite for the of the impact of adverse movements on operational risks in the execution risk return and diversification profile of foreign exchange rates to the mismatch of business plans: and alternative investment products, which between non-dollar denominated costs risk related decision making, especially could result in lower sales and higher and revenues.
in relation to new business opportunities.
Risk that the Groups performance is Risk that poor fund performance and adversely affected by the departure of Principal risks competitive pressure results in lower fees key people.
The principal risks faced by Man are: on our products.
This risk may be higher in market conditions where absolute Further information on Mans risk profile is risk of poor performance of its returns are lower and a given level of contained in Note 9 to the financial statements.
fund products: fees may absorb a higher proportion risk of reduced availability and or increased of the gross return.
cost of leverage for certain fund products: Risk that fiscal changes either make liquidity risk relating to fund products: alternative investment products less risk resulting from failures in operational attractive for private investors when processes in our investment management compared with traditional investment businesses: products or increase the long-term risk resulting from concentrations in effective corporate tax rate.
investors and distribution capacity: Risk that as AHLs funds under risk of market risk losses on proprietary management increase and as its investments in hedge fund products: and investment exposure increases across risk that future regulatory change could the numerous instruments and markets make it more difficult to market alternative in which it trades that it will be unable investment products to potential investors.
to sustain the returns that it has achieved historically.
Despite an increase in AHL The Groups reputation may also be adversely funds under management to over $20 affected in the event that any of these risks billion, there is no evidence that this has were to crystallise during the year.
Man Group plc 42 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Risk Management continued Nature of risk Quantification Mitigation Under-performance of fund products Under-performance of our fund products compared KPIs of excess shortfall of returns of Wide range of investment products with different risk and with other investment products or with investor fund products over benchmarks are return characteristics.
expectations could lead to lower sales and higher shown on page 5.
35% of Mans funds under management comprise principal redemptions, thereby reducing funds under guaranteed products, which give the investor confidence to stay management and fee income.
invested long-term and to withstand short-term market volatility.
Negative fund performance reduces or could even Currently, all our core investment In most financial years, the diversity of product range eliminate performance fees and reduces managers are some way below reduces the likelihood of all products being in drawdown at management fees.
performance fee high water marks and the same time.
therefore it is unlikely that significant If a simultaneous drawdown does occur, the magnitutde and performance fee income will be earned recovery time between styles results in a lower risk of a in the 2009 10 financial year.
Availability of external leverage At the year-end drawn finance leverage Funds have facilities with 15 banks, with various maturity dates.
In the current market environment there is reduced was $4.7 billion, with a further $1.9 The fund products can reduce their use of external leverage or appetite of financial counterparties to provide billion available.
financing to support the leverage in fund products.
Man is not committed to replace external financing, but has Reduced availability of, or increased cost of, external discretion to bridge financing to a fund.
The amount of funding leverage could reduce the returns on certain fund is subject to strict risk limits.
Negative fund performance and or increased volatility in fund performance can reduce the amount of external leverage available to certain fund products.
Fund product financing The provision of funding for this The amount of aggregate lending by Man is subject to The liquidity terms offered by certain of our fund purpose by Man is discretionary strict limits to ensure that any lending is within our liquidity products to investors in those products are better except where Committed Purchase risk appetite.
than the liquidity terms available to those fund Agreements CPAs are provided to Use of managed accounts significantly reduces the risk of products from their underlying investments.
CPAs to all our fund products being exposed to liquidity restrictions by the event of redemptions by investors in the fund products amounted to $1.0 billion at external managers.
products, the fund may need access to a bridging 31 March 2009 2008: $2.7 billion.
Man has substantial excess liquidity to enable it to meet the facility until the proceeds from the sale of underlying committed liquidity provision to its fund products.
If bridging is not available Mans unutilised liquidity buffer of cash from an external bank, the fund may request Man and undrawn committed facilities was to provide the necessary short-term bridging.
The $4.8 billion at 31 March 2009, and did potential for, and size of, the liquidity gap increases not fall below $3.1 billion during the year.
to the extent that the managers of third party funds, in which our fund products have invested, impose gates or suspend redemptions.
AHL executes futures and options transactions on the AHL can close positions and this would result in repayment of worlds largest futures exchanges.
The exchanges initial margin which would generate cash flow in the event that require both initial and variation margin to be posted.
Man does not provide the bridging.
In the event of substantial market movements, Man has the discretion to fund short-term and intra-day AHL additional margin may be required and, to the extent margin calls and maintains sufficient liquidity to be able to meet that the fund products affected do not have sufficient these calls if it chooses to do so.
cash, intra-day and short-term bridging may be required from Man until the funds cash is released from the exchanges.
Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 43 Nature of risk Quantification Mitigation Operational risks Man could suffer losses due to operational risk and The diversified economic capital Our culture emphasises the importance of effective risk damage to its reputation arising from any failures in requirement for operational risk at management, strong internal controls, sound governance and a processes and procedures in its business.
Examples 31 March 2009 amounted to $337 clear understanding of the competitive advantage and value of of significant risks include fraud, mis-selling of million 2008: $210 million.
products or errors in fund prospectuses, failures information on economic capital is We pay particular attention to operational and reputational risks of due diligence or breach of investment mandate, provided on page 73. relating to product suitability, sales practices at intermediaries and technology failures and fund valuation errors.
the accuracy of our valuation and investor reporting processes.
Man aims to operate only through regulated intermediaries in An adverse effect on the Groups reputation as a all jurisdictions where investment advice is a regulated activity result of a significant operational failure could result and continues to invest heavily in technology to improve its in lower sales and higher redemptions of our fund investor servicing.
Lower fee income could exacerbate the Strong risk due diligence procedures are applied in the single negative impact of the direct operational loss.
manager selection process, portfolio construction and ongoing risk monitoring.
Risk management personnel, independent of The impact of Madoff is discussed on page 28. the portfolio managers, have monitoring and risk management responsibility so that the risk management process operates appropriately within the investment managers.
AHL is fully compliant with industry standards for disclosure, risk management, valuation, fund governance and market related issues, as determined and maintained by the Hedge Fund Standards Board.
Independent valuation service providers are used for the valuation of our fund products and underlying third party managers where a managed account is in place.
A dedicated team monitors the quality and reliability of administration and valuation service providers.
Valuation Committee, chaired by the Chief Risk Officer of the investment management business, meets monthly to review and approve any issues relating to valuation.
Significant resources are devoted to protecting the resilience of Mans information technology systems, including formal business continuity plans and remote data back-up and disaster recovery facilities for each of our key locations.
Business continuity for our core activities is regularly tested to maintain effectiveness.
The system of internal control is subject to regular review by Internal Audit, based on an audit programme approved annually by the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board.
The programme covers the business areas and processes that are significant in terms of Mans risk profile and where there are key controls on which Man relies.
Investor and distributor concentration There is a risk that the appetite for our products The top 10 institutional investors hold Breadth of products targeted to different market segments.
among a concentrated group of investors or 20% of our FUM, and the top 10 Approximately 60% of our funds under management are from distributors may change, resulting in a sudden private investor distributors account private investors and 40% from institutional investors.
The reduction of funds under management and lower for 22% of our FUM.
redemption patterns of private and institutional investors have management and performance fees.
Geographic diversification of investors and intermediaries.
Our distribution partners have global size and scale or a local leadership position and are the largest financial institutions, wealth advisers and brokers.
We currently have over 2,000 distributors globally.
Our institutional investors are geographically dispersed and are among the largest banks, pension funds, insurance companies and asset managers.
We have over 250 institutional investors refer to the Distribution section for further details.
Market risk on proprietary investments Adverse market movements could result in a Total exposure at 31 March 2009: Limits are placed on investments in funds, both at the level loss on Mans proprietary investments in various $718 million 31 March 2008: $1,279 of the individual fund and in aggregate.
See Note 9 b on page 94 for A series of risk measures and limits relating to seed investments further details of market risk.
are reviewed regularly and exposures are reduced, if market conditions mean that there is no longer a business case for retaining the investment.
Regulatory change There is a risk that future regulatory changes could Dedicated regulatory compliance teams provide us with an make it more difficult to market alternative investment infrastructure for handling regulatory change and their potential products to potential investors.
Regulatory changes effects on our products.
could also increase the capital that counterparties are required to hold for exposures to certain hedge fund products.
This could adversely affect the availability and cost of funding for such products.
