PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review 71 Our risks Governance Financial statements Other information We continually ask ourselves the small but M highly important question what if?
In 2009 we conducted six major workshops to assess whether Summary of key risks any individual risk had increased, decreased Specifi c risks Our response or become obsolete since it was last assessed: Technology to identify any new risks, especially from recent Products become Continued investment key business events and: to identify the likelihood uncompetitive in soft ware, systems of a risk occurring and its possible impact on and infrastructure the Group.
Systems failure Disaster recovery The workshops help to embed risk management Increased risk Sophisticated antiwithin the business and improve responsibility and of fraud fraud systems accountability for managing business objectives and risks.
Facilitated by the Internal Audit & Risk Customer withdrawals Diverse player base Management team, they involved key people Reputation damage All of the measures from each of the prime functions across all Group noted above locations: Technology, Marketing, Human Regulation Resources, Operations, Finance, Legal and Closure of markets Active engagement Company Secretarial.
with regulators and An executive level workshop was also conducted governments by the Executive Risk Committee towards the Impact on margins Careful management end of 2009, to ensure that all strategic risks were of regulatory identifi ed and a consensus on the signifi cant risks compliance resulting from the individual functional workshops Legal action Compliance is overseen was agreed.
by the Board, legal Many of the threats and challenges faced by department and online gaming companies are similar to those external advisers faced by other leisure and entertainment Failure to comply with All of the measures industries.
They include competition, changes to Non-Prosecution noted above consumer tastes, maintaining healthy fi financial Agreement with US ratios in compliance with banking covenants, authorities loss of key personnel and so on.
But there are Unlevel playing fi eld in online poker also certain risks that are more specifi c to Increased customer Product and territory PartyGaming and to the online gaming industry acquisition costs diversifi cation that deserve particular mention.
These risks are summarised in the table on this page and Loss of player liquidity B2C, B2B and B2G described in detail overleaf.
strategy Reduced margins Product and marketing innovation Taxation Lower returns on Tax planning investment PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 72 Our risks Technology Unlevel playing fi eld in online poker Technology is the engine of the online gaming As noted previously in this Annual Report, the sites industry and no operator can aff ord to stand still.
that continue to accept online gaming customers Improving our gaming platform is a never-ending from the US have created an unlevel playing fi eld and vital task that continually sharpens our that represents an ongoing threat to our poker competitive edge, keeps us abreast of evolving business.
To mitigate this threat, we are consumer tastes and upholds our reputation for concentrating our eff orts on operational operating a safe and secure gaming environment.
excellence, increasing our brands strength and relevance to consumers in a number of Deploying our own proprietary technology across international markets by providing excellent the bulk of our business helps mitigate the risks gaming entertainment.
associated with technological change compared to those that are heavily reliant on third-party Taxation gaming soft ware and systems.
However, we do Group companies operate for tax purposes only share the industrys general risks associated with where they are incorporated, domiciled or providers for services such as broadband and registered.
Revenues earned from customers communications, data management and located in a particular jurisdiction may give rise to storage.
To counter these risks, we have back-up further taxes in that jurisdiction.
If such taxes are centres for disaster recovery purposes and we levied, either on the basis of existing law or the continually aim to restrict our reliance on any one current practice of any tax authority, or by reason supplier for any particular service.
of a change in law or practice, then this may have a material adverse eff ect on the amount of Regulation tax payable by the Group.
We manage these risks Regulatory compliance is a prime management by considering tax as part of our business planning.
Our geographic reach means that our landscape comprises many diff erent regimes, overlaid by a complex and M diverse web of political and cultural attitudes towards online gaming.
Our compliance Change in risk versus 2008 Rationale for change obligations range from administration of our Technology gaming licences in Gibraltar, Italy and Alderney No change to assessing what impact country-specifi c and Regulation pan-regional rules and regulations might have on Reduce Signing of NPA and our business and the wider industry.
Whilst attitudes opening of markets in towards online gaming as a leisure pursuit continue a number of territories to evolve, there is always a risk that certain territories may seek to outlaw online gaming.
Unlevel playing fi eld in poker No change We advocate that the best way to protect consumers is to license and regulate online Taxation gaming, a concept that is now being grasped by Increase Opening of markets likely more countries around the world and particularly to require additional so in Europe with France and Denmark the next local taxes to be paid to join the UK and Italy by introducing online Based on management's assessment.
We continue to believe that our conservative approach and proven management of regulatory compliance will deliver signifi cant business opportunities over the medium to longer term.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review 73 Governance Financial statements Other information Our values A smart operator Our business has been built on trust and confi dence.
Being smart is not about appearances, it is about being responsible regarding all of our stakeholders.
