37 Risk overview Weve made good progress over the last few years, The risk of litigation from customers and competitors and were confident in our ability to keep up this is always present, as it is for most large organisations.
However, like any business, we face a such as Panama and the Caribbean are especially litigious.
number of potential risks in achieving our strategic Unfavourable outcomes could significantly affect our financial goals.
Some of these risks are shared by all businesses, performance or reputation.
Where and when litigation is such as competition and the economic climate as well brought against us, we defend our position robustly using as social, ethical and environmental risks, and some appropriate legal advice and services.
are more specific to our Group.
We make a number of estimates and assumptions relating Our Directors have identified the following key risks that to the reporting of our operating results and our financial could affect our future success.
In addition to the other condition when preparing the consolidated financial statements.
information contained in this Annual Report, investors in Our results may differ significantly from these estimates Cable & Wireless should consider these risks carefully.
under different assumptions and conditions.
In particular, some of our accounting policies require subjective and complex Group-wide risks judgements about the effect of matters that are often uncertain.
Like most businesses, we are exposed to the current economic We have outlined the Groups critical accounting policies in environment.
This could affect our growth and profitability as note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in order to well as our ability to finance our business and pay dividends.
help users of our accounts understand the basis for forming However, were confident that our Group structure two separate these judgements.
businesses with distinct products, services and geographies helps reduce our exposure.
Both our businesses monitor key We operate in many international locations, and our profits are recession indicators closely and have plans in place to address taxed according to the differing tax laws of these jurisdictions.
any sustained impact of the downturn.
In addition, we have As a result, our effective tax rate could be altered by changes raised sufficient debt to meet our medium term liquidity needs in legislation, management assessments or in the geographical and continue to maintain good relationships with our core banks.
allocation of our income and expense.
An alteration in this rate would influence our financial results and so we constantly Our financing agreements mean that were subject to certain monitor actual and proposed changes to legislation to anticipate financial and other covenants.
If were unable to meet these any tax effects.
covenants, we may have to repay facilities early, adversely affecting our cash position.
We monitor covenant positions Were dependent on our employees for our future success.
against our forecasts and budgets to ensure that we continue From 2006 we have rewarded and retained our key senior to operate within our covenant limits.
managers through long term incentive plans linked to our two businesses or Group performance.
In order to retain these We believe that with our Group structure and incentive individuals and their valuable skills and experience, we have schemes, we are well positioned to deliver increased value to developed long term incentive proposals including a one year our shareholders.
However, if this structure and these incentive extension of the existing LTIP and will be asking shareholders schemes are not effective, we may not achieve our strategic to approve these proposals at the 2009 AGM.
goals which could have an adverse effect on our results and reputation.
We manage this risk with clear governance Our global network is a critical asset, enabling us to provide structures, including Operating Boards for each business that customers with efficient and extensive telecommunication review strategy and performance formally, to help us create services.
We operate, manage, bill and support these services, value for the Group as a whole.
and manage our financial information, with our IT systems.
Like other telecoms operators, our network and IT systems are Our main defined benefit pension scheme, based in the UK, vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural disasters, is well managed and measures have been taken to reduce fire, security breaches, terrorist action, human error and other financial risk exposures.
However, the value of the schemes factors outside of our control.
If we were to experience full or assets and liabilities are affected by market movements and we partial network or IT failure we might lose customers or receive may also have to make additional contributions to the scheme claims from customers based on loss of service, affecting our if the schemes assumptions change.
We engage in regular reputation and results.
We are confident that we have dialogue with the scheme Trustees who manage the schemes appropriate business continuity and disaster recovery plans, assets with appropriate external advice.
We purchased crisis management and emergency response teams and annuities for all of our UK pensioner liabilities during the year, insurance cover.
In addition, we strive constantly to improve significantly reducing the risk relating to these obligations.
our network and add resilience where issues are identified.
We generate a significant proportion of our profits outside the Many of our business strategies rely on mobile telecommunications UK.
These profits and associated investments are exposed to technology.
There have been some concerns expressed that exchange rate fluctuations which affect our results and financial mobile phones and transmitters may pose long term health condition.
Often the effects of exchange rate movements naturally risks.
If these claims are proven, we might lose a strategic offset in the short term.
We use foreign exchange hedging revenue stream or be exposed to litigation.
We continue to contracts see note 44 to our consolidated financial statements keep abreast of research in this field.
and where appropriate, we borrow locally or in linked currencies in order to match operating and financing cash flows.
Business review 38 Risk overview Risks specific to CWI Risks specific to Worldwide Our CWI businesses are transforming themselves into The strategy of the Worldwide business is to serve the competitive enterprises to respond to the liberalisation of our largest users of telecommunication services in the UK and markets putting in place initiatives to enhance the customer internationally.
To achieve this, were transforming our service experience and improve cost efficiency.
A key initiative is our quality with increased automation, our go to market capability One Caribbean programme in which were bringing together with new products and services and our economics.
13 subsidiaries under one management structure with one Furthermore in October 2008, we acquired Thus and are now brand and a common set of products and services.
While were integrating it into our existing business to create value and confident that this programme will help us achieve our goals, generate significant cost synergies.
Implementing a business it involves managing 13 sets of stakeholders, and as with all transformation and integrating an acquired business is complex, business transformation initiatives, implementation is complex, time consuming and expensive.
Such activities are vulnerable to time consuming and expensive.
To counter this, were driving the issues such as poor data integrity and associated processes that initiatives through detailed transformation programmes with key can jeopardise our customer solutions and reduce the speed of milestones and objectives.
If we fail to execute our plans properly, our operations and results may be adversely affected.
Thats why Competition continues to increase in some of our markets, weve established detailed transformation programmes with key notably Panama.
Our revenue and margins may be adversely milestones, designed to ensure we achieve our aims.
affected by new entrants taking market share and pushing prices down through aggressive pricing.
We prepared well for Its important to ensure that we maintain the security of our the new competition in Panama by differentiating ourselves customers data, especially where services are delivered outside from the competition through marketing promotions and the UK.
If the large amounts of sensitive data passing through focusing on excellent customer service and network coverage.
our network were to fall into the wrong hands, we would be In many markets, we are the only company to offer a full service exposed to significant legal and regulatory consequences.
In addition, we share competitor analysis across our increase security further, weve started an IT security mitigation businesses to help us preempt the effect of competitors programme to review our offshore operating model and actions.
implement onshore controls and business support processes.
New revenue sources, such as mobile value added services, Like all major telecoms operators in the UK, were reliant on BTs managed services and enterprise solutions, are crucial to network to deliver some services to our customers.
BT is also our growth strategy.
If these fail to develop as well as were our largest competitor with over 50% share of our core market expecting, our revenue may fall as our other core services reach of enterprise customers.
Because BT is both the main full market penetration.
Were confident in our new product competitor and main supplier to telecommunications operators development and marketing strategies and the improvements in the UK, the regulator, Ofcom, must regulate BTs practices weve made to the way new products are introduced and are adequately to ensure that a fair competitive environment developing CWI-wide product implementation strategies to is maintained.
If it doesnt, we may be unable to compete ensure our new revenue sources are as successful as we can effectively, which could have a material effect on our results.
We engage with Ofcom to encourage balanced regulation and appeal against decisions that are perceived to favour the We believe we have all of the necessary regulatory licences interests of BT.
and concessions we need to operate in our markets.
If we fail to renew our licences when necessary, we would not be able BT is due to introduce its next generation network 21CN and to operate in certain locations.
To address this risk, we actively next generation fibre roll out.
This network and fibre roll out is work with governments and regulatory bodies to help them likely to lead to a substantial change in commercial relationships deliver a regulatory environment that best suits the needs of between telecommunications operators networks, as well as consumers and local governments whilst enabling continuing to the terms on which services are delivered.
The timing of stability for, and investment in, our business.
the introduction of BTs 21CN and what impact these new commercial arrangements will have on us is unclear at this Our joint ventures contributed 34 million to our profit this stage.
We are actively engaging with Ofcom as regulation year.
However, without management control, we are often will be a key factor in shaping these new arrangements.
unable to influence their performance or ensure that they do not underperform.
To minimise underperformance, were maintaining regular dialogue with key stakeholders, actively engaging with local management and seeking to be involved operationally.
We also seek to gain management control wherever possible.
39 04 Cable & Wireless at a glance 06 Chairmans review CWI Governance 09 Chief Executives review 10 Business overview 14 Performance review How we manage 18 Corporate responsibility Worldwide our business 21 Executive Chairmans review 22 Business overview including Board 26 Performance review 30 Corporate responsibility Cable & Wireless Group committees 32 Group Finance Directors review 33 Financial performance review and Directors 37 Risk overview biographies and 40 Board of Directors 42 Directors report 46 Corporate governance report remuneration.
48 Statement from the independent Non-executive Directors 49 Report of the Audit Committee 50 Directors remuneration report 60 Statement of Directors responsibilities Cable & Wireless Group 62 Independent auditors report 63 Consolidated financial statements 67 Notes to the financial statements Cable and Wireless plc 120 Independent auditors report 121 Company financial statements 123 Notes to the financial statements 136 Useful shareholder information Shareholder Financial Governance Business Introduction information statements review
