32 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES A SKILLED TEAM MANAGING BUSINESS RISKS Since the IPO in early 2007, the Groups activities in India have been managed by Cairn India, a majority-owned subsidiary Given the nature of the oil and gas exploration and production of Cairn Energy PLC listed in India.
Outside of Cairn India, business, getting risk management right is an essential the Group manages its operations through its unlisted component of business success at Cairn.
At the highest level, Cairns strategy is to establish commercial Business risks across the Group are addressed in a systematic reserves from strategic positions in high potential exploration way through a risk management structure shown opposite plays, resulting in the creation and delivery of shareholder and within an integrated business risk management process wealth.
In pursuing this strategy Cairn considers investment that puts in place controls to mitigate these risks.
More detail opportunities that provide the right mix of political, commercial on Cairns approach to risk management is provided in the and technical risks.
Cairns success in South Asia over the past Internal Control section of the Corporate Governance 20 years has been achieved through having the confidence in Statement on pages 59 and 60.
Cairns technical and commercial acumen and ability to identify, assess and effectively manage uncertainties.
Cairn will also Our principal risks, uncertainties and mitigation strategies knowingly take informed risks which are appropriate for the as at the end of 2009 are summarised below: component parts of the business in pursuit of Cairns vision.
Cairn has recently acquired a large acreage position in Greenland where it will seek to replicate its earlier and continued success in South Asia.
STRATEGIC RISKS Impact: Strategy fails to create shareholder value or meet shareholder expectations.
Risk: Mitigation: Strategy fails to create shareholder Our strategy is focused on the development of our production base in India and value or meet shareholder expectations our potentially high impact exploration position in Greenland.
We have regular, open and transparent communications with all stakeholders to ensure there is a clear understanding of the Group and its strategy risks and potential rewards.
In addition, we protect our strategic alignment with our listed subsidiary, CIL, through our controlling shareholding and our representation on the CIL Board, all of which is underpinned by a formal Relationship Agreement.
Risk: Mitigation: Ineffective capital allocation Regular reviews of the risk and reward potential across the asset base of the Group.
Risk: Mitigation: Inadequate resource and succession Competitive remuneration and incentivisation policies and staff appraisal, planning across the Group training and development programmes.
Executive and senior management succession planning.
FINANCIAL RISKS Impact: Asset financial requirement and access to funding may not be matched, leading to an inability to meet the Groups financial obligations.
Risk: Mitigation: Inability to fund exploration and Prudent approach adopted in budgeting and business planning to ensure development work programmes sufficient equity cash is available to meet commitments on exploration drilling, while maintaining appropriate leverage to enhance returns from development and production assets.
Risk: Mitigation: Shortfall in operational cash flow, Scenario planning for both oil price and production volumes is a key feature of our through lower than expected oil business planning process, which provides comfort on our funding headroom.
prices or production levels Risk: Mitigation: Potential impact of disputes resulting Compliance matrices and legal, financial, supply chain and operational due diligence from different interpretation of fiscal, to minimise the potential for inadequate processes leading to disputes.
legal agreements or regulations, leading to additional costs, increased taxation and failure to achieve cost recovery See also Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies in Note 29 in Notes to the Accounts on pages 130 to 133.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 33 BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT AT CAIRN Functional Department Risks Integrated business Audit Cairn Energy Corporate & New risk management Risk Management Committee PLC Board Venture Risks system, including Committee review by CEC Asset Country Risks India, Greenland, Mediterranean & South Asia OPERATIONAL RISKS Impact: Exploration, development or production operations detrimentally impacted by incidents involving staff, contractors, communities, suppliers or losses to the environment, leading to reputational damage, project delays, cost overruns or loss of revenue.
Risk: Mitigation: Health, safety and Implementation of Corporate Responsibility CR Management System on all environmental incidents projects, with regular monitoring of effectiveness of risk mitigation measures and reporting and investigation of all incidents.
Emergency response organisation and procedures regularly tested.
Risk: Mitigation: Security incidents Security risks evaluated during project screening processes and protective measures regularly tested.
Emergency and crisis response organisation and procedures regularly tested.
Risk: Mitigation: Maintaining regulatory approval Understanding of legal and regulatory requirements, engagement with government for projects operations and regulators and maintenance of compliance matrices in each asset project.
Risk: Mitigation: Ineffective Business Operational activities conducted in accordance with policies, standards Management System and procedures, which are regularly reviewed and audited.
Risk: Mitigation: Failure to secure materials, Contracting strategy and procurement processes, supplemented by market services or resources intelligence and regular engagement with contractors suppliers.
Risk: Mitigation: Inadequate ice management Ice monitoring surveys undertaken and specialist ice management plan for drilling in Greenland consultancy providing advice and input to ice management plan.
Risk: Mitigation: Ineffective business continuity plans Disaster recovery and business continuity plans regularly tested.
Risk: Mitigation: Inadequate systems to prevent Consistent application of Group Code of Business Ethics throughout bribery and corruption the supply chain.
EXTERNAL RISKS Impact: Cairn is active in a number of overseas markets and strategy delivery may be affected by changes in external political, regulatory or market conditions.
Risk: Mitigation: Changes in regulatory and fiscal The Group cannot predict the impact of future changes in fiscal policy in the environment affecting delivery countries and markets in which it operates: however, building successful of strategy or value relationships with governments, regulators, local community representatives and industry associations allows the Company to keep abreast of potential changes and allow appropriate lobbying.
Risk: Mitigation: Ineffective stakeholder relationships Maintaining successful relationships with internal and external stakeholders through aligned Corporate and Asset level stakeholder management and communication plans.
Risk: Mitigation: Inadequate response to natural disasters Insurance in place for assets.
Risks evaluated during project screening affecting Group assets or staff processes and appropriate precautionary steps identified.
