RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK and capItal management Our risk management frameworks provide essential tools to enable us to take timely and informed decisions to maximise opportunities and mitigate potential threats.
Andrew Birrell Group Risk and Actuarial Director Every business activity in our Group requires us RISK and capItal dRIVe ValUe to put capital at risk, in exchange for the prospect of earning a return.
In some activities, the level of return is quite predictable, whereas in other activities Value the level of return can vary over a very wide range, ranging from a loss to a profit.
Accordingly, over the past year we have expended substantial energy Risk prole is Capital allocation on improving our risk and capital management a key driver of is a key driver framework, to focus on taking risks where we: value creation of value Understand the nature of the risks we are taking, and what the range of outcomes could be under various scenarios, for taking these risks Understand the capital required in order to assume these risks Understand the range of returns that we can Risk Capital earn on the capital required to back these risks Attempt to optimise the risk-adjusted rate of Required capital return we can earn, by reducing the range of is a function of outcomes and capital required arising from these the risk distribution risks, and increasing the certainty of earning an acceptable return.
We have embarked on a journey, which requires us to undertake this analysis on an ongoing and rigorous basis.
We believe that this process will add value for our shareholders, and provide security to our other capital providers and clients.
Value is 102 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 added for shareholders if our process allows us to optImISIng the UpSIde and demonstrate sustainable risk-adjusted returns in excess of our cost of capital.
The process provides managIng the downSIde security to our capital providers and clients by assuring them that we are not taking on incremental Risk management is an integral part of our management risks which adversely affect the outcomes we have decisionmaking process, enabling us to ensure that: contracted to deliver to them.
Risktaking is a consciously chosen strategic decision and not This section of the Annual Report discusses how our accidental Group manages Risk and Capital to generate value.
These methodologies are embedded into the Group Risk management is optimal and capital is effectively employed and business unit management decision-making process, our first line of defence.
The role of the The frequency and severity of surprises are reduced by timely Group and Business Unit Chief Risk Officers CROs measurement, mitigation and control.
is to provide robust challenge to the management Successful risk management does not mean that downside events teams based on quantitative and qualitative metrics as part of their second line of defence mandate.
will never occur but that they happen infrequently and with low The Group Internal Audit team provides the third line severity.
The Group also manages upside by exploring and exploiting risk The pursuit of value requires us to balance risk opportunities, while ensuring that risks associated with these assumed with capital required: opportunities are fully understood and acceptable.
This allows If risk assumed is greater than the capital the Group: we have available, an adverse outcome will prejudice solvency Greater flexibility for reallocation of capital and risk capacity when opportunities arise If capital available is greater than the risk-assuming opportunities that can be Competitive advantage through greater understanding of risk identified, the result will be a low-risk but types, pricing and management.
low-return business It is possible to have a high-risk, low-return business, which represents the worst of all appetite.
Hence our approach to risk management outcomes is not limited to considering downside impacts Our objective is an appropriate risk capital or risk avoidance: it also encompasses taking balance, which seeks to provide higher certainty risk knowingly for competitive advantage.
of achieved risk-adjusted returns within an The requirements of Solvency II will demand that acceptable level of risk assumed and capital companies consider their approach to risk, capital required, but which does not expose us to and value management more robustly and we unacceptably high risk of capital depletion in the believe that our initiatives to date fit well with these event of adverse outcomes.
Our objective of balancing risk, return and capital Risk management is integral to the Groups has led us to enhance substantially our risk and decision-making and management process.
capital management methodologies, in order The Groups ambition is to embed it in the role and to be able to identify threats, uncertainties and purpose of all employees via the organisational opportunities and in turn develop mitigation and culture, thus enhancing the quality of strategic, management strategies to achieve an optimal capital allocation and day-to-day business decisions.
The risk management community within The past year has tested all companies ability to the businesses have worked alongside management minimise downside risk resulting from upheavals to develop and implement tools that assist in in the financial sector.
Old Mutuals own risk identifying risk appetite, setting risk strategy and management frameworks provided essential tools making difficult decisions about which products to enable us to take timely and informed decisions and businesses are likely to provide acceptable to maximise opportunities and mitigate potential risk-adjusted returns, with an acceptable capital threats.
I believe that our activities, as outlined in this requirement and level of confidence about their report, will provide you with a better understanding achievement, and to exit from all of those which of these frameworks, as well as providing some are not.
Many of the outcomes of this work are insight as to how we intend to build on these to discussed elsewhere in the Annual Report, while create better outcomes and fulfil the requirements others will only emerge over time as the Group of Solvency II.
Andrew Birrell We view risk not only as a threat or uncertainty, Group Risk and Actuarial Director but also as a potential opportunity to grow and develop the business, within the context of risk Old Mutual plc 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK and capItal management contInUed Objectives for the year ahead Achievements of 2009 and objectives We are committed to the continued development for the future of our risk management framework.
Old Mutuals In the following section we set out our progress over integrated Capital, Risk and Financial Transformation the past year and our objectives for the future, as we programme iCRaFT is at the heart of our objective instil risk management techniques to generate value.
to embed a culture of managing for value.
As a Achievements of 2009 business-owned initiative, rather than a risk and Events during the past year tested the ability of actuarial programme, iCRaFT will deliver positive financial sector participants to respond quickly to benefit to the Group, with the additional benefit of significant market shifts.
Old Mutuals capability full compliance with the requirements of Solvency has been evident in our response to the financial II.
We began the programme in April 2008 and it is crisis and the consequent events during 2009 intended to be fully delivered by October 2012.
Our which shook investor confidence.
We faced risks Financial Controls Initiative, now a project in its own head-on and came through stronger than before.
right since having become distinct from the Finance Our consistent Group-wide three lines of defence 2010 project, began implementation in 2008 and approach enabled us to quantify exposures quickly is intended to ensure that the information that we and, where appropriate, implement strategies produce for internal and external stakeholders is to mitigate levels of risk deemed to be beyond accurate and error-free, as a result of a thorough our appetite.
It is important to note that certain review of all processes and controls in producing risk exposures are still higher than we would like, such information and the application of best practice and that it is difficult to take action to reduce in financial controls.
Details of these projects are them immediately.
In these instances we have discussed later in this report.
implemented arrangements that allow us to monitor Accountability for risk management, and exposures continuously, implement proactive transparency of risk issues are crucial to our measures and ensure that they do not increase success.
Responsibilities for managing risk are further.
allocated to all managers within the Group and risk In March 2009 our Group Chief Executive set out management requirements have been embedded in the Groups strategic priorities.
One of these was our performance management programme.
to improve governance and risk management.
Ultimately the success of risk management will be The objectives of the Groups risk management determined by the extent to which it embeds in community were wholly aligned with this the corporate culture and leads to demonstrably requirement.
In the risk report contained in the better outcomes.
The Group Operating Model work, 2008 Annual Report and Accounts we stated our referred to in the Governance section of this report, risk management priorities for 2009 were to embed is designed to reinforce the governance structures the enhancements made to the risk management in place to support risk management across the system during 2008 and strengthen our risk Group, and the transparency of information flows.
During 2009 we have By setting minimum standards for business units taken significant strides in achieving those priorities, to adhere to, we aim to achieve consistency in our particularly in quantifying exposures, increasing approach across the Group.
the sophistication of the methodologies we use to balance risk, capital and return, and implementing three-year exposure determinations as part of our business-planning processes.
These processes ensure risk exposure levels are effectively monitored and managed in relation to the limits set.
Over the past year, Old Mutuals capital and liquidity positions have both strengthened substantially.
104 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 FocUSed on the FUtURe We continue to invest in our risk management iCRaFT will elevate capital, risk, financial and and controls framework.
The benefits will serve performance management methodologies, their to protect stakeholders better, deliver greater application and integration, to best practice efficiencies and ensure we continue to meet levels by the end of 2012. regulatory requirements, particularly Solvency It will deliver tangible benefits in four main areas: II.
To illustrate some of these investments, there Compliance with the EUs new regulation for follow details of two projects currently underway, insurance companies, Solvency II being iCRaFT and the Financial Controls Initiative FCI.
Enhanced oversight and risk management Launched in April 2008, iCRaFT is a key strategy Improved financial performance enabler and central to one of our strategic Enhanced external reporting of business priorities: to increase operational efficiency, activities.
strengthen governance and risk management.
Example 1 of Focused on the future iCRaFT in practice iCRaFT is a holistic approach to elevating capital, risk, financial and performance management, and their application and integration, to best practice levels by the end of 2012, while incorporating Solvency II and Basel II compliance.
We refer to this as a culture of managing for value.
Enablers Outcomes Objectives Integrated key business applications Measurement and methodology 1 Strategic 2 ALM & 3 Risk 4 Allocation of 1 Optimise upside 2 Contain and planning investment optimisation limits & risk Improved manage and capital management budgets financial downside allocation performance Improved oversight Operational implementation and active mitigation Solvency, Product External Performance Comply with Improve 5 6 7 8 3 4 liquidity & development communication management regulation external funding design, pricing & Pillar 3 & executive Comfortable perceptions Organisation and governance & underwriting disclosures compensation compliance with Enhanced Solvency II and relationship Basel II with external parties regulators rating agencies, etc Asset Liability Matching Old Mutual plc 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK and capItal management contInUed FocUSed on the FUtURe contInUed Solvency II will impact on products and capital The risk monitoring and reporting project focuses required and is expected to have significant impact on delivering enhanced oversight and reporting on the competitive landscape.
The profitability capabilities while ensuring closer integration of and capital intensity of business decisions and functions across the Group.
We are piloting an products will become more transparent.
However, application to give us a consistent operational compliance alone will not lead to sustainable risk monitoring and reporting process across strategic differentiation.
We have also started reporting more iCRaFT we are undertaking development work granular credit and counterparty exposures to to deliver a forward-looking view of integrated better understand our credit and counterparty risk and capital management linked to enhanced concentration risk across the Group.
application to facilitate this analysis will be delivered in 2010. iCRaFT will significantly change current business processes.
We have developed an end-state The performance measurement workstream is vision for the programme and completed successfully rolling out risk-adjusted performance a comprehensive review with each of the measures aligned with the way we view risk businesses to assess the size of the challenge management in the Long-Term Savings division.
we face in achieving this vision.
We have agreed Executive compensation for 2010 has been key design and solution decisions across the linked to risk-adjusted performance measures.
eight major business applications that the In order to ensure alignment between staff and programme addresses, and during 2009 we shareholders, the risk-adjusted metrics will also prioritised activities to ensure alignment with be the primary future driver of capital allocation, existing business activities.
As a result we have business performance measurement and commenced programme workstreams in key incentive pool determination.
business applications, including internal capital Going forward, we believe the investment in model development, and initiated work on the IT iCRaFT will bring a new level of maturity and architecture to support the end vision.
robustness to our risk management processes We made significant progress on these and internal controls.
Once complete, it will workstreams in 2009, even though the final give the Board improved tools for meeting its implementing measures for Solvency II were still responsibilities to shareholders by ensuring evolving rapidly.
For example, the internal capital that the Group is always operating to its target model development project has specified a best-practice standards.
detailed methodology, based on best practice, to Managing for value is at the heart of what be applied when calculating our risk-based capital iCRaFT is trying to achieve: it will show that while requirements under Solvency II.
We have selected Old Mutual must be prepared to take on risks, we a third-party software vendor to enable us to do will manage them in an integrated and consistent this and begun piloting the required applications.
way with proper care for our customers, shareholders and employees.
Example 2 of Focused on the future FCI aims to improve the quality of the information Managing the risk of errors in financial that we produce for internal and external statements: the Financial Control Initiative stakeholders and applies best practice in finance Our Finance function routinely seeks continual control.
The initiative has been led by the Group improvement in the quality, insight and timeliness of Finance Director, supported by dedicated teams financial information.
During 2009, in response to in our individual businesses.
It involves rolling the challenges of operating in increasingly diverse out risk identification, control monitoring practice and complex markets, we continued to implement and control activity reporting technology in the the Old Mutual Finance Control Initiative FCI.
50 Old Mutual reporting entities where most significant financial reporting risk resides.
106 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 FocUSed on the FUtURe contInUed FCI aims to increase risk awareness throughout will be embedded during 2010.
It requires identification of improvement of controls will ultimately facilitate better financial reporting risk, and improved ownership decision-making and enable more efficient finance and monitoring of the performance of controls processes, harmonised around best practice and a that are fundamental to our ability to produce small, well-defined set of key controls.
This project has required close co-operation between the Finance, Risk and Internal Audit functions.
While Finance employees have managed the implementation and Finance will remain accountable for financial reporting risk management, the project has been Finance implemented to integrate with Risk and Internal Audit practices and will supplement the work of Control the iCRaFT programme.
FCI has already enabled the Group to develop a clearer view of financial risk hotspots and develop remediation plans to safeguard the quality of information produced.
The FCI methodology The following sections set out our risk management Robust, evolving enterprise risk framework, illustrating each layer of tools and management systems provide us with assurance to manage the We believe effective risk management is more upside of risks better by maximising opportunities than just the collection and analysis of data.
while minimising the downsides, or threats.
In this It also encompasses the insights delivered by context, this section covers: information which facilitate appropriate actions.
Old Mutual benefits from having enhanced its Risk management governance Group risk management framework, which gives full Group oversight, including: Group-wide coverage of a variety of risks.
Strategy and business planning Our annual risk cycle is designed to give management relevant, up-to-date information from which trends can Risk appetite be observed and assessed.
The governance structure Stress and Scenario testing supporting our risk cycle is designed to deliver the right information, at the right time, to the right people.
Policy setting In line with the industrys increasingly sophisticated The risk framework employed by each of our management of risk, we continued to develop and business units to provide consistent information.
embed our risk appetite framework during 2009 particularly our risk appetite assessment techniques.
Risk management processes Group strategy and business planning Risk appetite limits and Policy setting Risk Risk and control Management Monitoring Risk Risk adjusted Capital identication assessments actions reporting performance allocation measurement Group oversight systems and tools Old Mutual plc 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK and capItal management contInUed Strengthening the risk management role within Risk Management Governance the business units by ensuring that each unit We strengthened our risk governance framework in has a Chief Risk Officer with direct access to the 2009 to encourage greater discipline, transparency Group Risk Director.
and discussion in relation to risk.
This involved consolidating our three lines of defence approach In this report, we focus on the responsibilities of the to provide greater solidarity within each of the lines.
two second line of defence committees illustrated Changes included: below, being the GERC and the GCMC.
The responsibilities and remit of the first and third line Reviewing and enhancing the Groups risk forums can be found in the Governance section of governance structure by strengthening the this report.
mandate of the Group Risk & Capital Committee GRCC, now renamed as the Group Executive Group Executive Risk Committee Risk Committee GERC The GERC was established in July 2008.
During 2009 it has proven to be a key decision-making Creating stronger risk and capital interactions and oversight body, proactively setting risk appetite between the key committees at Group level: limits, ensuring risk exposures are within established Group Executive Committee, the GERC, the parameters and overseeing the Group risk profile.
Group Capital Management Committee GCMC It has added value by overseeing the resolution and the Group Audit and Risk Committee, of Group issues in a timely and effective manner, clarifying the business unit mandate and ensuring both shortand long-term business authority to execute risk responsibilities strategy is in line with our agreed risk appetite.
effectively The GERC committee comprises senior Group executives, from Risk, Actuarial, Capital, Risk Governance framework Old Mutual plc Board Group Chief Group Finance Group Risk & Group Risk Group Audit Executive Director Actuarial Committee Committee Director Group Group Actuarial Risk Group Internal Group Executive Group Executive Audit Committee Risk Committee Group Capital Management Business Unit Chief Committee Executives Sub-committee of the Board Approvals Committee and Business Business Unit Audit provides input to Group Managers Committees Executive Risk Commi ttee Risk management Risk management Independent assurance 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence of 3rd line of defence First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence Daytoday risk management Oversight Independent verification Management and employees The risk community including Chief Group Internal Audit provides within each business Risk Officers, the Risk Management independent assurance are responsible for the Committees and specialist risk on the effectiveness of key identification, assessment, and management and compliance governance, risk management management and reporting of functions provides assurance that and internal control processes risk data risks are being appropriately managed across the business The Group Audit Committee and Group Risk Committee operated as one Committee in 2009, and will be separated in 2010 in line with the recommendations of the Walker review.
108 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Compliance, and Internal and External Audit.
Its In 2010 we expect the roles of these committees to main responsibility is to support the Group Risk and strengthen further, particularly in their interactions Actuarial Director in understanding and overseeing with business unit risk and capital committees.
the implementation of the Groups risk framework, Recommendations arising from the Walker Review including risk appetite and capital management.
of Corporate governance in UK Banks and other financial industry entities were published on The GERC key responsibilities are: 29 November 2009.
Old Mutual already has in Monitoring and reviewing the Groups risk profile place a number of the recommendations proposed including losses and control breakdowns by the Walker Review, such as the role of the Setting risk appetite limits, allocating these to the Board.
We anticipate further benefits as we adopt Groups respective business units to optimise the recommendations to implement a Board Risk results Committee, distinct from the Board Audit Committee, in April 2010.
The separation of the disciplines Providing assurance that effective risk will reinforce the risk culture and increase risk optimisation is being fully achieved both within specific challenge to the benefit of the organisation, business units and across the Group shareholders and other stakeholders.
The major Providing oversight of capital management to business units will mirror the Group governance ensure allocation is consistent with risk appetite structure through business unit level Board Risk limits.
The GERC receives reports from Group Risk These changes are incorporated into the wider and Actuarial, GCMC, Group Finance, Treasury Group Operating Model changes, details of and iCRaFT.
It provides input to the Group Executive which are included in the Governance section of this Committee and the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
The GERC works closely with the GCMC.
Group oversight approach Group Capital Management Committee Setting the tone from the top is important for us, The GCMC ensures that the Groups capital is providing the parameters within which we are able managed in a consistent manner, aligned to the to manage our capital and value objectives on a risk expectations of our shareholders, and that this sensitive basis.
Our oversight starts with the strategy capital is provided on the basis of the appropriate setting and business planning process.
These plans level of prospective return versus risk, as identified help us articulate our appetite for risk, which is then by the GERC.
It is the mechanism by which the set as risk appetite limits for each business unit Group ensures that capital is allocated to business to work within.
Group also set out parameters in units in line with the Groups strategy, and that policies for all business units to adhere to.
Details of appropriate return rates are set and monitored.
these tools are set out below.
If necessary it will reallocate capital where Strategy and business planning appropriate for greater reward.
Risk management is embedded in our business The GCMC committee comprises senior Group strategy and planning cycle.
Testament to this is the executives, including the Group Chief Executive, inclusion of risk management as one of our strategic Group Finance Director and the Group Risk and priorities.
By setting the business and risk strategy, Actuarial Director, along with representatives from we are able to determine appropriate capital Capital, Treasury, Strategy and Compliance.
allocation and target setting for the Group and each of our businesses.
The GCMC key responsibilities are: Recommending to the Board the Groups capital All business units are required to consider the risk allocation, capital structure and investment strategy implications of their annual plans.
As the following section highlights, these plans include analysis of the Setting an appropriate framework for managing impact of objectives on risk exposure.
Throughout capital the year, we monitor business performance regularly Issuing guidelines and or recommending targets focussing both on financial performance and risk to ensure the appropriate management of capital exposure.
The aim is to continue the process of within the agreed risk appetite limits.
integrating risk management into the planning and management process and to facilitate informed These committees support the second line of decisions.
Through ongoing review, the links between defence to ensure that the Group Executive risk appetite, risk management and strategic Committee maintains clear sight of the risk exposure planning are embedded in the business-as-usual and capital allocation across the Group to facilitate environment so that key decisions are made in the first line of defence decisions.
context of the risk appetite for each business unit.
Old Mutual plc 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK and capItal management contInUed Risk appetite limits Economic capital at risk ECaR Risk appetite provides us with a basis for formally Earnings at risk EaR reviewing and controlling business activities by Cash flow at risk CFaR setting boundaries that ensure that business Operational risk OpRisk activities are aligned to stakeholder expectations and are of an appropriate scale, relative to the risk and Financial Group Directive FGD surplus capital at potential reward.
In 2009 we required all business plans to include See panel below for definitions an analysis of risk appetite impact throughout the The embedding of our risk appetite methodology is 3 year plan period.
This increased transparency a cornerstone of our risk analysis capability.
Using highlighted where management actions have an one of the metrics as an example, our economic impact on our risk-adjusted performance, allowing capital calculations provide a long-term view of the us to maximise our risk-adjusted return and risks in the business and oversight of the key threats shareholder value.
Early identification of areas that facing the Group if an extreme event occurs.
ECaR could potentially breach limits has allowed the timely indicates the reduction in post-tax economic value formulation of action plans to avoid this.
broadly defined as market-consistent embedded Setting risk appetite limits for the businesses and value for life companies or IFRS equity for other measuring their exposure against those limits allows Group companies over a one-year forward-looking us, amongst other things, to: time horizon that should only be exceeded seven times in 10,000 years a 99.93% confidence level Allocate capital on a risk-adjusted performance consistent with our target A rating.
basis ECaR helps us to optimise risk-based decisions.
Consider risk-based pricing and product The stress test allows us to monitor overexposures development to set product pricing terms and and deepens our understanding of where the charging structures business could further improve its capital allocation.
Improve decisions regarding portfolio We have set appetite limits for economic capital management and optimisation.
based on the ratio of available financial resource This not only allows us to balance risk, capital and divided by economic capital.
return across the Group but also provides us with FCaR was added as a new risk appetite metric an enhanced understanding of the risks embedded during the year, measuring the potential reduction in our business.
It provides a framework for capital in FGD surplus capital in various adverse economic allocation decisions taken by the Group Capital scenarios.
We recognise that FGD is a key regulatory Management Committee.
measure which it is particularly important to Throughout the year, business units calculate their monitor in volatile economic conditions where our risk exposures against the appetite set by the policyholder and shareholder assets can significantly Group.
The five quantitative measures we use to impact our position particularly since we hold these express our risk appetite limits and exposures are: assets in a variety of currencies.
For further details on our FGD position throughout the year see page 287.
Risk appetite metric definitions Metric Definition ECaR The value of assets required to ensure that the business concerned can meet in full its obligations to policyholders and senior creditors at a 99.93% confidence level, which is the probability placed on a target A-rated bond not defaulting in the next year EaR The reduction in pre-tax IFRS adjusted operating profit over a one-year forward-looking time horizon following a 1 in 10 year loss event CFaR The reduction in the potential cash remittable to Old Mutual Group on a 1 in 10 year basis OpRisk The reduction in economic value due to 1 in 10 year operational loss events and expected day-to-day losses and reputational impacts FCaR The reductions in FGD surplus at the reporting date.
This is tested following both 1 in 10 years and once in 200 years loss events 110 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Risk appetite in action Setting risk appetite limits across the business has proved a valuable management tool.
For example, using the results produced by the risk appetite framework in 2008, Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa OMLAC SA concluded that there was excessive market risk in its business.
An action plan to reduce this exposure led to a transfer of shareholder assets from equities into cash and hedging of the remaining shareholder equity investments.
As a result, when equity markets in South Africa fell during late 2008 and 2009, OMLAC SA avoided any significant losses.
As the market started to recover OMLAC SA management considered unwinding the hedges to strive for greater possible upside.
However, calculating that this would breach its risk appetite, it elected to keep the hedges until they expired to ensure the downside was mitigated.
Stress and scenario testing Market Risk, New Product and Business Approval, We perform regular stress tests and sensitivity Capital and Treasury Risk and Business Continuity.
analysis to monitor the robustness of our regulatory Business units ensure that their local policies and capital position.
As an example of the stress and procedures are aligned to the Group policy testing undertaken, the following table shows suite.
In many cases business unit policies include the assumptions of testing performed to stress requirements beyond the Groups mandatory the reduction in FGD surplus from the 30 June minimum requirements and incorporate applicable 2009 balance sheet position in three different test local regulations.
The Group policies are mapped to scenarios.
our risk categorisation model and form a key part These assessments give management a view on the of our governance framework.
Their implementation capital that would be required if any of the scenarios allows the Group to establish a common framework became reality.
They help management to prepare of control across the business units.
for significant changes in the environment and Collectively known as the Group Policy Suite, these protect shareholders and investors from unexpected policies are agreed by the GERC and approved by loss.
Information on stress testing is reported to the the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
Once approved, GERC, and to management so that decision making policies are communicated to each business unit for is based on an understanding of potential impacts.
Every six months, business units must Policy setting provide an attestation to the Group on compliance Group policies set out our mandatory minimum with these policies.
requirements that business units must follow.
At the For further information on Group policies, see the end of 2009 there were 27 Group policies in place Governance section of this report.
covering a range of topics, including Liquidity Risk, Risk module Adverse scenario Recession scenario Inflation scenario Interest rate 0- 2Y -50% -60% 500% 2- 5Y -50% -60% 100% 5- 10Y -30% -50% 50% 10Y -15% -40% 40% Equities EEA, OECD -10% -40% 0% Equities other -20% -55% 0% Real estate -15% -25% 0% 1 1 1 Credit spread risk 25% of function 100% of function 0% of function Lapse risk 15% of surrender strain 15% of surrender strain 30% of surrender strain 1 Function is a formula that depends on rating and maturity of credit instruments.
Old Mutual plc 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK and capItal management contInUed The RCSA process incorporates: Consistent business unit risk Ongoing identification of risks that threaten the methodology achievement of objectives Supporting the planning cycle, risk appetite setting and stress testing, we use a number of risk management Assessing these risks in terms of financial tools to manage the identification, management and and qualitative impacts such as reputational, escalation of risk within the businesses.
All business regulatory or customer units adopt a consistent methodology ensuring that Determining whether the level of risk being taken information can be reviewed and analysed on a like-foris acceptable like basis.
The methodology employed by the business units includes: Determining and implementing management action plans to bring risk exposures to an Product development process acceptable level if required Risk categorisation Ongoing monitoring and reporting of risks, Risk and control self-assessment RCSA control effectiveness and actions.
Monitoring RCSA has strengthened our Group oversight and enhanced the flow of information resulting in Operational risk event data increased transparency, timely identification of risk Key risk indicators trends across the Group and control improvements.
The improved consistency of risk assessment in business units has enabled aggregation at a Group Product development process level to gain a much better informed picture of the Risk assumption frequently starts in the product overall Group profile.
development process, where new products are designed, priced, implemented on administration Monitoring systems and sold to customers.
The Board Operational risk event data implemented a centralised approval process for We have successfully improved transparency all products which may have implicit or explicit and data sharing by rolling out the formal loss guarantees, in order for product design to be data collection standards developed in 2008 for better understood and for aspects such as pricing, the operational and strategic risk categories and administration arrangements, marketing material and embedding them across the Group.
Standardisation investment requirements to be rigorously challenged of loss information across the Group has facilitated by an independent party.
The Group Risk & Actuarial early identification of trends leading to control Director is responsible for approving products which improvements, enhanced risk mitigation and contain guarantees.
Risk categorisation Our aim is to mitigate further operational risk events Since 2008, risk categorisation has promoted and that lead to losses, within reasonable expectations, established the consistent use of a common risk and to learn from all losses to improve processes language across the Group allowing meaningful and prevent recurrence.
aggregation and comparison of risks and issues The Group subscribes to a database outlining and enhanced risk reporting to the Audit and Risk significant operational losses experienced by other Committees and data sharing between business companies.
Data from this source helps us to take units.
We will review our categorisation model in the mitigating actions proactively, to avoid incurring coming months to ensure it is still appropriate in the similar losses.
Loss data collection has provided us with excellent Risk and control selfassessment RCSA ways to improve our customer experience.
This industry standard approach to identifying, For example, during 2009, we observed a assessing and controlling risk is used by our number of operational losses resulting from simple business units to consider all risks consistently.
By collecting data systematically Each business unit completes an RCSA regularly and consistently we have been able to pinpoint and escalates any significant new risks or issues to repetitive process failures and actively improve senior management immediately.
This gives Group controls in these areas.
This is an area that we are management an up-to-date view of risks and ensures now focusing on, to make rapid changes that will that decision-makers are aware of areas of concern provide a better customer experience and reduce promptly so that appropriate action can be taken.
112 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Key risk indicators KRIs Significant risks to Old Mutual KRIs provide data on whether a risk is trending up Old Mutuals weakness in certain business units in or down, or is stable, both now and in the future.
the past was caused by a combination of a small This acts as an early warning system, enabling number of poor investment decisions, insufficient management to take preventative action against the consideration of the volatility of certain guaranteed risk materialising.
products and executive short-term reward for sales growth in certain businesses resulting in incorrect During 2009 we identified KRIs against each long-term business decisions.
Although these of the Groups top risks.
We see KRIs as a vital instances were limited to a small part of the Group, step forward in making risk information more Old Mutual was not alone in this regard.
All financial transparent, and have begun data collection from service organisations were required to act quickly the business units.
In 2010 we will continue to in the recent tough environment.
Although these enhance these processes through trend analysis conditions brought many of these shortcomings and threshold setting.
to light, they have made it even more critical for Marketconsistent embedded value MCEV organisations to ensure they fully understand the In addition to the other tools described here, we risks they are taking on and the interdependencies use MCEV extensively as a tool for forward-looking between them in order to hold sufficient capital assessment and monitoring of risk in the Groups and liquidity to cover a combination of risks life insurance companies.
By analysing the source occurring at once.
of MCEV operating earnings we can assess where We do not only look at risk as presenting threats.
emerging experience is significantly different from They also present opportunities and are impacted expectations.
This allows senior management to by uncertainties.
When considering risk, we need identify emerging risks and trends and take remedial to consider not only the downside risk, but also the action where necessary.
The MCEV sensitivities potential upside in order to make the right decisions.
allow us to understand the impact of changes in economic, demographic and operating conditions The table alongside lists some of the most significant on the Groups embedded value.
Finally, the risks Old Mutual faced during 2009: market-consistent value of new business MCVNB provides information on the extent of investment risk that is embedded in new products.
For further information, see the MCVNB supplementary information on page 340 of this report.
KRI Examples: Related KRI risk type What it tells us Expense levels Business risk If trending up, the Groups costs will be higher than planned, actual v forecast which if not compensated by a rise in income will mean profits will be lower than forecast.
This trend will also show in increased exposure to business risk.
The indicator allows proactive analysis to identify the reasons for the increase in expenses and to put appropriate management actions in place.
Level % of voluntary Operational risk If trending up, this indicator can highlight a failure to retain turnover in key jobs key talent, which could mean recruitment costs are higher than planned and an increased exposure to this risk as key jobs are left vacant for a time.
The indicator allows analysis of the reasons for the leavers and facilitates actions to be put in place to prevent repetition.
Assets in excess Liquidity risk If trending down, this indicator provides Group with knowledge of local regulatory that the solvency position is worsening and the risk of capital requirements regulatory intervention is increasing.
The reasons for the reduction in surplus assets can be identified and management actions taken to ensure the trend does not continue.
Old Mutual plc 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK and capItal management contInUed SIgnIFIcant RISKS to the old mUtUal gRoUp Risk type Risk as a threat and uncertainty Mitigating actions and opportunities Credit risk The Group is exposed to the risk of credit defaults.
This Although in some instances it does not pay to take includes counterparty risk where an asset in the form of credit risk, there are situations when expected returns a monetary claim against a counterparty is not repaid mean that there are significant rewards for assuming in accordance with the terms of the contract.
also encompasses lending risk for example within our We monitor credit exposures and set limits in each banking businesses where a borrower may be unable to business unit, reducing our risk exposure by requiring repay amounts owed.
counterparties to have a specified credit rating.
Credit risk also arises from financial guarantees that We also check to ensure that we do not have a the banking businesses have to act upon where clients concentration of exposure to single issuers, sectors or default on their obligations with respect to the financial investment types.
Business risk We operate in a highly competitive environment.
If we We offer innovative products to suit different clients are not able to compete successfully there is a risk of and different client needs, enabling us to find reduced market share, revenues or profitability.
opportunities even in challenging market conditions.
We closely monitor lapse rates and persistency The profitability of our businesses could be adversely information, adapting our business approach affected by a worsening of economic conditions.
Old Mutual is diversified across Changes to the distribution environment for example geographies and product lines, minimising the impact through regulation or a failure of distribution providers of sector or territory-specific economic downturns.
could have an impact on our business.
We monitor developments in the distribution sectors This risk also covers the risk of terminations and across all geographies and our strategic planning and expenses being higher than expected, which would research teams help position us to reduce this risk.
prejudice product profitability and sustainability.
Market risk The risk of loss as a result of adverse changes in the The upside presented by market risk is evident when Interest market value of assets and liabilities.
This includes the equity values rise, or interest rates move favourably.
Equity risk of falling equity values or losses due to volatility in Then the Group is well positioned to gain over and Hedge asset values as well as the impact of changing interest above the benchmark, particularly in retail and Real estate rates, credit spreads and currency fluctuations.
institutional asset management products and activities, Credit spread since fee income will rise faster than associated Some of our life assurance businesses contain Foreign exchange expenses.
A reduction in interest rates and equity markets can cause more of Business units exposed to downside market risk as a these to be in-the-money, with a potentially adverse consequence of the liabilities they have underwritten impact on profit.
are required to take account of the structure of their asset and liability portfolios as well as the local regulatory environment and Group policy requirements.
Actions used by individual business units to manage market risk include asset liability matching, interest rate swaps and hedges to manage interest rate risk, equity hedges to manage equity risk and currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate currency risk.
114 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 SIgnIFIcant RISKS to the old mUtUal gRoUp contInUed Risk type Risk as a threat and uncertainty Mitigating actions and opportunities Liquidity risk The risk that available liquid assets will be insufficient We aim to maintain a prudent level of liquidity to meet changing market conditions, liabilities, funding consistent with regulatory expectations.
of asset purchases or an increase in client demands Our Group-wide liquidity policy sets out the for cash.
parameters within which all business units must operate in order to identify, measure and manage liquidity risk.
The Group Capital Management function reviews capital and liquidity positions, with the Group Risk Executive Committee providing additional oversight and challenge.
By monitoring our liquidity position prudently, we are well positioned to identify surplus liquid assets available.
Operational risk The risk arising from operational activities, for example Taking greater operational risk rarely gives the Group a failure of a major application, or losses incurred as a greater reward and therefore we aim to minimize our consequence of negligence or fraud.
operational risk exposure across the Group.
The Group is currently developing a strategic risk management system which will increase our understanding of the operational risks in the business and facilitate the improvement in the controls to reduce losses.
The Group has purchased a database of operational risk losses in other organisations, which ensures we are proactive in mitigating risks that have crystallised in other companies before they affect Old Mutual.
Operational risk is one of the metrics in our risk appetite framework and is monitored with actions taken if it approaches the limit.
Underwriting risk We are exposed to underwriting risk by issuing Our Group-level liability risk policy sets out the insurance contracts.
The business units which incur internal controls and processes that we must follow significant underwriting risk are Old Mutual Bermuda, in long-term and short-term insurance.
Business units Old Mutual Specialised Finance, Old Mutual Life have more detailed underwriting policies.
Actuarial Assurance Company of South Africa Limited, Nedgroup modelling is used to calculate premiums and monitor Life Assurance Company Limited and Old Mutual claims patterns.
The internal controls designed to Financial Life Insurance Company OMFLIC which mitigate operational risks help ensure that we feed provide long-term insurance and Nedgroup Insurance robust data into our models.
Analysis of MCEV plays Company Limited and Mutual & Federal, which provide a key role in ensuring we are managing these risks short-term insurance.
In respect of long-term insurance, the risk of loss is In banking, our risk management standards require caused by insurance claim frequencies and sizes being strict limits to be set in relation to underwriting limits, larger than expected.
This includes the risk of mortality and mandates the review of gross as well as net morbidity being higher than expected.
exposures, to understand the impact of hedge failure.
With short-term insurance the risk relates to an increased number of claims due to accidents or adverse weather conditions.
Old Mutual plc 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Ranked in order of significance to the Group based on economic capital figures.
RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK and capItal management contInUed Group risk profile The table below shows the significant risks to the Group, based on Group diversified economic capital.
Diversification accounts for risks within business units and between business units across the Group.
Old Mutual significant risks as a percentage of overall Group exposure Mutual & Federal Longterm shortterm US Asset Old Mutual savings Banking insurance Management Bermuda 1. Credit risk ll l Negligible Negligible 2.
Market risk ll Negligible l Interest Hedge and and equity equity ll 3. Business risk Negligible Negligible Negligible l 4.
Operational Negligible Negligible Negligible risk 5.
Underwriting N A N A risk Exposure to risk type but economic capital exposure less than 5% of Groups diversified total Significant or principal risk to Group, with economic capital exposure between 5% and 10% of Groups diversified total Significant or principal risk to Group, with economic capital exposure more than 10% of Groups diversified total Credit risk Counterparty Exposures by Sector Business units are responsible for establishing appropriate systems and governance structures Banks & Financial Services 30% to ensure that they actively monitor credit risk in a National & Local Government17 % manner consistent with the level of credit risk they Real Estate 7% face and in line with Group policies and principles.
Telecommunications Services 6% 31 December M ining 4% Business units are responsible for ensuring their 2009 Commercial Mortgage credit risk exposures stay within the risk appetite Backed Securities 4% Electricity 3% limits set by the Group.
Diversified Industrials 3% Other 26% Our in-house Risk Exposure Aggregation System REAS allows us to monitor Group-wide counterparty risk.
It aggregates nominal exposures The two main sectoral exposures are both driven by reported by the business units but does not the inclusion of Nedbanks banking book exposures: collect any VaR-related data such as probability As a bank, Nedbank inevitably has large of default.
In 2010, we will further enhance our exposures to the other South African banks: this oversight of Group credit risk by implementing a sector also includes the Skandia Money Market new counterparty exposure system through the Fund and the financial sector corporate bond iCRaFT project.
portfolio of the US Life business The new counterparty exposure system will facilitate The exposure to government debt includes a a VaR approach to setting Group-level counterparty substantial amount of South African government exposure limits as well as providing the concentration debt which Nedbank holds in respect of its risk capital requirement for the Groups internal reserve requirements.
It will also allow more timely and proactive monitoring of the additional risk arising from The main change in the sectoral exposures during the aggregation of counterparty exposures across 2009 has been a reduction in banking and financial different business units and geographies.
exposure, offset by an increase in government exposure.
This is a consequence of, inter alia, the The Group Executive Risk Committee monitors and proactive fide-risking of the US Life bond portfolio challenges accumulations of credit exposures across through a shift out of corporate bonds into the Group, arising due to same-name exposure held US Treasuries.
As at 31 December 2009, the Groups top exposures by sector are: 116 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Market risk embedded value reporting processes, which include Market risk is the risk of changes in the value of our assessments of the sensitivity of our capital position financial assets or financial liabilities arising from and embedded value to various market changes.
changes in equity, bond and real estate prices, credit Business risk spreads, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
A significant component of the regular management Market risk arises differently across the Groups information communicated at Group level relates to businesses depending on the types of financial ongoing measurement of the level of sales of each assets and liabilities held.
business, the level of expenses in that business Market equity risk is the most significant market against planned expenses and the expenses in risk type across the Group.
We monitor our market previous years, as well as the level of lapse and exposures for early identification and management surrender activity.
of these risks see the Risk appetite in action All new life assurance products with financial box on page 125 for further details.
We conduct guarantees within the Group are subject to separate analyses to understand the impacts on a rigorous approval process, culminating in both shareholder and policyholder assets.
the Group Risk and Actuarial Director either In respect of the investment of shareholder funds, approving or rejecting the product prior to it equity price risks are addressed in the Groups going to launch.
In all cases there are a series of various investment policies, which tightly limit the product development committees and stringent opportunity for business units to invest their own requirements which must be passed before the capital in equities or equity funds.
As a result, the new product can proceed to launch.
Many of these shareholder assets invested to back the statutory additional requirements have been introduced capital requirements across the Group are typically following experience relating to the Old Mutual invested in sovereign bonds and cash.
There is Bermuda Variable Annuity product.
All potential some remaining shareholder exposure to equity risks to the Group as a result of writing the new markets within OMLAC SA.
To mitigate the risk product are considered prior to the product being of falling equity markets adversely impacting the escalated to the Group Risk and Actuarial Director shareholder capital position, we use extensive equity for approval.
These risks include, but are not limited hedging.
We regularly evaluate the protection offered to: investment, expense, surrender, mortality and by the hedges that we operate in order to decide operational risk including reputational effects the appropriate level and extent of hedging that impacts.
An assessment of the cost of offering we need.
the financial guarantee is also included.
Extensive scenario and stress testing is undertaken for all new Sensitivities to adverse impacts of changes in product developments, so that the new business market prices arising in our insurance operations margin and market consistent value of new business are set out in the Old Mutual market consistent can be assessed under a range of different adverse embedded value supplementary-basis information scenarios, including a worst-case scenario as well section of this report see page 340.
We also evaluate all new product insurance operations, equity, property price, developments in light of our commitment to treat credit spread and interest rate risk are modelled customers fairly.
in accordance with the Groups risk-based capital practices, which require sufficient capital to be held Quarterly Business Reviews chaired by Group with in excess of the statutory minimum to allow us to each of the businesses, ensures regular dialogue manage significant exposures in line with the Group and oversight of business performance.
meeting business risk is monitored and, where appropriate, actions are agreed to mitigate negative Each of the Groups business units has its own trends.
MCEV is a particularly useful tool that is policies, principles and governance to manage used to monitor ongoing experience as it emerges.
its market risk in accordance with local regulatory For further details on MCEV, see page 340 of this requirements.
These are supplemented by report.
Group-level monitoring as part of the risk appetite framework.
The impacts of changes in market Insurance risk risk are monitored and managed using sensitivity The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing analyses, through the business units own regulatory insurance contracts under which it agrees to processes, with reference to the Groups risk compensate the policyholder or other beneficiary appetite framework, and by other means.
This work if a specified uncertain future event affecting the is complemented by the Groups market consistent policyholder occurs.
This risk includes mortality Old Mutual plc 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK and capItal management contInUed and morbidity risk in the LTS business and a risk The table below shows our key insurance risks along of loss from fire, accident and other sources in our with risk management actions within the LTS and short-term insurance business.
short-term insurance businesses: Key InSURance RISKS Risk Definition Risk management Underwriting risk Misalignment of policyholders to the appropriate pricing Experience is closely monitored.
For universal life basis or impact of anti-selection, resulting in a loss.
business, we can reset mortality rates.
Underwriting limits, health requirements, spread of risks and training of underwriters all mitigate the risk.
HIV AIDS risk Impact of HIV AIDS on mortality rates and critical illness Wherever possible we write products that allow for cover.
regular repricing or are priced to allow for the expected effects of HIV AIDS.
We require tests for HIV AIDS and other tests for lives insured above certain values: a negative test result is a prerequisite for acceptance at standard rates.
Medical Possible increase in annuity costs due to policyholders For non-profit annuities, improvements to mortality are developments risk living longer.
allowed for in pricing and valuation.
For with-profit annuity business, the mortality risk is carried by policyholders and any mortality profit or loss is reflected in the bonuses declared.
Changing financial Lower swap curves and higher volatilities cause A discretionary margin is added to the value of market conditions investment guarantee reserves to increase.
guarantees, determined on a market consistent risk stochastic basis and included in current reserves.
A partial hedge is in place South Africa.
Fewer and lower guarantees are typically provided on new business South Africa.
Policyholder Selection of more expensive options, or lapse and Experience is closely monitored, and policyholder behaviour risk re-entry when premium rates are falling, or termination behaviour is allowed for in pricing and valuation.
of policy, which may force the sale of assets at inopportune times.
Catastrophe risk Natural and non-natural disasters, including war and We have a catastrophe stop loss and excess of terrorism, could result in increased mortality risk and loss reinsurance treaty in place which covers claims payouts on policies.
from one incident occurring within a specified period between a range of specified limits.
Policy lapse risk Where policyholders have an option to terminate the Experience is closely monitored, and policyholder policy, this could force the sale of assets at inopportune behaviour is allowed for in pricing and valuation.
This creates the risk of capital losses and or reinvestment risk if market yields have decreased.
118 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Our insurance risk exposure is relatively low as we For more information on insurance risk, see p193 in effectively manage this through: the notes to the accounts.
Diversification of the business over several insurance Operational risk classes and a number of geographical segments Operational risk represents approximately 10% of our aggregate Group risk profile.
This risk could result in The relatively weak correlation of insurance risk losses from internal failures relating to processing, with our other risk types, which reduces our systems and people as well as losses relating to exposure after diversification external triggers such as flooding or retrospective Maintenance and use of management changes in legislation.
By its nature, operational risk information systems which provide current data is difficult to eliminate entirely.
But we aim to keep it on the risks to which we are exposed to a minimum and certainly within our risk appetite as we are unlikely to gain significant reward from taking Use of actuarial models to calculate premiums operational risk.
That is why operational risk is one of and monitor claims patterns using past the metrics in our risk appetite framework.
experience and statistical methods Our highest operational risk exposures arise within Guidelines for concluding insurance contracts LTS because of its size relative to the other divisions and assuming insurance risks, eg underwriting and business units, which are all currently within principles and product pricing procedures their operational risk appetite.
Reinsurance to limit our exposure to large single The Group RCSA process places responsibility claims and catastrophes directly onto line management for identifying, An effective mix of assets that back insurance monitoring and managing operational risk within liabilities based on those liabilities nature and term.
This is supplemented by the operational risk event identification and recording Reinsurance plays an extremely important role in the process which was embedded across the Group management of risk and exposure in our short-term in 2009.
The improvement in data will facilitate insurance business, Mutual & Federal.
The Group identification of areas where controls need to be makes use of a combination of proportional and more robust.
Identifying the level of losses in relation non-proportional reinsurance to limit the impact to a particular risk will start to help us assess of both individual and event losses and to provide more accurately the potential impact of any further insurance capacity.
occurrences and improve the accuracy of the RCSA Involvement in any property catastrophe loss is assessment.
Our management of risk will only be limited to approximately 6.3 million for any one effective if the RCSA and loss event recording drives event and the level of catastrophe cover purchased management action, often in the area of process is based on estimated maximum loss scenarios, re-engineering, to minimise the scope for recurrence.
in keeping with accepted market norms this is The RCSA process has helped us identify a based on a limit of R75 million for one event at an significant number of operational risks ranging from estimated exchange rate of R11.90 to the pound.
failures in our underwriting processes to the effects General insurance risk includes the following risks: of a pandemic on business operations.
These have been assessed and prioritised, and the principal Occurrence risk the possibility that the number operational risks we face are listed in the table on the of insured events will differ from those expected next page.
These are reassessed and monitored by Severity risk the possibility that the costs of the the GERC and Group Executive Committee at least events will differ from those expected quarterly.
Development risk the possibility that the One key factor in our future success will be our amount of an insurers obligation may change at ability to analyse the increased level of risk data the end of a contract period.
This is dependent on IT capability.
We recognise that now is the right time to review The majority of the Groups general insurance our risk management system to gain the greatest contracts are classified as short-tailed, meaning benefit and after much due diligence on a number that any claim is settled within a year after the of systems we have chosen Open Pages as our loss date.
This contrasts with long-tailed classes long-term strategic system.
The new system is now where claims costs take longer to materialise and in the development phase: roll-out starts in Q2 2010 settle.
Our long-tailed business is generally limited and is scheduled to complete in 2011.
We expect to personal accident, third-party motor liability and operational risk management to become increasingly some engineering classes: in total it comprises less robust throughout H2 2010 as the system embeds.
than 5% of an average years claim costs.
Old Mutual plc 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK and capItal management contInUed The main operational risks facing the group are: Key opeRatIonal RISKS Risk 2009 2009 Key description trend commentary mitigations Strategy change risk To manage these change initiatives, we We set new strategy in 2009, which This was identified as a appointed a Head of Strategic Implementation identified a number of change initiatives to principal risk by the Board and in February 2009 as part of the Group position the Group for sustainability and Group Executive Committee.
Executive Committee and set up a Strategic growth in the future.
It arises if the Group is unable Implementation Department to monitor and This risk is increasing due to the number to effect the necessary guide the strategic programmes.
As part of this of change initiatives that the Group is culture shift to implement its process regular progress reports are made to undertaking.
These were agreed and change initiatives effectively, the Group Executive Committee.
prioritised at the beginning of the year by in response to the changing the Group Executive Committee.
include iCRaFT and other projects to enable the consolidation of our LTS business into a single operating structure to unlock value.
To deliver these changes some 20 individual strategic implementation programmes have been set up to implement them in stages, spanning organisational, functional and geographic boundaries.
Regulatory risk This risk is increasing for the Group for a Old Mutual is well positioned to meet increased Regulatory requirements number of reasons.
and changes are increasing, 2009 market events have increased Dedicated Group and business unit compliance and are likely to continue to regulatory expectations across the industry, teams closely monitor new and changing do so over the time ahead: with particular emphasis on capital and regulatory developments and liaise regularly compliance with the new liquidity issues.
Solvency II requirements is due An increase in consumer activism in many The Group provides a co-ordination role in in 2012.
If we do not correctly of the jurisdictions where we operate is relation to the FSA, which is the lead regulator assess the impact of these resulting in challenges from consumers for Old Mutual plc under the Financial Groups changes or implement them in about whether business is conducted fairly.
a timely manner a fine, penalty or regulatory censure could As regulators have sought to understand The iCRaFT project is designed to deliver, as a result.
how businesses in their territory have minimum, all Solvency II requirements, as part responded to market falls and liquidity of an integrated business change programme.
pressure and as regulators respond to consumer pressure we have seen an increase in regulatory visits and interaction across the Group.
In Europe, Solvency II will challenge the industry to further enhance and integrate risk and capital models.
120 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Key opeRatIonal RISKS contInUed Risk 2009 2009 Key description trend commentary mitigations Processing risk Implementation of the operational risk We have established a number of Group Our businesses rely on event reporting process during 2009 has strategic implementation programmes their systems, operational highlighted that this risk is crystallising to review, evaluate and document key processes and infrastructure regularly.
This has led to a number of actions business processes, facilitating a thorough to help process numerous and improvements to the framework which understanding of the relationships between transactions daily across should embed and start to reduce losses these processes and highlighting areas where various different markets.
in 2010. process or control improvements are required.
With a large number of such The new risk management system that we are processes comes significant implementing in 2010 will categorise risks by operational risk arising from business process, enabling us to assess more breakdowns in the processes, readily the level of risk in each process.
human error or IT systems issues.
IT infrastructure The consolidation of our long-term savings We have established a Group strategic During 2009 a Group-wide business presents opportunities to further implementation programme to address IT benchmarking exercise enhance our IT infrastructure and exploit IT these issues and identify and implement IT identified some areas for synergies.
This work started in 2009. synergies across the Group.
This will be further improvement across our IT supported by the iCRaFT initiative, and will be The development of a number of Groupinfrastructure and control tested on the risk management system as one wide IT solutions has helped us carry out environment.
There is a risk of the initial Group-wide IT roll outs.
further work on the current infrastructure that if these are not completed and future IT strategy.
This is helping to within an appropriate timescale reduce risk in this area.
we could experience problems with the current IT systems.
HR risk During 2009 our turnover of key Group-wide management development This was identified as a management reduced.
Market conditions programmes and formal succession planning principal risk in 2008.
The and the reorganisation of the business are in place.
demand for staff in a number promoted stability and contributed towards We have established a Group strategic of key disciplines in the this reduction.
implementation programme to review industry has increased, remuneration across the Group.
This particularly driven by increasing will introduce more consistent practices regulatory change, which could and address the new FSA remuneration lead to Old Mutual employees requirements.
of undrawn committed facilities: this includes the Other risks impacting the group risk proceeds of a 500 million senior bond issued last profile October.
Liquidity risk Our liquidity position remains sound at both Group Financial Groups Directive surplus holding company and business unit level.
The Group As part of the Groups regular and ongoing risk holding company is funded through a combination appetite submissions, business units are asked to of internal cash resources and undrawn bank credit assess the impact of various adverse scenarios on facilities.
Business units liquidity needs are met from their statutory surplus and ultimately their FGD surplus.
their own internal resources, and where appropriate, This allows the Group to quickly identify those drivers either locally arranged external lines or funding lines key to maintaining the target level of FGD surplus.
Management has access to a heat map which allows continuous monitoring of the surplus position in our In aggregate the Group has 1.2 billion liquidity changing economic environment.
headroom, comprising 447m of cash and 773m Old Mutual plc 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read Ranked in order of significance to the Group based on economic capital figures.
RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK pRoFIle by Segment Long-Term Savings LTS longteRm SaVIngS ltS RISK pRoFIle Operational Credit Market Business equity & interest Our LTS businesses represent a significant part of LTS has an inherent resilience against specific the Groups earnings and capital see the segmental risks because its product and geographic diversity disclosures in this report and the aggregation of spread risk across its various businesses.
The Group the primary risks to Old Mutual is naturally greatest exposures within LTS break down as follows: within this segment.
The most significant risks in LTS overall are business, market equity and interest and credit risk.
LTS exposures as a percentage of overall group exposure South Africa and Emerging Wealth Retail Markets Management Nordic Europe US Life Business risk l l Market equity l l risk Credit risk Negligible Negligible ll Operational risk Negligible Exposure to risk type but economic capital exposure less than 5% of Groups diversified total Significant or principal risk to Group, with economic capital exposure between 5% and 10% of Groups diversified total Significant or principal risk to Group, with economic capital exposure more than 10% of Groups diversified total LTS business risk maintenance costs increasing above pricing Business risk is the risk that the LTS business assumptions, resulting in losses as policyholder performance will be below plan and therefore charges fail to cover the ongoing costs of negatively impact on earnings and capital.
Early surrender of policies can also The drivers that could result in this include negative crystallise unrealised losses for portfolios where variances in new business volumes, new business market values are trading below book values or margins, lapse experience and expenses.
up-front commissions not fully earned by distributors cannot be recouped.
Within the Group, we examine Lapse risk includes the risk that policyholders the impact on earnings and capital by stress testing surrender their policies earlier than expected, both increased and decreased lapse rates in order resulting in capital strains.
If large numbers of to understand these impacts.
policies lapse, the business is exposed to losses on up-front commissions, and also to per-policy 122 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK pRoFIle by Segment Lower than anticipated new business volumes varies according to the type of contract.
Where can lead to acquisition expense overruns, resulting contracts are related purely to longevity, mortality in reduced earnings and shareholder capital.
and morbidity risk, there is typically no sharing of By contrast, significantly higher than expected new better-than-expected or required investment returns.
business volumes can consume large amounts of Under unit-linked and or market-linked contracts, capital and may risk capital strain.
Within the Group, policyholders receive the full investment return on we examine the impact on earnings and capital the underlying assets, less any applicable fees, and by stress testing both increased and decreased the only residual market risk relates to the fluctuation new business volumes in order to understand in asset-based fees as a result of fluctuations in the these impacts.
Business risk is particularly significant as a In most other classes of investment-related proportion of total risk, in respect of the Groups contracts, investment returns are attributed to, unit-linked and asset management businesses, or shared with, policyholders, in the form of vesting where there are few other significant risks relating to and or non-vesting bonuses.
Non-vesting bonuses market, credit or insurance risk.
Hence these risks offer an option for management action, as they can comprise a large proportion of total risk in Wealth be withheld in adverse circumstances.
Management, Nordic and Retail Europe.
While these Smooth bonus products constitute a significant risks are also important in US Life and South Africa & proportion of South African business.
We pay Emerging Markets, they represent a lower proportion particular attention to declaring bonuses in a of overall risk, given the market and credit-related responsible manner, retaining sufficient reserves to risks in US Life, and the market-related risks in meet our promise to clients that returns will be less South Africa & Emerging Markets.
volatile over time than purely market-linked returns.
We have a number of mitigating actions in place to Investment returns not distributed after deducting monitor and contain business risk.
charges are credited to bonus-smoothing reserves, which are used to support subsequent bonus During 2009 we took significant actions to reduce declarations.
the cost base of all Group companies, particularly the Skandia UK and US Life businesses.
This For discretionary participating business underwritten was also a major driver behind the recent Group in South Africa, there are well-established restructuring as we aim to give scale to our Retail management actions.
Principles and Practices of Europe businesses by combining them into a Financial Management clearly set out how risks and single unit.
In addition, our ongoing platform surpluses are shared, how bonuses are declared, strategy should ultimately result in cost savings.
and how these classes of businesses are managed The changes in the US Life business were made in including the management actions that will be the first four months of 2009, and the risk reduction taken in adverse conditions.
These actions are was quickly evident in the half-year economic sanctioned and signed-off by the OMLAC SA Board capital calculations.
and are disclosed to the Financial Services Board of South Africa, OMLAC SA s regulator.
Within the US Life business we took significant steps to control the impact of lapses on the In South Africa the stock selection and investment crystallisation of unrealised losses by building up analysis process is supported by a well-developed significant cash holdings.
These enabled us to research function.
For fixed annuities, we manage withstand a temporary increase in terminations in market risks where possible by investing in the first half of the year without having to crystallise fixed-interest securities with a duration closely losses in the investment portfolio.
A combination corresponding to those liabilities.
Market risk on of a normalisation in terminations over the second policies that include specific guarantees and where half of the year and a reduction in corporate bond shareholders carry the investment risk resides spreads reduced the risk and quantum of potential principally in the OMLAC SA guaranteed non-profit investment losses, which in turn allowed US Life to annuity book, which is closely matched with gilts, reduce its cash holdings.
This is part of the ongoing semi-gilts and high quality corporate bonds.
Other monthly activity of the US Life Oversight Committee.
non-profit policies are also suitably matched, based on comprehensive investment guidelines.
Market We also run a number of incentive programmes to risk on with-profit policies, where investment risk is encourage lower surrender levels in the business.
shared with investors, is mitigated by appropriate LTS market risk bonus declaration practices.
The extent of the Groups discretion as to the allocation of investment return to policyholders Old Mutual plc 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK pRoFIle by Segment contInUed In US Lifes fixed annuities, policyholder option risk is Real estate risk for the Group is low compared managed by investing in fixed securities with durations with other risk categories.
It is noteworthy only within a half-year of the duration of the liabilities.
Cash in the OMLAC SA business where a portion flows in any period are closely aligned to ensure any of policyholder funds is invested in real estate to mismatch is not material.
In addition, we carry out generate outperformance and diversify the asset extensive interest rate scenario testing, as required portfolio and in Nedbank, where real estate assets by US regulatory authorities, to ensure that the are held as collateral backing mortgage loans on amounts reserved are sufficient to meet the guarantee residential and commercial real estate.
The guaranteed returns provided under LTS credit risk equity-indexed annuities are hedged to ensure a close The US Life business is exposed to credit risk by matching of option or futures pay-offs to the liability the substantial corporate bond holdings and asset growth.
Hedging is largely static with minimal trading.
backed securities within its investment portfolio.
Variable annuities are no longer written and for those The risk relates not only to defaults or impairments policies in force the guaranteed returns provided but also to the possibility of widening credit spreads are dynamically hedged.
Hedging positions are adversely impacting the market value of the reviewed daily and readjusted as necessary.
In our US investment portfolio.
All these risks may create a businesses we include an assessment of our ability liquidity need to bridge the gap between benefits to hedge market movements and the effectiveness of payable on termination and realisable asset values.
Hedge ineffectiveness We actively monitor and manage the US Life portfolio risk is the risk of underperformance of the hedge to mitigate credit risk.
We appointed a new Chief assets in comparison with the associated liabilities, in Investment Officer in US Life, who has significant respect of the components that we hedge.
This can credit management experience.
During 2009 we took arise from less than complete hedging, such as failure action to rebalance the composition of the US Life to hedge higher-order derivative measures and from investment portfolio.
At the year end, the investment non-hedgeable items such as basis risk.
grade of the portfolio has improved although we Within OMLAC SA and US Life, reductions in continue to have an over-exposure to corporate interest rates can lead to an increase in the value bonds.
There has been substantial improvement of investment guarantees and options given to in unrealised losses on the portfolio, which as of policyholders, causing a reduction in earnings and 31 December stands at $497 million, down from shareholder capital.
We undertake regular and $2,844 million in March 2009.
We expect to see ongoing activity related to interest rate and equity continued improvement in this area during 2010. hedging to mitigate this risk.
US Life: Composition of the investment portfolio $m 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Treasury Agency 505 351 CMBS RMBS ABS 2,900 3,739 Corporate bonds 11,947 9,682 Cash short-term 839 1,218 Total investments & securities 16,191 14,990 124 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 In other business units, shareholder credit-related to customers in Sweden and Norway.
Its lending exposure is predominantly relevant sovereign debts.
portfolio has been built on sound lending practices and mostly 95% comprises mortgages with We are currently enhancing the process and excellent creditworthiness and low loan-to-value systems infrastructure that support aggregation of ratios 38% at December 2009 : the residual credit exposures as part of the iCRaFT programme exposure 5% is comprised of unsecured loans.
to ensure they are fully Solvency II compliant, with a The bank has strong liquidity and was consequently target completion date of Q1 2010. only marginally affected by the market turbulence In line with Scandinavian market practice, in 2009.
Its credit loss ratio credit losses as SkandiaBanken Skandia Nordics banking arm a percentage of the opening lending balance provides a full-range online retail banking service remained low at only 0.14%.
Businesses outside Group risk appetite: US Life and Old Mutual Bermuda Measured against the risk appetite limits set by the The Oversight Committees have also been Group Executive Risk Committee and ratified by directly involved in making decisions relating the Group Executive Committee, all the Groups to the closure of unprofitable product lines and businesses are within the Groups appetite except those deemed to be excessively risky relative for US Life and Old Mutual Bermuda.
It is worth to the Groups risk appetite noting that: We monitor Old Mutual Bermudas hedging Both these business units are managing and related risks daily, and the company has their positions to reduce the risk in their been closed to new business to prevent any business gradually, within their capabilities and increase in guarantee exposures brought on by minimising loss of value growing the Variable Annuity book.
Over time we expect exposures to reduce significantly An Oversight Committee has been established as policies mature and roll off the book.
for each business to monitor risk exposures, We continue to monitor hedging activity closely help to optimise risk-taking within the business on both an actual and notional basis and track progress monthly.
The Committee members include the Group Risk and Actuarial In September 2009 the decision was taken Director, the Group Finance Director and to progressively and selectively remove relevant executives from the companies the majority of the hedge positions on this concerned business.
This decision was taken in light of rising markets globally, which increased Credit risk is actively managed in US Life, the liquidity risk inherent in our short futures to improve the quality of the investment strategy and reduced market risk and our portfolio holdings while trying to avoid realising improved capital position which allowed us to large losses by trading out of securities with better absorb fluctuations in guarantee costs.
significant unrealised losses at inopportune It also helped us save on substantial hedging times: we have made significant progress in costs at a time of rising markets.
We continue achieving this to monitor our notional hedge as rigorously Asset liability management has also been as we would monitor any hedge which was improved, with significant effort being spent actually in place, and therefore should markets on identifying the assets appropriate to begin to fall again we are in a position to different product lines and ensuring investment replace protection rapidly.
It is likely that we will strategies match the profile of those liabilities maintain a dynamic approach towards hedging in this business, by varying the extent of hedges over time based on market conditions.
Old Mutual plc 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK pRoFIle by Segment contInUed Banking banKIng RISK pRoFIle Credit Market Business Operational equity Nedbank manages credit risk exposures through NEDBANK its credit risk management framework, which Banking credit risk encompasses comprehensive credit policies, limits, As our primary banking business, Nedbank carries governance structures and internal risk models that a substantial proportion of our credit risk through are fully Basel II compliant and in line with Group its lending and other financing activities it should policies and practices.
To address the changing be noted that, due to the nature of its investment conditions impacting on credit risk this year, portfolio, US Life also retains a significant proportion Nedbank has: of our credit risk.
Closely monitored credit risk loss ratios and Nedbanks financing activities contribute to other key indicators through its credit risk its significant credit risk exposure.
We expect monitoring committees impairment levels to remain stable or even start to reduce during 2010.
This is due to a number Tightened credit granting criteria: for example of factors, including a slowdown in lending, the on home loans it has tightened loan-to-value introduction of tighter lending criteria and the criteria, increased acceptance standards and stabilisation of economic conditions.
where appropriate restructured credit risk agreements Nedbank maintains a well diversified funding deposit base supporting a strong loan to deposit ratio.
Tightened controls over large payments to and Nedbank has remained focused on attracting its from global banks share of the deposit base.
The bank continues to Increased staff to administer collections.
pursue opportunities to lengthen and diversify its funding base, maintaining a strong regional presence Banking market risk with little reliance on foreign funding.
The bank The principal market risks in the Groups banking also has an immaterial reliance on securitised and operations arise from: interbank funding facilitated by a strong retail and Trading risk in Nedbank Capital commercial deposit base.
Banking book interest rate risk from repricing Nedbank has cultivated and embedded a prudent and or maturity mismatches between on and and conservative risk appetite, primarily focused off-balance sheet components in all banking on the basics of banking in southern Africa.
is illustrated by a number of factors including conservative credit underwriting practices which We use a comprehensive market risk framework have culminated in a high-quality, well collateralised to ensure that market risks are understood and wholesale book as well as further tightening of managed.
Governance structures are in place credit criteria in our retail book in anticipation of the to achieve effective independent monitoring and economic downturn.
This has resulted in Nedbanks management of market risk.
reasonable credit concentration risk levels in relation Nedbank has a low level of assets and liabilities to the South African market, with counterparty credit exposed to the volatility of IFRS fair value risk being restricted to non-complex, vanilla banking accounting: a small market trading risk in relation transaction.
to total bank operations: relatively low banking book interest rate risk by international standards 126 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 and low equity investment risk exposure, having analysis and point-in-time interest income stress successfully completed the non-core asset testing for parallel interest rate moves over a disposal strategy in 2007.
Nedbank has low forward-looking 12-month period.
currency translation risk due to its strong regional Banking Business risk focus and its relatively small offshore structure is Business risk is the risk of adverse outcomes deemed appropriate and optimal, given its current resulting from a weak competitive position or from a international strategy.
poor choice of strategy, markets, products, activities The Groups capital adequacy ratios increased or structures.
Major potential sources of business significantly in 2009 and continued to be maintained risk include revenue volatility, owing to factors such above the groups target ratios.
Ongoing focus will as macro-economic conditions, inflexible cost be given to increasing Core Tier 1 capital and the structures, uncompetitive products or pricing, and Tier 2 regulatory capital remains well diversified with structural inefficiencies.
no maturing subordinated debt until 2011.
The South African economy has emerged from Trading risk recession in the third quarter of 2009, posting only We measure market risk exposures from trading modest growth over the quarter, but the recovery activities at Nedbank Capital using value-at-risk gained some traction in the final quarter of 2009 as VaR, supplemented by sensitivity analysis and real GDP grew by 3.2%.
The improved performance stress-scenario analysis, and set limit structures was mainly due to a rebound in manufacturing accordingly.
exports on the back of strong demand for commodities from China and a modest recovery in The VaR measure estimates the potential loss most major industrialised countries.
However, some in pre-tax profit over a given holding period for a segments of the domestic economy are still under specified confidence level.
The methodology is a significant strain.
, probability-based approach that takes into account market volatilities as well as risk In the short term, the recovery is expected to diversification by recognising offsetting positions and continue to be hampered by high unemployment correlations between products and markets.
Risks and high household debt levels resulting in a can be measured consistently across all markets and protracted recovery in retail banking.
While products, and risk measures can be aggregated to wholesale banking, which has been resilient, even arrive at a single risk number.
The one-day 99% VaR at the peak of the interest rate cycle, is showing number used by Nedbank represents the overnight increased signs of credit stress, the Groups own loss that has less than 1% chance of occurring under experience is still within expected and acceptable normal market conditions.
By its nature, VaR is only levels.
a single measure and cannot be relied upon as a The fluctuations in earnings captured in business means of measuring and managing risk on its own.
risk are those not attributable to the influence of Banking book interest rate risk other risk types.
The major driver or input used in This arises at Nedbank because: the earnings-at-risk methodology is a time series of historical profit and loss, cleansed of the effects of The bank writes a large quantum of prime-linked other risk types.
The volatility of this time series of assets and raises fewer prime-linked deposits historical profits and losses becomes the basis for Funding is prudently raised across the curve the measurement of business risk.
at fixed-term deposit rates that reprice only on Nedbanks operational risk strategy and objectives maturity are in line with the Basel II framework.
Nedbank will Short-term demand-funding products reprice to apply for regulatory approval to transition its current different short-end base rates operational risk management framework capabilities from the Standardised Approach to the Advanced Certain ambiguous maturity accounts are Measurement Approach in 2010. non-rate-sensitive Nedbank Group actively manages business risk The bank has a mismatch in net through the various management structures, as set non-rate-sensitive balances, including out in the Enterprise Risk Management Framework, shareholders funds, that do not reprice for and an earnings-at-risk methodology similar to the interest rate changes Groups risk appetite metrics.
Nedbank uses standard analytical techniques to measure interest rate sensitivity within its banking book.
This includes static reprice gap Old Mutual plc 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read RISK and ReSponSIbIlIty RISK pRoFIle by Segment contInUed The guaranteed returns provided under Mutual & Federal equity-indexed annuities are hedged to ensure a For Mutual & Federal, the second-largest short-term close matching of option or futures pay-offs to any insurer in South Africa, underwriting risk is the liability growth.
Hedging is largely static with minimal primary concern.
Adverse weather patterns and trading.
large numbers of commercial fires impacted our underwriting profitability in the first half of the Variable annuities are no longer sold, and for in year, but the recovery in the second half reflected force policies, the guaranteed returns provided are the fundamental soundness of our portfolios, dynamically hedged.
We review hedging positions our diligence in rate setting and our continuing daily to readjust them as necessary.
We include adherence to responsible underwriting standards.
an assessment of our ability to hedge market movements and the effectiveness of these hedging The potential sale of Mutual & Federal by the programmes.
Hedge ineffectiveness risk is the risk Old Mutual Group caused uncertainty in the business of hedge assets underperforming in comparison during 2009.
This was coupled with the environmental with the associated liabilities.
This can arise from challenges facing the industry and challenging internal less than complete hedging, such as failure to projects, such as introduction of a single insurance hedge higher-order derivative measures and from administration system.
The decision to make Mutual non-hedgeable items such as basis risk.
The & Federal a wholly owned subsidiary of Old Mutual ongoing monitoring of hedge activity in Old Mutual provided confidence to the local team.
In 2010 Bermuda ensured that the effectiveness in respect of management focus is on stabilising the operating components hedged averaged 96% over 2009. platform and responding to changes within the market to continue to offer growth, profitability and value to Old Mutual Bermuda remains outside our Group risk clients.
appetite and is being actively managed to mitigate losses.
For further details of the action we are taking US Asset Management to mitigate risk in Old Mutual Bermuda, please see Since this is an asset management business, market page 125. volatility presents the greatest risk.
We conduct our asset management activities in an agency capacity, Summary hence clients take both the upside and downside Old Mutual has made considerable progress in risk in their portfolios.
Our asset management 2009 in effectively managing risk and capital in order affiliates are exposed to a second-order risk in to create value.
This is a particular achievement respect of their asset-based management fees given the past years volatility in financial markets.
Over the year, we Our progress is due to the continued focus felt the impact of the financial crisis in a lower on group wide risk management through our level of asset-based fees and substantially lower Strategic priorities and iCRaFT programme.
The risk environment will continue to evolve, and we embrace this journey.
We are developing and Old Mutual Bermuda implementing further tools to allow us to optimise Legacy business business decisions and take a forward-looking view In Old Mutual Bermuda, reductions in interest rates of integrated risk and capital management.
can cause more of the investment guarantees and options within its deferred annuity business to be The Board believes that current capital and in-the-money, reducing earnings and shareholder liquidity levels are adequate for a Group of our capital.
We maintain regular interest rate hedging size and nature.
It also confirms that the Groups activity to mitigate this risk.
internal systems of control, risk management and governance have operated as intended during 2009 and are therefore effective.
128 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
