GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 - 42 10 12 09 16:02 Page 40 Principal risks and uncertainties There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which Operational risk could have a material impact on the Groups performance and The activities of the Group subject it to operational risks relating could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and to its ability to implement and maintain effective systems to historical results.
The Groups system of risk management, which process the high volume of transactions with customers.
includes risk review and an active internal audit function, is A significant breakdown of the IT systems of the Group monitored by the Audit and Compliance Committee as described might adversely impact the ability of the Group to operate its in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report on business effectively.
To address these risks, the Groups internal audit function carries out targeted reviews of critical systems to ensure that they remain The principal risks to which the Group is exposed include adequate for their purpose.
The Group has a Business Continuity the following: plan, which is kept under regular review and is designed to ensure that any breakdown in systems would not cause significant disruption to the business.
Economic environment Further deterioration in the general economy may adversely Competitor risk affect all aspects of the Groups business.
Adverse economic conditions might increase the number of borrowers that default The Group faces strong competition in all of the core markets in on their loans, which may increase the Groups costs and could which it operates.
There is a danger that its profitability and or result in losses on some of the Groups assets.
market share may be impaired.
The general economic factors affecting the Group in the period To mitigate this risk the Group maintains relationships with its going forward, together with the steps taken by the Groups customers, business introducers and other significant participants management to address these issues are described in more detail in the markets in which it is active, as well as being active in in the Chairmans statement on pages 5 to 6 and the Chief industry-wide organisations and initiatives.
This enables Executives review on pages 7 to 11. market trends to be identified and addressed within the relevant business strategy.
Changes in interest rates may adversely affect the Groups net income and profitability.
The steps taken by the Group to mitigate against the long term effects of interest rate movements, through Governmental, legislative and regulatory risk the structuring of its products and the use of hedging procedures are described in note 6 to the accounts.
The market sectors to which the Group supplies products, and the capital markets from which it has historically obtained much of its funding have been subject to intervention by Government and Credit risk other regulatory bodies.
To the extent that such actions disadvantage the Group, when compared to other market As a primary lender the Group faces credit risk as an inherent participants, they present a risk to the Group.
component of its lending activities.
Adverse changes in the credit quality of the Groups borrowers, a general deterioration in UK In order to mitigate this risk the Group has been active in economic conditions or adverse changes arising from systematic explaining its position to the authorities in order that it is not risks in financial systems could reduce the recoverability and inadvertently disadvantaged.
value of the Groups assets.
The Groups approach to the management of credit risk and the systems in place to mitigate that risk are described in the section of note 6 to the accounts entitled Credit Risk.
40 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 - 42 10 12 09 16:02 Page 41 C Management The success of the Group is dependent on recruiting and retaining skilled senior management and personnel.
The Groups employment policies, which are designed to ensure that an appropriately skilled workforce is, and remains, in place are described within the Corporate Social Responsibility section of this Annual Report on page 19.
Working capital The Groups capital position and its policies in respect of capital management are described in note 5 to the accounts.
These policies and their application are described more fully in the section of the Chairmans Statement headed Capital Management on page 5.
Financial risk The Groups exposure to other financial risks, including liquidity risk and foreign currency risk, and the procedures in place to mitigate those risks are described in detail in note 6 to the accounts.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 41
