Directors report: Business review 38 The group has a rigorous risk management framework.
This is designed to identify the risks that could adversely impact the Risks delivery of the groups strategic aims and to ensure that adequate controls and procedures are in place to mitigate the risks.
The groups risks, together with the controls and procedures in place to mitigate the risks, are as follows: Risk Definition Controls and procedures The risk that the group will suffer loss Customers Credit risk in the event of a default by a customer CCD and Vanquis Bank credit committees set policy and review credit performance.
CCD home credit loans are underwritten face-to-face by agents in the customers home: or bank counterparty.
A default occurs agents maintain weekly contact with the customer and stay up to date with their when the customer or bank fails to circumstances: agents commission is based on collections not credit issued: application honour repayments as they fall due.
and behavioural scoring is used to assist agents underwriting: home credit issues short-term, small sum loans, with average issue values of between 300 and 500 typically repayable Customer defaults in the non-standard over one year: direct repayment loans are underwritten in the home with the use of external market are typically higher than in bureau data.
In addition, Vanquis Bank uses highly bespoke underwriting including full external bureau data: the current economic climate has led a telephone interview is conducted prior to issuing credit: initial credit lines are low to increased impairment levels in the typically 250 : customers are re-scored monthly: an intensive call centre-based credit market generally.
operation focuses on collections: underwriting and credit line increases have been tightened progressively since the middle of 2007 in light of economic conditions.
Comprehensive daily, weekly and monthly reporting on KPIs.
Bank counterparties A board approved policy is in place for bank counterparties.
Transactions are only undertaken with high quality counterparties.
Exposures to counterparties are linked to their credit rating and regulatory capital requirements.
See pages 88 to 89 for more commentary on credit risk.
The risk of loss arising from a breach A central in-house legal team is in place which monitors legislative changes and Regulatory of existing regulation or regulatory supports divisional compliance functions.
risk Expert third party legal advice is taken where necessary.
changes in the markets within which Divisional compliance functions are in place which manage compliance and report the group operates.
There is constructive dialogue with regulators.
The current volatile economic Full and active participation in all relevant regulatory review and consultation environment has resulted in greater processes in the UK and EU.
focus on regulation, with an increase in the level of scrutiny placed upon participants in the broader banking and consumer lending market.
The risk that the group will have A board approved policy is in place to maintain committed borrowing facilities Liquidity risk which provide funding headroom for at least the following 12 months.
insufficient liquid resources available to Liquidity is managed by an experienced central treasury department.
fulfil its operational plans and or meet There is daily monitoring of actual and expected cash flows.
its financial obligations as they fall due.
The group borrows long and lends short meaning that the duration of the receivables book is significantly less than the average duration of the groups funding.
Credit markets have been significantly 250m 10-year senior public bonds issued in October 2009 and syndicated bank disrupted since the second half of facilities extended in February 2010.
2008 making it more challenging for Headroom on committed facilities of 331.0m as at 31 December 2009. companies to obtain funding.
See page 89 for more commentary on liquidity risk.
The risk that an event or circumstance Dedicated teams and established procedures are in place for dealing with media issues.
Reputational could adversely impact on the groups A pro-active communication programme is targeted at key opinion formers and is risk co-ordinated centrally.
reputation including adverse publicity Regular customer satisfaction surveys are undertaken.
from the activities of legislators, The group invests in a centrally co-ordinated community programme.
pressure groups and the media.
The risk that there may be insufficient The groups pension asset stands at 19.9m as at 31 December 2009.
Pension risk assets to meet the liabilities of the The defined benefit pension scheme was substantially closed to new members from 1 January 2003. groups defined benefit pension Cash balance arrangements are now in place within the defined benefit pension scheme.
scheme to reduce the exposure to improving mortality rates.
The pension investment strategy ensures that there is an appropriate balance of assets between equities and bonds.
New employees are invited to join the groups stakeholder pension scheme which carries no investment or mortality risk for the group.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Business review Risks 39 continued Risk Definition Controls and procedures The risk of loss resulting from IT systems Operational inadequate or failed internal IT is managed in CCD and Vanquis Bank by experienced teams.
risk There are established disaster recovery procedures which are tested on a regular basis.
Specialist project teams are used to manage change programmes.
Insurance policies are in place to cover eventualities such as business interruption, loss of IT systems and crime.
Health and safety Significant time and expenditure is invested in ensuring staff are safety conscious.
Assistance is given to agents to ensure that they are safety aware.
Induction sessions and regular updates are provided on safety awareness.
Safety awareness weeks form part of the annual calendar.
Fraud Specialist departments are in place in each business to prevent, detect and monitor fraud.
There is regular reporting to divisional boards and to the group audit committee.
Key person risk Effective recruitment, retention and succession planning strategies are in place.
The group has competitive remuneration and incentive structures.
Effective training, development and communication is in place throughout the group.
The risk of loss arising from the A clear group strategy is in place.
Business risk failure of the groups strategy or A board strategy and planning conference is held annually.
A dedicated central resource is in place to develop corporate strategy.
management actions over the New products and processes are thoroughly tested prior to roll-out.
There is comprehensive monitoring of competitor products, pricing and strategy.
Robust change programme functions oversee business change.
The group has comprehensive monthly management accounts, a monthly rolling forecast and a bi-annual budgeting process.
The risk of loss arising from changes in A board approved tax strategy is in place.
Tax risk An experienced in-house tax team deals with all tax matters.
Advice is sought from external advisers on key corporate and indirect tax matters, including the self-employed status of agents.
Material transactions are agreed with the relevant authorities in advance where appropriate.
The risk that a change in external There is a board approved policy on hedging interest rate risk.
Interest interest rates leads to an increase in The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge the risk of movements rate risk in interest rates.
the groups cost of borrowing.
Exposures are monitored by an experienced central treasury department.
The interest cost represents a relatively small part of the groups cost base.
See page 90 for more commentary on interest rate risk.
The risk that a change in foreign Foreign exchange exposures are limited to certain borrowings denominated in Foreign currency exchange rates leads to a US dollars and euros and CCDs Republic of Ireland operations.
exchange There is a board approved policy on hedging foreign exchange rate risk.
reduction in profits or equity.
rate risk Exposures are monitored by an experienced central treasury department.
The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge the risk of movements in foreign exchange rates.
See page 90 for more commentary on foreign exchange rate risk.
The risk arising from the lack of The groups customer base of over two million is well dispersed across the UK and Ireland.
Concentration New product development continues to be undertaken outside the core home diversification in the groups business risk credit business.
either geographical, demographic or by product.
The risk of loss due to adverse market The groups policies do not permit it to undertake position taking or trading books of Market risk movements caused by active trading this type and therefore it does not do so.
positions taken in interest rates, foreign exchange markets, bonds and equities.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
