Additional information Risk factors A number of factors risk factors affect Prudentials operating assets invested in fixed income securities.
In particular, fixed results and financial condition and, accordingly, the trading price annuities and stable value products written by Jackson expose the of its shares.
The risk factors mentioned below should not be Prudential Group to the risk that changes in interest rates, which regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all are not fully reflected in the interest rates credited to customers, potential risks and uncertainties.
The information given is as of will reduce spread.
The spread is the difference between the rate the date of this report, is not updated, and any forward-looking of return Jackson is able to earn on the assets backing the statements are made subject to the reservations specified under policyholders liabilities and the amounts that are credited to Forward-Looking Statements page 351. policyholders in the form of benefit increases, subject to minimum crediting rates.
During 2008, the US financial services industry Risks relating to Prudentials business faced an unprecedented array of challenges: the S&P 500 index Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to market fell by 38.5 per cent, government interest rates fell to historic lows, fluctuations and general economic conditions.
and global markets experienced a significant increase in volatility.
Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to market In addition, credit markets seized up and global credit spreads fluctuations and general economic conditions.
Uncertain or widened to historic levels.
These factors contributed to substantial negative trends in international economic and investment climates increases in Jacksons unrealised losses.
Although global markets which have adversely affected Prudentials business and have begun to stabilise beginning in 2009, interest rates remain profitability could be repeated, or prolonged, or could worsen.
low, many of the challenges of 2008 persist in the credit markets The adverse effects of such trends, including the unprecedented and new challenges such as potential sovereign credit market dislocation across asset classes and geographical markets deterioration and defaults continue to emerge.
Declines in spread witnessed in 2008 and in the first half of 2009, have been and from these products or other spread businesses that Jackson would be felt principally through the following: conducts could have a material impact on its businesses or results of operations.
Jackson also writes a significant amount of variable investment impairments or reduced investment returns, as a annuities that offer capital or income protection guarantees.
There result of market volatility, could impair Prudentials ability to could be unforeseen market circumstances where the derivatives write significant volumes of new business as a result of market that it enters into to hedge its market risks may not fully offset its volatility, which would have a negative impact on its assets losses, and any cost of the guarantees that remain unhedged will under management and profit: also affect the Companys results.
higher credit defaults and wider credit and liquidity spreads resulting in realised and unrealised credit losses, as experienced For some non unit-linked investment products, in particular those during 2008 and 2009, when illiquidity and credit spreads written in some of the Groups Asian operations, it may not be reached all-time highs: possible to hold assets which will provide cash flows to exactly Prudential in the normal course of business enters into a variety match those relating to policyholder liabilities.
This is particularly of transactions with counterparties, including derivative true in those countries where bond markets are not developed and transactions.
Failure of any of these counterparties to discharge in certain markets where regulated surrender values are set with their obligations, or where adequate collateral is not in place, reference to the interest rate environment prevailing at the time could have an adverse impact on Prudentials results: and of policy issue.
This results in a mismatch due to the duration and in certain illiquid or closed markets, determining the value at uncertainty of the liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient which financial instruments can be realised is highly subjective.
This residual asset liability mismatch Processes to ascertain value and estimates of value require risk can be managed but not eliminated.
Where interest rates in substantial elements of judgement, assumptions and estimates these markets remain lower than interest rates used to calculate which may change over time.
Increased illiquidity also adds to surrender values over a sustained period, this could have an uncertainty over the accessibility of financial resources and may adverse impact on the Groups reported profit.
reduce capital resources as valuations decline.
Prudential is subject to the risk of exchange rate Estimates of financial instruments value are difficult because a fluctuations owing to the geographical diversity significant part of Prudentials shareholders profit is related to of its businesses.
bonuses for policyholders declared on its with-profits products, Due to the geographical diversity of its businesses, Prudential which are broadly based on historic and current rates of return is subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
Prudentials on equity, real estate and fixed income securities, as well as international operations in the US and Asia, which represent a Prudentials expectations of future investment returns.
During significant proportion of operating profit and shareholders funds, 2008 and for the first half of 2009, Prudential has had to operate generally write policies and invest in assets denominated in local in the UK against a challenging background of unprecedented currency.
Although this practice limits the effect of exchange rate volatility in capital and equity markets, interest rates and fluctuations on local operating results, it can lead to significant widespread economic uncertainty.
This has led, among other fluctuations in Prudentials consolidated financial statements upon things, to reduced consumer spending, an increase in translation of results into sterling.
The currency exposure relating unemployment, and consequently reduced liquidity, requiring to the translation of reported earnings is not separately managed.
the intervention of the Bank of England via a quantitative easing Consequently, this could impact on the Groups gearing ratios programme to restore credit liquidity in the market.
defined as debt over debt plus shareholders funds.
The In the US fluctuations in prevailing interest rates can affect results impact of gains or losses on currency translations is recorded from Jackson National Life Insurance Company Jackson, which as a component of shareholders funds within the statement has a significant spread-based business, with the majority of its of changes in equity.
344 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Prudential conducts its businesses subject to regulation Various jurisdictions in which Prudential operates have created investor compensation schemes that require mandatory and associated regulatory risks, including the effects of changes in the laws, regulations, policies and contributions from market participants in some instances in the interpretations and any accounting standards event of a failure of a market participant.
As a major participant in the markets in which it operates.
in the majority of its chosen markets, circumstances could arise Changes in government policy, legislation including tax or where Prudential, along with other companies, may be required regulatory interpretation applying to companies in the financial to make such contributions.
services and insurance industries in any of the markets in which The Groups accounts are prepared in accordance with current Prudential operates, which in some circumstances may be applied International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS applicable to retrospectively, may adversely affect Prudentials product range, the insurance industry.
The International Accounting Standards distribution channels, capital requirements and, consequently, Board IASB introduced a framework that it described as Phase I, reported results and financing requirements.
For instance, which permitted insurers to continue to use the statutory basis of regulators in jurisdictions in which Prudential operates may accounting for insurance assets and liabilities that existed in their change the level of capital required to be held by individual jurisdictions prior to January 2005.
The IASB has published businesses.
Also these changes could include possible changes in proposals in its Phase II discussion paper, which would introduce the regulatory framework for pension arrangements and policies, significant changes to the statutory reporting of insurance entities the regulation of selling practices and solvency requirements.
that prepare accounts according to IFRS and has stated its Furthermore, as a result of the recent interventions by intention to publish an Exposure Draft in 2010.
It is uncertain governments in response to global economic conditions, it whether and how the proposals in the discussion paper will is widely expected that there will be a substantial increase in become definitive IFRS and when such changes might take effect.
government regulation and supervision of the financial services industry, including the possibility of higher capital requirements, Any changes or modification of IFRS accounting policies may restrictions on certain types of transaction structure, and require a change in the future results or a restatement of enhanced supervisory powers.
Current EU directives, including the EU Insurance Groups European Embedded Value EEV basis results are published as Directive IGD require European financial services groups to supplementary information by Prudential using principles issued demonstrate net aggregate surplus capital in excess of solvency by the European CFO Chief Financial Officers Forum.
The EEV requirements at the Group level in respect of shareholder-owned basis is a value based reporting method for Prudentials long-term business which is used by market analysts and which underpins entities.
The test is a continuous requirement, so that Prudential needs to maintain a somewhat higher amount of regulatory capital a significant part of the key performance indicators used by Prudentials management for both internal and external reporting at the Group level than otherwise necessary in respect of some of its individual businesses to accommodate, for example, short-term purposes.
In June 2008, in an effort to improve the consistency and transparency of embedded value reporting, the CFO Forum movements in global foreign exchange rates, interest rates, deterioration in credit quality and equity markets.
The EU is also published the Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV Principles.
Following a review of the impact of turbulent market developing a new solvency framework for insurance companies, referred to as Solvency II.
The new approach will be based on conditions on the MCEV Principles, the CFO Forum announced in May 2009 the postponement of the mandatory reporting on the concept of three pillars minimum capital requirements, supervisory review of firms assessment of risk, and enhanced MCEV basis until 2011 and subsequently, in October 2009, changes in the principles to allow for the inclusion of a liquidity disclosure requirements and will cover valuations, the treatment of insurance groups, the definition of capital and the overall level premium, which is the additional return investors require for investing in less liquid assets and is a key component in the of capital requirements.
A key aspect of Solvency II is that the assessment of risks and capital requirements will be aligned more calculation of the profitability of UK annuity business.
It also announced that it was performing further work to develop more closely with economic capital methodologies, and may allow the Group to make use of its internal economic capital models, if detailed application guidance to increase consistency going forward.
When the work has been completed, Prudential will approved by the FSA.
The Solvency II Directive was formally approved by a meeting of the EUs Economic and Financial Affairs consider its approach to the new Principles.
The adoption of the new Principles would give rise to different embedded value Council on 10 November 2009.
The European Commission has already initiated the process of developing the detailed rules that results from those prepared under the application of European Embedded Value Principles.
will complement the high-level Principles of the Directive, referred to as implementing measures, which are subject to a consultation The resolution of several issues affecting the financial process and are not expected to be finalised until late 2011.
There is a significant uncertainty regarding the final outcome of this services industry could have a negative impact on Prudentials reported results or on its relations with process.
As a result there is a risk that the effect of the measures finally adopted could be adverse for the Group, including a current and potential customers.
Prudential is, and in the future may be, subject to legal and potentially significant increase in the capital required to support the UK annuity business.
In addition, the application of Solvency II regulatory actions in the ordinary course of its business, both in the UK and internationally.
This could be a review of business to international groups is still unclear and there is a risk of inconsistent application, which may place Prudential at a sold in the past under previously acceptable market practices at the time, such as the requirement in the UK to provide redress competitive disadvantage to other European and non-European financial services groups.
to certain past purchasers of pension and mortgage endowment policies, changes to the tax regime affecting products, and regulatory reviews on products sold and industry practices, including, in the latter case, businesses it has closed.
345 Additional information Risk factors continued Regulators particularly, but not exclusively, in the US and the UK Jacksons competitors in the US include major stock and mutual are moving towards a regime based on principles-based regulation insurance companies, mutual fund organisations, banks and other which brings an element of uncertainty.
These regulators are financial services companies such as AIG, AXA Financial Inc. increasingly interested in the approach that product providers Hartford Life Inc. Lincoln National, MetLife and TIAA-CREF.
use to select third-party distributors and to monitor the In Asia, the Prudential Groups principal regional competitors are appropriateness of sales made by them.
In some cases product international financial companies, including Allianz, AXA, ING, providers can be held responsible for the deficiencies of thirdAIA and Manulife.
In a number of markets, local companies have party distributors.
In the US, federal and state regulators have focused on, and Prudential believes competition will intensify across all regions continue to devote substantial attention to, the mutual fund, in response to consumer demand, technological advances, the fixed index variable annuity and insurance product industries.
impact of consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors.
This includes new regulations in respect of the suitability of Prudentials ability to generate an appropriate return depends broker-dealers sales of certain products.
As a result of publicity significantly upon its capacity to anticipate and respond relating to widespread perceptions of industry abuses, there appropriately to these competitive pressures.
have been numerous regulatory inquiries and proposals for legislative and regulatory reforms.
Downgrades in Prudentials financial strength and credit In Asia, regulatory regimes are developing at different speeds, ratings could significantly impact its competitive position driven by a combination of global factors and local considerations.
and hurt its relationships with creditors or trading There is a risk that new requirements are introduced that are counterparties.
retrospectively applied to sales made prior to their introduction.
Prudentials financial strength and credit ratings, which are used by the market to measure its ability to meet policyholder Litigation and disputes may adversely affect Prudentials obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in profitability and financial condition.
most of Prudentials products, and as a result its competitiveness.
Prudential is, and may be in the future, subject to legal actions Changes in methodologies and criteria used by rating agencies and disputes in the ordinary course of its insurance, investment could result in downgrades that do not reflect changes in the management and other business operations.
These legal actions general economic conditions or Prudentials financial condition.
and disputes may relate to aspects of Prudentials businesses and Downgrades in Prudentials ratings could have an adverse effect operations that are specific to Prudential, or that are common to on its ability to market products and retain current policyholders.
companies that operate in Prudentials markets.
Legal actions and In addition, the interest rates Prudential pays on its borrowings are disputes may arise under contracts, regulations including tax or affected by its debt credit ratings, which are in place to measure from a course of conduct taken by Prudential, and may be class Prudentials ability to meet its contractual obligations.
Although Prudential believes that it has adequately Prudentials long-term senior debt is rated as A2 negative provided in all material aspects for the costs of litigation and outlook by Moodys, A negative outlook by Standard & Poors regulatory matters, no assurance can be provided that such and A negative outlook by Fitch.
Given the large or indeterminate amounts of damages sometimes sought, and the inherent unpredictability Prudentials short-term debt is rated as P-1 by Moodys, A-1 by of litigation and disputes, it is possible that an adverse outcome Standard & Poors and F1 by Fitch.
could, from time to time, have an adverse effect on Prudentials Prudential Assurance Company Limited Prudential Assurance results of operation or cash flows.
long-term fund is rated Aa2 negative outlook by Moodys, AA negative outlook by Standard & Poors and AA negative Prudentials businesses are conducted in highly outlook by Fitch.
competitive environments with developing demographic trends and Prudentials continued profitability depends Jacksons financial strength is rated AA negative outlook by on its managements ability to respond to these pressures Standard & Poors and Fitch, A1 negative outlook by Moodys, and trends.
and A negative outlook by AM Best.
The markets for financial services in the UK, US and Asia are highly competitive, with several factors affecting Prudentials ability to Adverse experience in the operational risks inherent in sell its products and continued profitability, including price and Prudentials business could have a negative impact on its yields offered, financial strength and ratings, range of product results of operations.
lines and product quality, brand strength and name recognition, Operational risks are present in all of Prudentials businesses, investment management performance, historical bonus levels, including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from developing demographic trends and customer appetite for inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems certain savings products.
In some of its markets, Prudential faces and human error or from external events.
Prudentials business is competitors that are larger, have greater financial resources or a dependent on processing a large number of complex transactions greater market share, offer a broader range of products or have across numerous and diverse products, and is subject to a number higher bonus rates or claims-paying ratios.
Further, heightened of different legal and regulatory regimes.
In addition, Prudential competition for talented and skilled employees with local outsources several operations, including in the UK a significant experience, particularly in Asia, may limit Prudential Groups part of its back office and customer-facing functions as well as potential to grow its business as quickly as planned.
In turn, Prudential is reliant upon the operational processing performance of its outsourcing partners.
Within the UK, Prudentials principal competitors in the life market include many of the major retail financial services companies including, in particular, Aviva, Legal & General, Lloyds Banking Group and Standard Life.
346 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Further, because of the long-term nature of much of Prudentials As a holding company, Prudential is dependent upon its business, accurate records have to be maintained for significant subsidiaries to cover operating expenses and dividend periods.
Prudentials systems and processes incorporate controls payments.
which are designed to manage and mitigate the operational risks Prudentials insurance and investment management operations associated with its activities.
For example, any weakness in the are generally conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries.
administration systems or actuarial reserving processes could have As a holding company, Prudentials principal sources of funds are an impact on its results of operations during the effective period.
remittances from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds, the Prudential has not experienced or identified any operational risks shareholder transfer from Prudentials long-term funds and any in its systems or processes during 2009, which have subsequently amounts that may be raised through the issuance of equity, debt caused, or are expected to cause, a significant negative impact on and commercial paper.
Certain of the subsidiaries have regulatory its results of operations.
restrictions that can limit the payment of dividends, which in some circumstances could limit the Groups ability to pay dividends to Notwithstanding anything in this risk factor, this risk factor shareholders.
should not be taken as implying that Prudential or any member of the Group will be unable to comply with its obligations as a Prudential operates in a number of markets through company with securities admitted to the Official List or as a joint ventures and other arrangements with third parties supervised firm regulated by the FSA.
including in China and India.
These arrangements involve certain risks that Prudential does not face with respect to its Adverse experience against the assumptions used in consolidated subsidiaries.
pricing products and reporting business results could Prudential operates, and in certain markets is required by local significantly affect Prudentials results of operations.
regulation to operate, through joint ventures including in China Prudential needs to make assumptions about a number of factors and India.
Prudentials ability to exercise management control in determining the pricing of its products, and for reporting the over its joint venture operations and its investment in them capital levels and the results of its long-term business operations.
depends on the terms of the joint venture agreements, in For example, the assumption that Prudential makes about future particular, the allocation of control among, and continued coexpected levels of mortality is particularly relevant for its UK operation between, the joint venture participants.
In exchange for a premium equal to the capital also face financial or other exposure in the event that any of its value of their accumulated pension fund, pension annuity joint venture partners fails to meet its obligations under the joint policyholders receive a guaranteed payment, usually monthly, for venture or encounters financial difficulty.
In addition, a significant as long as they are alive.
Prudential conducts rigorous research proportion of the Groups product distribution is carried out into longevity risk, using data from its substantial annuitant through arrangements with third-parties not controlled by portfolio.
As part of its pension annuity pricing and reserving Prudential and is dependent upon continuation of these policy, Prudential assumes that current rates of mortality relationships.
A temporary or permanent disruption to these continuously improve over time at levels based on adjusted data distribution arrangements could adversely affect Prudentials from the Continuous Mortality Investigations CMI as published results of operations.
by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
If mortality improvement rates significantly exceed the improvement assumed, Prudentials Prudentials Articles of Association contain an exclusive results of operations could be adversely affected.
A further example is the assumption that Prudential makes about Under Prudentials Articles of Association, certain legal future expected levels of the rates of early termination of products proceedings may only be brought in the courts of England and by its customers persistency.
This is particularly relevant to its Wales.
This applies to legal proceedings between a shareholder lines of business other than its UK annuity business.
Prudentials in its capacity as such against Prudential and or its directors persistency assumptions reflect recent past experience for each and or its professional service providers.
It also applies to legal relevant line of business.
Any expected deterioration in future proceedings between Prudential and its directors and or persistency is also reflected in the assumption.
If actual levels of Prudential and Prudentials professional service providers future persistency are significantly lower than assumed that is, that arise in connection with legal proceedings between the policy termination rates are significantly higher than assumed, shareholder and such professional service provider.
This provision Prudentials results of operations could be adversely affected.
could make it difficult for US and other non-UK shareholders to enforce their shareholder rights.
In common with other industry participants, the profitability of the Groups businesses depends on a mix of factors including mortality and morbidity trends, policy surrender rates, investment performance and impairments, unit cost of administration and new business acquisition expense.
