Business review Risk and capital management Risk and capital management As a provider of financial services, including insurance, In the event that any of the business unit plans imply risk limits will we recognise that the managed acceptance of risk lies be exceeded, this will necessitate a dialogue between GERC and at the heart of our business.
As a result, effective risk the relevant business unit or units.
Exceeding Group limits may be management capabilities represent a key source of avoided if, for example, limits in other business units are not fully competitive advantage for our Group.
utilised, or if the diversification effect at Group level of a particular risk with other business units means the Group limit is not The Groups risk appetite framework sets out our tolerance to breached.
risk exposures as well as our approach to risk management and Market risk is managed such that as conditions evolve the risk return optimisation.
Under this approach, we monitor our risk profile is maintained within risk appetite.
In addition to business profile continuously against agreed limits.
Our main strategies for unit operational limits on credit risk, we set counterparty risk limits managing and mitigating risk include asset liability management, at Group level.
The limits on our total Group-wide exposures to using derivatives to hedge relevant market risks, and a single counterparty are specified within different credit rating implementing reinsurance and corporate insurance programmes.
Group Risk and the GERC monitor our actual exposures against these limits on a monthly basis.
Risk oversight Group risk appetite Risk exposures We define and monitor aggregate risk limits for our earnings The Group Risk Framework deploys a common risk language, volatility and our capital requirements based on financial and allowing meaningful comparisons to be made between different non-financial stresses: business units.
Risks are broadly categorised as shown opposite.
a Earnings volatility: the objectives of the limits are to ensure that a the volatility of our earnings is consistent with our 1 Financial risks a Market risk stakeholders expectations, b the Group has adequate earnings and cash flows to service debt, expected dividends i Equity risk In the UK business, most of our equity exposure is incurred in the and to withstand unexpected shocks, and c earnings and cash flows are managed properly across geographies and are with-profits fund which includes a large inherited estate estimated at 6.4 billion as at 31 December 2009 2008: 5.4 billion, which consistent with our funding strategies.
The two measures we apply to monitor the volatility of our earnings are European can absorb market fluctuations and protect the funds solvency.
The inherited estate itself is partially protected against falls in Embedded Value EEV operating profit and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS operating profit, equity markets through an active hedging policy.
In the course of 2009 we have reduced the with-profit funds exposure to UK although EEV and IFRS total profits are also considered.
equities whilst increasing the proportion of fixed income assets.
b Capital requirements: the limits aim to ensure that a the Group meets its internal economic capital requirements, In Asia, a high proportion of our in-force book is made up of unitb the Group achieves its desired target rating to meet its linked products with limited shareholder exposure to equities.
business objectives, and c supervisory intervention is avoided.
We have minimal direct shareholder exposure to Asian equity The two measures we apply are the EU Insurance Groups markets outside our unit-linked holdings.
Directive IGD capital requirements and internal economic In the US, where we are a leading provider of variable annuities, capital requirements.
In addition, we also monitor capital there are well-understood risks associated with the guarantees requirements on a local statutory basis.
We provide guarantees for minimum death benefits GMDB on all policies in this class, minimum Our risk appetite framework forms an integral part of our annual business planning cycle.
Our Group Risk function monitors the withdrawal benefits GMWB on 47 per cent of the book, and minimum income benefits GMIB on only eight per cent.
Groups risk profile against the agreed limits.
Using submissions from business units, Group Risk calculates the Groups aggregated To protect the shareholders against the volatility induced by these embedded options, we use both a comprehensive hedging position allowing for diversification effects between business units relative to the limits implied by the risk appetite statements.
Due to the inability to economically reinsure or hedge the GMIB, Jackson ceased offering this benefit Local limits are agreed with each of the business units to ensure in 2009. that the aggregate risk exposure remains within the defined Group-level risk appetite.
Each business unit determines its own In our variable annuity sales activities, we focus on meeting the individual risk position by calculating the impacts on earnings and needs of conservative and risk averse customers who are seeking capital measures of a shock to its market, credit, insurance and reliable income in retirement, and who display little tendency to operational risk exposures and agrees them with Group Risk and arbitrage their guarantees.
These customers select conservative the Group Executive Risk Committee GERC.
investment options and, importantly, buy fewer guarantee products compared to the industry as a whole.
We are able to We use a two-tier approach to apply the limits at business unit meet the needs of these customers because our unique and level.
Firstly, we calculate business unit risk limits.
These ensure market leading operational platform allows us to tailor more that, provided each business unit keeps within its limits, the Group than 1,400 product combinations.
risk position will remain within the Group limits.
Secondly, the impact on the risk position is considered as part of Group Risks scrutiny of large transactions or departures from plans proposed by individual business units.
40 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW Category Risk type Definition 1 Financial a Market risk The risk that arises from adverse changes in the value of, or income from, assets and risks changes in interest rates or exchange rates.
b Credit risk The risk of loss if another party fails to meet its obligations, or fails to do so in a timely fashion.
c Insurance risk The inherent uncertainty as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance cash flows.
This includes the impact of adverse mortality, morbidity and persistency experience.
d Liquidity risk The risk that a business, though solvent on a balance sheet basis, either does not have the financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due or can secure them only at excessive cost.
2 Non-financial Operational risk The risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal risks processes, people or systems, or from external events.
This includes legal and regulatory compliance risk.
Business Exposure to forces in the external environment that could significantly change environment risk the fundamentals that drive the businesss overall objectives and strategy.
Strategic risk Ineffective, inefficient or inadequate senior management processes for the development and implementation of business strategy in relation to the business environment and the Groups capabilities.
It is our philosophy not to compete on price.
Our individual Interest rates primarily impact our Asia, US and UK with-profits guarantees tend to be more expensive than the market average, businesses.
Following the sale of the agency-based business in because we seek to sell at a price capable of funding the cost Taiwan, the exposure to interest rate risk in Asia has significantly we incur to hedge or reinsure our risks.
The remaining risk in the region relates mostly to guarantees on traditional shareholder-backed life products and We use a macro approach to hedging that covers the entire equity asset-liability mismatches, driven by limited availability of longrisk in the US business, including all exposure to GMDB and term assets in some territories.
This exposure is monitored and GMWB guarantees.
Within this macro approach we make use managed carefully on an ongoing basis, for example by setting of the natural offsets that exist between the variable annuity clear limits on duration risk set in the investment guidelines.
guarantees and the fixed index annuity book, and then use a We have a range of risk mitigation options available that would combination of OTC options and futures to hedge the residual risk, help to reduce the exposure to interest rate movements.
allowing for significant market shocks and limiting the amount of capital we are putting at risk.
The hedging programme also covers In the US there is interest rate risk across the portfolio.
We manage the fees on variable annuity guarantees.
fixed annuity interest rate exposure through a combination of interest rate swaps and interest rate options, to protect capital Jackson hedges the economics of its products rather than the against rates rising quickly, and through the contractual ability accounting result.
Accordingly, while its hedges are effective on to reset crediting rates annually.
an economics basis, due to different accounting treatment for the hedges and some of the underlying hedged items, the reported In the UK the investment policy for the shareholder-backed income effect is more volatile.
For Jacksons variable annuities annuity business is to match the cash flow from investments with guaranteed benefits and related hedges, while there has been the annuity payments.
As a result, assets and liabilities are closely some volatility of results in 2008 and 2009, there has been a small matched by duration.
The impact of any residual cash flow cumulative net operating loss of 7 million over the 24 month mismatching can be adversely affected by changes in interest period, reflecting the overall effectiveness of the hedging rates, therefore the mismatching position is regularly monitored.
iii Foreign exchange risk ii Interest rate risk Prudential principally operates in the UK, the US, and in 13 countries Interest rate risk arises primarily from Prudentials investments in Asia.
The geographical diversity of our businesses means that in long-term debt and fixed income securities.
Interest rate risk we are inevitably subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
also exists in policies that carry investment guarantees on early Prudentials international operations in the US and Asia, which surrender or at maturity, where claim values can become higher represent a significant proportion of our operating profit and than the value of backing assets as a result of rises or falls in shareholders funds, generally write policies and invest in assets interest rates.
Although this practice limits the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on local operating results, it can lead to significant fluctuations in our consolidated financial statements when results are expressed in pounds sterling.
41 Business review Risk and capital management continued We do not generally seek to hedge foreign currency revenues, During the second half of 2009 we materially reduced our as these are substantially retained locally to support the growth holdings in subordinated financial debt backing our annuity of the Groups business and meet local regulatory and market business, which has improved the overall credit quality of our requirements.
However, in cases where a surplus arising in an bond portfolios.
This has resulted in gross losses of 254 million overseas operation supports Group capital or shareholders on shareholder-backed business and 80 million on policyholder interest, this exposure is hedged if it is economically optimal backed business.
On a Pillar I basis these losses have been fully to do so.
Currency borrowings, swaps and other derivatives offset by a reduction in long-term default reserves of 180 million are used to manage exposures.
shareholder 31 million policyholder that arose as a result of the improvement in the quality of our remaining bond portfolios and b Credit risk a further 74 million shareholder 49 million policyholder release of short-term default reserves which were allocated to the assets Debt portfolio sold.
On an IFRS basis, the gross costs less the reduction in longOur debt portfolio on an IFRS basis was 101.8 billion at term and short-term default reserves resulted in an overall pre-tax 31 December 2009.
45.6 billion of these assets backed operating loss of 51 million shareholder 32 million policyholder.
shareholder business, of which 93 per cent were investment grade, compared to 96 per cent at 31 December 2008.
This US change was a result of downgrades, largely occurring in March The most significant area of exposure to credit risk for the and April, with the pace of downgrade significantly slowing shareholders is Jackson in the US.
Sovereign debt backing shareholder business fixed income portfolio totalling 22.8 billion, comprised 16.5 represented 11 per cent of the portfolio, or 4.9 billion at billion Corporate Debt, 2.1 billion of Commercial Mortgage 31December2009, 67 per cent of this was AAA and 91 per cent Backed Securities CMBS, 3.3 billion of Residential Mortgage investment grade.
Eurozone sovereign exposures backing Backed Securities RMBS and 0.9 billion of other instruments.
shareholder business were 3.1 billion at 31 December 2009, 98 per cent of these were AAA rated.
Of the remaining 2 per cent, The US Corporate Debt portfolio of 16.5 billion is 94 per cent the highest exposure was in respect of Italy 55 million and investment grade.
Concentration risk is low, with the top ten Spain 1 million whilst there was no exposure to Greece, holdings accounting for less than seven per cent of the portfolio.
The non-investment grade portfolio is also well diversified with an average holding of 8 million.
Our largest sector exposures in the Asia investment grade portfolio are Utilities and Energy both at 15 per Asias debt portfolio totalled 10.0 billion at 31 December.
We actively manage the portfolio and will sell exposures as approximately 75 per cent was invested in unit-linked and withevents dictate.
profits funds with minimal shareholders risk.
The remaining 25 Within the RMBS portfolio of 3.3 billion, the agency guaranteed per cent is shareholder exposure and is invested predominantly portion is 60 per cent.
Another 21 per cent of the portfolio is 79 per cent in investment grade bonds.
For Asia, the portfolio non-agency prime and Alt-A investments with pre-2006 2007 has performed very well, and did not experience any default vintages, where experience has been much more positive than losses in 2009. later vintages.
Our exposure to the 2006 2007 vintages totals 466 million of which 373 million is invested in the senior part UK of the capital structure, thereby significantly reducing the risk of The UKs debt portfolio on an IFRS basis is 67.8 billion as at defaults and the magnitude of loss if a shortfall does occur.
The 31 December 2009, including 42.3 billion within the UK withactual exposure to non-senior 2006 2007 Prime and Alt-A RMBS profits fund.
Shareholders risk exposure to the with-profits fund is only 93 million.
The total RMBS portfolio has an average fair is limited as the solvency is protected by the large inherited estate.
value price of 78 cents in the dollar.
Outside the with-profits fund there is 6.4 billion in unit linked funds where the shareholders risk is limited, with the remaining The CMBS 2.1 billion portfolio is performing strongly, with 19.0 billion backing the shareholders annuity business and 46 per cent of the portfolio rated AAA and less than 1 per cent other non-linked business of which 78 per cent is rated AAA rated below investment grade.
The entire portfolio has an average to A, 19 per cent BBB and three per cent non-investment grade.
credit enhancement level of 30 per cent.
This level provides significant protection, since it means the bond has to incur a On a statutory Pillar 1 basis we have held prudent credit reserves 30 per cent loss, net of recoveries, before we are at risk.
within the UK shareholder annuity funds of 1.6 billion to allow for future credit risk.
For Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL In Jackson total amounts charged to profits relating to debt this allowance is set at 71bps at 31 December 2009 2008: 80bps.
This is net This now represents 41 per cent of the portfolio spread over swaps of recoveries reversals recognised in the year of 5 million compared to 31 per cent as at 30 June 2009 and 25 per cent as at 2008: 3 million.
A low level of new defaults 11 million were In 2009, Jacksons total defaults were less than 1 million 2008: reported on the debt portfolio held by the UK shareholder backed 78 million.
In addition, as part of our active management of the annuity business in 2009. book, we incurred net losses of 6 million 2008: 130 million on the sale of impaired bonds.
IFRS write-downs excluding defaults for the year were 630 million compared to 419 million in 2008.
Of this amount 509 million 2008: 167 million was in respect of RMBS securities.
42 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW The impairment process reflects a rigorous review of every single c Insurance risk bond and security in our portfolio.
The accounting requires us to The processes of determining the price of our products and book full mark-to-market losses on impaired securities through our reporting the results of our long-term business operations require income statement.
However we would expect only a proportion us to make a number of assumptions.
In common with other of these losses eventually to turn into defaults, and some of the industry players, the profitability of our businesses depends impaired securities to recover in price over time.
on a mix of factors including mortality and morbidity trends, persistency, investment performance, unit cost of administration In considering potential future losses for Jackson, it is essential and new business acquisition expenses.
We continue to conduct to examine the key components of the debt portfolio.
As at rigorous research into longevity risk using data from our 31 December 2009, 93 per cent of Jacksons total debt portfolio substantial annuitant portfolio.
Prudentials persistency of 22.8 billion consisted of investment grade securities and assumptions reflect recent experience for each relevant line of seven per cent were non-investment grade.
business, and any expectations of future persistency.
Where appropriate, allowance is also made for the relationship either Asset management assumed or historically observed between persistency and The debt portfolio of the Groups asset management operations of investment returns, and for the resulting additional risk.
1.2 billion principally comprises 1.1 billion related to Prudential Capital operations.
Of this amount, debt securities of 1.1 billion d Liquidity risk were rated AAA to Aby S&P or Aaa by Moodys.
The holding company has significant internal sources of liquidity which are sufficient to meet all of our expected requirements for Loans the foreseeable future without having to make use of external Of the total Group loans of 8.8 billion at 31 December 2009, funding.
In aggregate the Group has 2.1 billion of undrawn 6.9 billion are held by shareholder-backed operations committed facilities, of which, in February 2009, we renewed comprising of 4.5 billion commercial mortgage loans and 1.4 billion of the undrawn syndicated committed banking facility 2.4 billion of other loans.
We also have two 100 million undrawn Of this total held by shareholder-backed operations, the Asian bilateral committed banking facilities expiring in 2011 and 2012, insurance operations held 0.4 billion of other loans, the majority with the balance being an annually renewable 500 million of which are commercial loans held by the Malaysian operation committed securities lending facility.
In addition the Group has that are investment graded by two local rating agencies.
The access to liquidity via the debt capital markets, which was US insurance operations held 4.3 billion of loans, comprising demonstrated most recently through the two hybrid instruments, 3.8 billion of commercial mortgage loans, all of which are 400 million of Lower Tier 2 debt issued in May, US$750 million collateralised by properties, and 0.5 billion of policy loans.
approximately 455 million of Innovative Tier 1 debt issued in The US commercial mortgage loan portfolio does not include July and a 250 million senior 3-year MTN issued in January 2010. any single-family residential mortgage loans and therefore is Liquidity is also assessed at business unit level under base case not exposed to the risk of defaults associated with residential and stressed assumptions.
The liquidity resources available have sub-prime mortgage loans.
The UK insurance operations held been assessed to be sufficient under both sets of assumptions.
0.8 billion of loans, the majority of which are mortgage loans collateralised by properties.
2 Non-financial risk Prudential is exposed to operational, business environment and The balance of the total shareholder loans amounts to 1.4 billion strategic risk in the course of running its businesses.
We process and relates to bridging loan finance managed by Prudential a large number of complex transactions across numerous and Capital.
The bridging loan assets generally have no external credit diverse products, and are subject to a number of different legal ratings available, with internal ratings prepared by the Groups and regulatory, including tax, regimes.
We also have a significant asset management operations as part of the risk management number of third-party relationships that are important to the process, with the majority being rated BBB to BBB-.
distribution and processing of our products, both as market counterparties and as business partners.
Unrealised credit losses in the US Jacksons net unrealised position moved from a loss of 2,897 We use the qualitative and quantitative analysis of operational risk million at 31 December 2008 to a net gain of 4 million at 31 exposures material to the Group to support business decisions, to December 2009 as the markets rebounded from the historically inform overall levels of capital held and to assess the adequacy of wide spreads at the end of 2008.
The gross unrealised loss the corporate insurance programme.
position moved from 3,178 million at 31 December 2008 to 966 million at 31 December 2009.
Gross unrealised losses on securities priced at less than 80 per cent of face value totalled 594 million at 31 December 2009 compared to 1.9 billion at 31 December 2008.
43 Business review Risk and capital management continued Capital management Stress testing Regulatory capital IGD As at 31 December 2009, the impact of an instantaneous 20 per Prudential is subject to the capital adequacy requirements of cent fall in equity markets levels which is equivalent to the worst the European Union EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD as historic daily fall in the S&P index, would reduce IGD surplus by implemented by the Financial Services Authority FSA in the UK.
Were equity markets to fall by more than 20 per cent, The IGD capital adequacy requirements involves aggregating we believe that this would not be an instantaneous fall but rather surplus capital held in our regulated subsidiaries, from which this would be expected to occur over a period of time during Group borrowings, except those subordinated debt issues that which we would be able to put into place mitigating management qualify as capital, are deducted.
No credit for the benefit of actions.
For example, we have estimated that the impact net of diversification is permitted under this approach.
mitigating management actions of an additional 20 per cent fall in equity markets over a four week period following an instantaneous Our capital position has been further strengthened during 2009, 20 per cent fall would be an estimated reduction in the IGD surplus driven by our prudent but proactive risk management.
Our IGD of a further 350 million.
capital surplus is estimated at 3.4 billion at 31 December 2009 before allowing for the 2009 final dividend giving an estimated In summary, the findings of our stress testing and sensitivity solvency ratio of 270 per cent.
This compares to a surplus at analysis, which are part of the continual process of assessing 31 December 2008 before allowing for the 2008 final dividend the resilience of the Groups IGD capital position to withstand of 1.5 billion and a solvency ratio of 152 per cent.
The positive significant further deterioration in market conditions include: movement of 1.9 billion during 2009 mainly comprises: An instantaneous 20 per cent fall in equity markets from Net capital generation mainly through operating earnings 31 December 2009 levels would reduce IGD surplus by in-force releases less investment in new business of 1.1 billion 150 million.
The impact of the sale of our agency distribution business in A 40 per cent fall in equity markets comprising an Taiwan of 0.8 billion instantaneous 20 per cent fall followed by a further 20 per cent Hybrid debt issues in May and July 2009, totalling 0.9 billion fall over a four week period would reduce the IGD surplus by Additional recognition of 0.4 billion of surplus in respect of part 500 million.
of the shareholders interest in the future transfers from the PAC A 150bps reduction subject to a floor of zero in interest rates with-profit fund, recognition of 0.2 billion of future profits in from 31 December 2009 would reduce the IGD surplus by the UK and Hong Kong and other intra-group capital efficiencies 400 million.
Credit defaults of ten times the expected level would have an impact of 550 million in excess of the annual reserve release.
Offset by: We believe that the results of these stress tests, together with Final 2008 dividends, net of scrip, of 0.2 billion and interim our Groups strong underlying earnings capacity, our established 2009 dividends, net of scrip, of 0.1 billion hedging programmes and our additional areas of financial External financing costs and other central costs of 0.6 billion flexibility, demonstrate that we are in a position to withstand Credit related impairments and default losses in the US of possible significant further deterioration in market conditions.
0.4 billion Impacts arising from regulatory changes of 0.2 billion We also use an economic capital assessment to monitor our Foreign exchange movements of 0.3 billion.
capital requirements across the Group, allowing for realistic diversification benefits and continue to maintain a strong position.
We have strengthened our IGD capital position in challenging This assessment provides valuable insights into our risk profile.
We continue to have further options available to us to manage available and required capital.
These could take the form Solvency II of either increasing available capital for example, through The European Union EU is developing a new solvency financial reinsurance or debt issuance or reducing required capital framework for insurance companies, referred to as Solvency II.
for example, through the level and the mix of new business, The Solvency II Directive, which sets out the new solvency notably by maintaining pricing discipline and through the use of framework for insurers in the European Union, was formally other risk mitigation strategies such as hedging and reinsurance.
approved by the Economic and Financial Affairs Council in In addition to this strong capital position, the total credit reserve November 2009.
The new approach is based on the concept for the UK shareholder annuity funds, which protects our capital of three pillars minimum capital requirements, supervisory position in excess of the IGD surplus, has been strengthened to review of firms assessments of risk, and enhanced disclosure 1.6 billion from 1.5 billion at 30September2009.
is equivalent to 71 bps per annum over the lifetime of the assets.
During the severe equity market conditions experienced in the first quarter of 2009 the Group entered into exceptional overlay short-dated hedging contracts to protect against potential tailevents on the IGD capital position, in addition to the regular operational hedging programmes.
The hedge contracts have expired and have not been renewed.
44 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW Specifically, Pillar 1 covers the quantitative requirements around Capital allocation own funds, valuation rules for assets and liabilities and capital Prudentials approach to capital allocation takes into account a requirements.
Pillar 2 provides the qualitative requirements range of factors, especially risk adjusted returns on capital, the for risk management, governance and controls, including the impact of alternative capital measurement bases accounting, requirement for insurers to submit an Own Risk and Solvency regulatory, economic and ratings agency assessments, tax Assessment ORSA which will be used by the Regulator as part efficiency, and wider strategic objectives.
of the supervisory review process.
Pillar 3 deals with the enhanced We optimise capital allocation across the Group by using a requirements for supervisory reporting and public disclosure.
consistent set of capital performance metrics across all business A key aspect of Solvency II is that the assessment of risks and units to ensure meaningful comparison.
Capital utilisation, return capital requirements will be aligned more closely with economic on capital and new business value creation are measured at a capital methodologies.
Companies may be allowed to make use product level.
The use of these capital performance metrics is of internal economic capital models if approved by the local embedded into our decision-making processes for product design regulator.
The European Commission has already initiated the process of Our capital performance metrics are based on economic capital, developing the detailed rules that complement the high-level which provides a view of our capital requirements across the principles in the Directive, referred to as implementing measures.
Group, allowing for realistic diversification benefits.
Economic These are subject to a consultation process that is not expected capital also provides valuable insights into our risk profile and to be finalised until late 2011. is used both for risk measurement and capital management.
In particular, the Committee of European Insurance and Risk mitigation and hedging Occupational Pensions Supervisors CEIOPS published a number We manage our actual risk profile against our tolerance of risk.
of consultation papers in 2009 covering advice to the European To do this, we maintain risk registers that include details of the Commission on the implementing measures but there remains risks we have identified and of the controls and mitigating actions significant uncertainty regarding the outcome from this process.
we employ in managing them.
Any mitigation strategies involving Prudential is actively participating in shaping the outcome through large transactions such as a material derivative transaction our involvement in industry bodies and trade associations, are subject to review at Group level before implementation.
including the Chief Risk Officer and Chief Financial Officer Fora, together with the Association of British Insurers ABI and the We use a range of risk management and mitigation strategies.
Comit Europen des Assurances CEA.
The most important of these include: adjusting asset portfolios to reduce investment risks such as duration mismatches or Many of the issues being actively debated have received overweight counterparty exposures : using derivatives to hedge considerable focus both within the industry and from national market risks: implementing reinsurance programmes to limit bodies.
However, the application of Solvency II to international insurance risk: implementing corporate insurance programmes groups is still unclear and there remains a risk of inconsistent to limit the impact of operational risks: and revising business application, which may place Prudential at a competitive plans where appropriate.
disadvantage to other European and non-European financial services groups.
There is also a risk that the effect of the measures finally adopted could be adverse for the Group including potentially a significant increase in the capital required to support the UK annuity business.
Having assessed the high-level requirements of Solvency II, an implementation programme was initiated with dedicated teams to manage the required work across the Group.
The activity of the local Solvency II teams is being coordinated by Group Head Office to achieve consistency in the understanding and application of the requirements.
Over the coming months we will be progressing our implementation plans further and remaining in regular contact with the FSA as we prepare for the initial stage of the approval process for the internal model.
45 Business unit review Insurance operations Asia INSURANCE OPERATIONS ASIA Asia is home to 60 per cent of the worlds population and, given its impressive economic transformation over the last few years, the region now has an increasingly significant role in the global economy.
This is translating into the rapid emergence of an increasingly urbanised and wealthy mass affluent sector that generates outstanding growth potential in retail financial services as people look to protect their financial well being and manage their savings in more sophisticated and efficient ways.
The word Asia is used extensively and broadly to describe what is, in fact, a highly diverse region of the world.
This diversity exhibits itself in myriad ways: culture, religion, politics, wealth and distribution of wealth and not least language.
Furthermore, within the financial services sector there are complex legal and regulatory environments which vary materially by country.
These are important considerations for any business with aspirations to develop businesses in Asia.
While there are undoubtedly commonalities and opportunities for synergy across the region, a one size fits all approach will generally produce suboptimal results.
Prudentials understanding of Asian diversity, as well as our own diversity in terms of geographic presence, distribution channels and product continue to be key factors in the success of our life insurance and asset management businesses.
Barry Stowe The concept that Asian economies are decoupling from Western Chief Executive economies is a point for continued debate, but external indicators Prudential Corporation Asia suggest that Asia is recovering more quickly from the recent global financial crisis.
Sound fundamentals coupled with aggressive stimuli have enabled most Asian economies to outperform the developed Western markets over the course of 2009.
So long as inflation remains under control, we expect the Asian central banks are likely to resist currency appreciation and maintain low interest rates.
We anticipate that capital flows into Asia should increase as Asias GDP growth continues to outpace the rest of the world.
46 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW Asia 8 8 AER CER 2009 2008 Change 2008 Change m m % m % APE sales 1,261 1,216 4 1,350 7 NBP 713 634 12 711 NBP margin % APE 57% 52% 53% NBP margin % PVNBP 11.4% 9.7% 9.7% Total EEV basis operating profit 1,105 1,213 9 1,379 20 Total IFRS operating profit 416 257 62 290 43 Operating profit from long-term operations excluding asset management operations, development costs, Asia regional head office expenses and the sold Taiwan agency business.
Market overview Initiatives in 2009 Asias life insurance industry saw a sharp decline in new business The over-arching objective for Prudential in Asia is to continue premiums during the first half of 2009 with investment linked and building profitable scale.
The strategic priorities articulated in single premium products particularly impacted.
However, balance December 2006 were expanding distribution and improving sheets have generally remained robust and there have been no productivity together with continuing product innovation with significant failures of insurance companies in the region.
a focus on retirement, health and protection segments.
These remain relevant in the current environment and are being Overall the competitive landscape for the life sector in Asia has actively pursued.
While a key measure of success is market out remained fairly static, except for Taiwan where issues regarding performance in terms of new business growth, we have continued the valuation of back books with high guaranteed interest our disciplined approach to growth and do not pursue volume for rates have caused some European players to re-evaluate their its own sake.
Profitability and return on capital are fundamental to strategies.
Prudential ceased the distribution of life insurance this discipline.
through tied agents in Taiwan in 2009 with the transfer of its agents and sale of their associated back book to China Life The key components of our strategy include agency distribution Taiwan.
A number of smaller regional players with subscale scale and productivity.
During 2009 total agent numbers at operations are also reported to be considering exits.
Prudential 410,000 remained roughly in line with 2008s 413,000.
Underlying acquired UOB Life in Singapore and entered into a long-term this small decrease is a reduction of 41,000 non-productive agents strategic partnership with UOB.
Through this partnership in India as that agency force undergoes a period of consolidation Prudentials life insurance products will be distributed through and focus on productivity following the rapid branch expansion of UOBs 414 bank branches across Singapore, Indonesia and prior years.
Elsewhere in the region we added a total of 38,000 Thailand.
On 15February 2010 Prudential suspended writing agents representing growth of 30 per cent over 2008.
Throughout new business in Japan but will continue to manage its existing 2009 agent activity remained around 2008 levels, a testament to in-force book.
This suspension does not affect the Prudential the resilience of this distribution channel in a difficult environment.
Groups asset management business in Japan.
However, average premiums per policy declined as the proportion of sales derived from health and protection products increased The regions life insurance regulators are generally inherently while these products have high new business margins, they conservative and have watched the collapse of purportedly tend to have lower average premiums.
More recently the trend sophisticated Western models of risk and capital management for average premiums per case reflects a return to 2008s in the banking sector with interest.
They are under pressure to pre-crisis levels.
ensure these mis-steps are not replicated in their markets and so although regulators have been raising standards for quality of sales The over-arching objective for Prudential in Asia is to advice, product transparency and service for several years, this continue building profitable scale.
emphasis has generally increased post-crisis.
Prudential views any measures taken to improve standards and enhance the reputation Prudential is one of the pioneers in partnership distribution in Asia.
of the industry positively as we believe we already manage our Our unique model includes locating Prudential employed and businesses to a market-leading standard.
managed sales people, known as Financial Service Consultants FSC, in key branches of our bank distribution partners.
Despite challenging market conditions, FSC sales for 2009 totalled 181 million, representing an increase of 26 per cent over 2008.
Prudential has distribution relationships with over 75 institutions across Asia including Standard Chartered Bank, E. Sun Bank and our joint venture partners ICICI in India and CITIC in China.
On 6 January 2010 we announced an important distribution agreement with UOB Group covering Singapore, Indonesia and Thailand.
47 Business unit review Insurance operations Asia continued Our focus on health and protection products has been Average new business profit margins have increased from particularly successful in a number of respects.
Health and 52 per cent for 2008 to 57 per cent for 2009.
The major drivers protection products are important for the customers who buy of this increase are a shift in average country mix where we have them and the distributors who sell them.
The proportion of seen lower proportions of new business from the lower margin health and protection products in our total APE mix increased to markets of Korea and India and the positive impact of the shift 29 per cent in 2009, up from 24 per cent in 2008.
Higher average in product mix towards higher margin health and protection new business margins for health business translated into solid products.
Total new business profits of 713 million are up returns for shareholders, and health products accounted for over 12 per cent over 2008.
Despite the unforeseen and very 50 per cent of the total new business profit generated in 2009. challenging environment, we have exceeded the target we Prudential was honoured as Asia Pacifics Health Insurer of set in December 2006 of doubling 2005 new business profits Year in 2009 by Frost and Sullivan.
As reported at the interims, during the first half of 2009 we did Health and protection products are important for the see a deterioration of persistency, principally in Korea, and we customers who buy them and the distributors who reported adverse assumption changes and experience variances sell them.
During the second half of 2009, the situation has improved as a result of management actions and an improvement Prudential currently insures over 10 million life insurance in market conditions.
During the second half only an additional customers in Asia.
While we continue to focus aggressively 47 million of assumption changes and experience variances on the acquisition of new customers given the generally low relating to persistency were incurred, resulting in a full year charge penetration rates, we are equally focused on strengthening and of 154 million.
Overall assumption changes and experience deepening our relationships with our existing customers.
We are variances for 2009 netted out at a charge of 97 million, developing advanced data mining and profiling capabilities which representing an improvement from the charge of 124 million provide us with a better understanding of which customers need reported at the half year.
Given the scale of the EV shareholder which products and when.
Around 40 per cent of new business funds of the long-term business at 5.8 billion, these experience came from existing customers in 2009 excluding India, up from variances and assumption changes remain small.
The contribution 25 per cent in 2008.
Our customer retention rate was 90 per cent to in-force earnings arising from the unwind of the discount in 2009, a one per cent improvement over 2008. rate and other operating investment returns amounted to 489 million, up 20 per cent on prior year, reflecting the Financial performance growing scale of the business.
Although some challenges remain in the Asian economies, there are encouraging signs that the recovery is well underway.
Prudential Asia Life reported record IFRS profits of 416 million Importantly, consumer confidence is returning to the retail for 2009, an increase of 62 per cent over 2008.
This includes the financial services sector.
Prudential had its highest ever quarter impact of reserve releases in Malaysia following the introduction of in terms of new business volumes during the fourth quarter of RBC of 63 million.
Excluding this one-off, the growth rate for IFRS 2009 at 415 million up 42 per cent and 45 per cent from the third profit was 37 per cent.
Aside from Japan and Taiwan where we are quarter of 2009 and the equivalent quarter in 2008 respectively, working through fundamental changes in our business models and driven by a continued improvement in sentiment.
Full year new except for Thailand that made a small loss, all our life operations business results of 1,261 million represent a growth rate of are generating IFRS profits.
Our life insurance joint venture with 4 per cent over 2008.
ICICI in India generated its first IFRS profit since the inception of the business in 2001.
Agency remains our largest distribution channel, accounting for 63 per cent of new business, in line with 2008.
Distribution Prudential Asia Life reported record IFRS profits of 416 through bank partnerships account for 24 per cent of new million for 2009, an increase of 62 per cent over 2008. business, up from 22 per cent in 2008.
The proportion of higher margin regular premium business in the mix grew to New business strain on the IFRS basis is 6.2 per cent of APE 93 per cent compared to 89 per cent in 2008.
It is important to compared to 8.0 per cent reported in 2008.
The main driver is note that while market conditions did drive down single premium change in country mix with lower proportions of new business volumes in 2009 the single premiums sales total for 2008 included from India and Korea.
IFRS profits from the in-force book of exceptional volumes of Central Provident Fund CPF related 494 million are 22 per cent ahead of 2008 excluding the business in Singapore.
Volumes of unit-linked business in 2009 impact of the reserve release in Malaysia.
were suppressed due to consumer concerns over capital markets, but nevertheless these products remain the single largest element We continue to manage our investment in new business, focusing of our product mix at 41 per cent of total APE for full year 2009 on value creation.
New business written in the period has an compared to 55 per cent in 2008.
As noted earlier, the proportion average internal rate of return IRR in excess of 20 per cent and of higher margin health and protection products has increased an average pay back period of three years.
The Asian Life Businesses remain net remitters of cash to the We have maintained strict pricing and value disciplines and have Group at 80 million.
not succumbed to the temptation to drive sales results with low margin products.
New business market share statistics for full year 2009 are not yet available but based on our estimates and market intelligence we expect to have retained our top three positions in seven out of our 11 life markets.
48 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW Asia: our extensive agency network The scale and reach of our Asia franchise is unparalleled, with top three market share positions in seven fast-growing markets.
Our growth across Asia is fuelled by our extensive tied agency force of 410,000 sales professionals.
Many of our agents today are young female graduates and successful entrepreneurs in their own right.
Dedicated and highly trained, our agents have the knowledge and commitment to help our customers meet their savings, protection and investment needs at every life stage.
Looking at individual countries As seen earlier during 2009, the market in Korea remains very In China, new business volumes for 2009 of 45 million are challenging and although the crisis has impacted results, a key up 18 per cent on 2008 principally driven by bancassurance.
contributor to the 44 per cent decline in new business volumes CITIC-Prudential remains one of the leading foreign joint in the year to 122 million is our unwillingness to compete in ventures and we continue to pursue our strategy of quality the low margin, high capital guaranteed products sector.
sales and sustainable value creation rather than chasing shortOur traditional and takaful businesses in Malaysia had a record term volumes.
China is a critically important strategic market 2009 with fourth quarter volumes of 62 million, nearly double the for Prudential.
third quarter and 72 per cent higher than the equivalent quarter of Hong Kong delivered an exceptionally strong fourth quarter of 2008.
Agency momentum in terms of recruitment and productivity are key drivers of the results, but there was also a significant 91 million of new business volumes, up 65 per cent on the third quarter of 2009 and up 98 per cent on the equivalent quarter of uptake due to a recovery in the local capital markets during the fourth quarter.
Full year new business volumes for 2009 of last year.
This was driven by continuing improvements in agency productivity along with strong recovery of the bank channel.
Full 146 million is an impressive 43 per cent increase over 2008.
Although comprehensive market statistics are unavailable we year new business for Hong Kong was 241 million, up 18 per cent over 2008.
Prudential remains amongst the top three positions in believe we are one of the leading life insurers in Malaysia.
Hong Kong based on new business premium market share and is Singapore also had a very strong finish to 2009 closing the year the only top player with distribution channel diversity.
with new business volumes up 14 per cent at 128 million.
Fourth Following a slow start to 2009, given the impacts of the market quarter new business sales of 48 million were up 66 per cent turbulence on customer confidence in India, ICICI-Prudential has on the third quarter and 85 per cent higher than the equivalent seen an encouraging resurgence in new business volumes quarter of last year.
Improved sentiment, plus increases in during the fourth quarter.
Prudentials fourth quarter new business agency productivity and new non-participating products drove volumes of 52 million reflecting our 26 per cent ownership is up this very strong result.
We anticipate holding our market leading 30 per cent on the third quarter.
Agency recruitment has slowed position in Singapore.
as our branch expansion programme has now been successfully Following our exit from the agency channel in 2009, Taiwan is completed.
The proportion of business derived from bank now successfully focused on bank distribution principally with distribution continues to increase and now stands at 30 per cent partners E. Sun and Standard Chartered Bank.
New business for 2009 compared to 25 per cent for 2008.
The operation remains volumes of 107 million for the year are up a significant 84 per Indias leading private sector life insurer.
cent on prior year from this channel and Taiwan remains a material contributor to Asias results.
Growth in Indonesia remains on track with the fourth quarter of 64 million of new business volumes up 49 per cent on the third Vietnam delivered a very strong result in 2009, up 36 per cent quarter of 2009 and up 36 per cent on the equivalent quarter of on prior year, driven by improvements in agency productivity.
Full year new business in Indonesia of 190 million Although small, both Philippines and Thailand delivered represented an increase of 8 per cent on 2008.
Agency manpower reasonable results given the challenging market conditions.
continues to be the main driver of growth with over 20,000 new As announced on 15 January, PCA Life Japan has suspended agents added during the year.
Takaful linked products remain writing new business.
a significant contributor at 25 per cent of the new business mix.
Prudential is the market leader in Indonesia in the life insurance industry.
49 Business unit review Insurance operations United States INSURANCE OPERATIONS UNITED STATES The United States is the worlds largest retirement savings market, and is continuing to grow rapidly.
As 1 78 million baby boomers reach retirement age, their retirement assets will shift from asset accumulation to income distribution.
There are already US$2 trillion of assets generating retirement income in the US and this 2 amount is forecast to rise to some US$7 trillion by 2029.
During 2009, the US financial services industry continued to face an array of challenges.
After the S&P 500 index fell to a 12-year low in March, it rebounded and ended the year up 23.5 per cent compared to a 38.5 per cent decline in 2008.
Governmental interest rates increased but remained at historic lows, and rating agencies downgraded the financial strength ratings of many of the largest US insurance companies.
Further uncertainty arose early in the year as several companies scaled back their product offerings due to capital constraints which, combined with the financial strength downgrades, caused consumers to question the long-term financial stability of product providers.
At the same time, tightening credit spreads and the rally in equity markets throughout the last nine months of the year created more favourable market conditions for the sale of variable annuities.
These developments in the annuity market provided a competitive advantage to companies with strong financial strength ratings and a relatively consistent product set.
Clark Manning President and Chief Executive Officer Prudentials US business, Jackson, benefited significantly from this Jackson National Life Insurance Company flight to quality in the US annuity market.
Our strategy continues to target increasing volumes in variable annuities in line with the goal of capital preservation.
As Jackson focused on optimising the balance between new business profits and capital consumption, no institutional sales were made during the full year of 2009.
Notes 1 Source: US Census Bureau 2 Source: Tiburon Strategic Advisers, LLC 50 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW United States 8 8 AER CER 2009 2008 Change 2008 Change m m % m % APE sales 912 716 27 846 8 NBP 664 293 127 347 91 NBP margin % APE 73% 41% 41% NBP margin % PVNBP 7.3% 4.1% 4.1% Total EEV basis operating profit 1,233 586 110 693 78 Total IFRS operating profit 459 406 13 480 4 Based on longer-term investment returns and excludes broker-dealer, fund management and Curian Initiatives in 2009 Innovation Distribution Innovation in product design and speed to market continue to be The success in the marketplace of Prudentials US business, key drivers of Jacksons competitiveness in the variable annuity Jackson, continues to be driven by our industry-leading market.
High-quality and cost-effective technology has allowed distribution organisation and product innovation, coupled with Jackson to offer a comprehensive product portfolio that can be our sound evaluation of product economics.
Our long-term goals customised to meet the needs of individual customers.
We offer for Jackson include the continued and profitable expansion of our products on an unbundled basis, enabling customers to select share of the US annuities and retail asset management markets, those benefits that meet their unique financial requirements which we plan to achieve by building on our advantaged position and to pay only for those benefits they truly desire.
In our view, in the advice-based distribution channels.
Ongoing profitable leveraging this advantage is a more sustainable long-term strategy growth in Jacksons share of the US annuities market largely than competing on price Jackson will not sacrifice product depends on the continued enhancement and expansion of our economics for a short-term increase in market share.
existing product offering, increased penetration of existing During 2009, Jackson maintained its track record of continued distribution channels and entry into new distribution channels, product innovation by enhancing our variable annuity product as well as opportunistic inorganic growth.
line by offering a bonus variable annuity and six new portfolio investment options.
We also continued to modify our The success in the marketplace of Prudentials US business, Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefits GMWBs.
Jackson, continues to be driven by our industry-leading distribution organisation and product innovation, coupled Customer service with our sound evaluation of product economics.
The significant increase in new business in 2009, following the difficult market conditions in 2008, resulted in higher call volume The annuity industry is consolidating to the strongest players, to our service centres.
Despite this increased workload, we and this consolidation has contributed to a substantial increase in continued to demonstrate the ability to service investors and Jacksons distribution relationships.
We have experienced a large advisers needs accurately and efficiently, by once again earning influx of new advisers this year, increasing our licensed agent and recognition as a World Class service provider in the Service registered representative count by more than 30,000 to 117,453, Quality Measurement Groups SQM latest benchmarking study which has driven significant increases in market share for Jackson, of North American service centres.
Historically, only 5 per cent of particularly in variable annuities.
Jackson signed a distribution service centres receive World Class designation, but 2009 marked agreement with Merrill Lynch, which began selling Jackson the fifth year that Jackson has achieved World Class status.
We products in late 2009. also earned SQMs Highest Customer Satisfaction by Industry Many baby boomers are increasingly seeking advice to help them award for having the highest rate of customer satisfaction in the recover the losses suffered during the crisis.
With strong growth in financial services industry.
During 2009, Jackson created a series our distribution relationships in advice-based channels, Jackson is of educational presentations and materials designed to address well positioned to benefit from this trend.
the concerns that advisers were facing in such a challenging economic environment.
In Financial Research Corporations 2009 Advisor Insight study, Jackson ranked number one in overall adviser satisfaction with marketing effectiveness.
51 Business unit review Insurance operations United States continued Financial performance Total retail annuity net flows of 5.0 billion for 2009 represent a 115 per cent increase on the same period in 2008 at actual Jackson delivered record APE sales in 2009 of 912 million, representing a 27 per cent increase over 2008 at actual exchange exchange rates, reflecting the impacts of record sales and continued low levels of surrender activity.
It was also the highest level of total sales in the companys history even though we sold no institutional products.
The strong EEV basis new business profits of 664 million were 127 per cent momentum seen in the first half of the year continued, as second higher than in 2008, reflecting a 27 per cent increase in APE sales half sales of 5.1 billion were 34 per cent higher than the first half and a significant shift in the mix of business toward variable of 2009 and 64 per cent higher than the second half of 2008.
Total new business margin was 73 per cent, have maintained our pricing discipline and continued to write significantly higher than the 41 per cent achieved in 2008. business at very attractive Internal Rates on Return in excess of 20 per cent and with payback periods of two years.
New business spread assumptions have increased for some products as a result of decreases in crediting rates on new Jackson ranked 4th in total annuity sales with a market share of business, which were lowered in an effort to reduce sales 5.3 per cent in the first nine months of 2009, up from 11th and and conserve capital.
Such high spreads are unusual and 3 a market share of 4.0 per cent for 2008. tied to the unique economic environment.
Variable annuity APE sales of 639 million in 2009 were 83 per The variable annuity new business margin increased from cent higher than 2008 at actual exchange rates and the highest 43 per cent in 2008 to 81 per cent in 2009, arising from updated level of variable annuity sales in the companys history.
Jacksons assumptions, revised benefits and higher take-up rates on the strong variable annuity sales performance was due primarily to the higher margin guaranteed withdrawal benefits.
equity market rally that began in the second quarter of 2009, the relative consistency of Jacksons product offering and continued The FIA new business margin decreased slightly from 53 per cent in 2008 to 51 per cent in 2009, as a result of the increased risk disruptions among some of our major competitors.
Jackson ranked 4th nationally in new variable annuity sales during the first three discount rate more than offsetting increased assumptions.
quarters of 2009, with a market share of 7.3 per cent, up from 12th The fixed annuity new business margin increased from 37 per cent 4 with a market share of 4.3 per cent at the end of 2008.
During the to 57 per cent, as a result of wider spread assumptions offset to first nine months of 2009, the latest period for which statistics are some extent by an increase in the risk discount rate.
available, Jackson ranked second in variable annuity net flows and experienced the lowest level of outflows, as a percentage of Total EEV basis operating profit for the long-term 4 variable annuity inflows, in the industry.
business in 2009 was 1,233 million, compared to Fixed index annuity FIA APE sales of 143 million in 2009 were 586 million in 2008. up 186 per cent over 2008.
Sales in the fourth quarter of 378 million were 111 per cent higher than the same quarter in 2008.
There was no new institutional business as Jackson restricted Industry FIA sales have increased due to higher customer sales in this business line in order to conserve and direct capital demand for products which offer guaranteed rates of return to higher margin variable annuity business.
with additional upside potential linked to stock market index Total EEV basis operating profit for the long-term business in 2009 performance.
Additionally, Jacksons FIA sales have benefited was 1,233 million, compared to 586 million in 2008.
In-force from the companys consistent financial strength ratings and EEV profits of 569 million were 94 per cent higher than the 2008 further disruptions among some of the top FIA sellers.
Jackson profit of 293 million, reflecting both the greater contribution to ranked fifth in sales of FIAs during the first three quarters of 2009, earnings from the unwind of the discount rate and the beneficial with a market share of 7.1 per cent, up from 9th with a market impact of updating the assumption relating to GMWB utilisation 5 share of 3.5 per cent at the end of 2008. rates to reflect recent experience studies.
Jacksons strategy of containing fixed annuity volumes to achieve capital preservation resulted in APE sales of 105 million, 39 per cent lower than 2008.
Sales in the fourth quarter of 212 million were 51 per cent higher than the third quarter of 2009 and 64 per cent lower than the fourth quarter of 2008.
Notes 3 Source: LIMRA 4 Source: Morningstar 5 Source: Advantage Group Associates, Inc 52 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW Jackson becomes a top five annuity provider Our outstanding performance in the US is driven by our success in meeting the needs of the babyboomer generation the 78 million Americans now approaching retirement and looking to turn their retirement savings into income.
During 2009, a period of unprecedented financial turmoil, savers began to seek greater certainty.
Jackson was quick to respond through offering a comprehensive product portfolio that could be customised to meet the needs of individual customers.
As a result, Jackson moved from eleventh in total annuity sales to become a top-five provider, while simultaneously achieving a dramatic increase in margins.
IFRS operating profit for the long-term business was 459 million Gross unrealised losses moved from 3,178 million at in 2009, up 13 per cent over the 406 million in 2008.
The 31 December 2008 to 966 million at 31 December 2009 as the expected charge from the negative accounting effect of rising markets rebounded from the historically wide spreads at the end equity markets and interest rates on derivative instruments of 2008.
The net unrealised position moved from an unrealised supporting Jacksons variable annuity business has been more loss of 2,897 million at 31 December 2008 to a net unrealised than offset by the absence of the accelerated DAC amortisation gain of 4 million at 31 December 2009. experienced in 2008 and the effect of movements in exchange Jacksons statutory basis total adjusted capital of 2.5 billion rates.
Since Jackson hedges the economics of the product rather is more than eight times the regulatory required risk-based than the accounting result, there will naturally be some volatility capital at the authorised control level.
This equates to a RBC in the reported results due to equity market and interest rate percentage in excess of 400 per cent.
As evidence of the effectiveness of Jacksons Commissioner granted Jackson a permitted practice that allowed hedging programme, over the cumulative 24 month period of Jackson to carry interest rate swaps at book value, as if statutory 2008 and 2009, which included a historic decline and partial hedge accounting were in place, instead of at fair value as would recovery of equity markets as well as significant interest rate have been otherwise required.
The effect of this permitted movements, Jacksons variable annuity guaranteed benefits and practice was to increase statutory total adjusted capital by related hedges resulted in a net operating loss of 7 million.
At 31 December 2009, Jackson had more than 55 billion in total assets, including 21 billion in separate account assets.
In 2009 Jackson recorded impairment write-downs and credit related losses on debt securities net of recoveries of 631 million 2008: 624 million, of which 499 million 2008: 167 million arose on residential mortgage-backed securities.
53 Business unit review Insurance operations United Kingdom INSURANCE OPERATIONS UNITED KINGDOM Prudential UK continues to focus on realising value from the opportunities created by the increasing need for retirement solutions.
Prudential UK competes in selected areas of the UKs retirement savings and income markets where it believes that it can generate attractive returns from capital employed.
In line with the Groups strategy, the business continues to place great emphasis on the disciplined deployment of capital to seize opportunities that play to the core strengths of the business and this focus enabled us to deliver a strong relative performance in 2009.
In 2009, Prudential UK performed strongly against a challenging background of difficult capital and equity markets and widespread economic uncertainty which led to consumers looking for greater certainty and security through trusted and financially strong brands.
We believe that the business has a unique combination of competitive advantages including our longevity experience, multi-asset investment capabilities, strong brand and financial strength, which help put Prudential UK in a strong position to generate attractive returns across its businesses.
The UK is characterised by an ageing population and the concentration of wealth in the mass affluent and high net Rob Devey worth sectors a combination that positions the retirement Chief Executive and near-retirement segment as the fastest-growing in the Prudential UK and Europe marketplace.
Low savings rates and high levels of consumer debt, coupled with an increasing shift in responsibility for Rob Devey Sig to come providing retirement income away from Government and employers towards individuals, have resulted in individuals in the UK being inadequately provided for during increasingly long periods of retirement.
54 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW United Kingdom 8 8 AER CER 2009 2008 Change 2008 Change m m % m % APE sales 723 947 24 947 24 NBP 230 273 16 273 16 NBP margin % APE 32% 29% 29% NBP margin % PVNBP 3.9% 3.4% 3.4% Total EEV basis operating profit 921 1,081 15 1,081 15 Total IFRS operating profit 657 589 12 589 12 Initiatives in 2009 Building on our multi-asset capabilities and expertise Maintaining leadership position in individual annuities Prudential UKs with-profits business performed particularly Prudential UK has a significant pipeline of internal vestings into its strongly during 2009, showing once again that with-profits, when annuity business from maturing individual and corporate pension invested in an actively managed, and financially strong fund like policies, which is expected to remain strong at least over the next Prudentials, continues to be an attractive medium to long-term ten years.
This is supplemented by strategic partnerships with investment, offering strong annualised returns compared with third parties where Prudential UK is the recommended annuity other investment options.
Prudential UK with-profits fund has provider for customers vesting their pensions at retirement.
delivered investment returns of 66.3 per cent over ten years Prudential UK is one of the largest annuity providers in the UK compared with the FTSE All-Share Index total return of market, with approximately 1.5 million annuities in payment.
17.7 per cent over the same period.
Looking ahead, the UK annuities market is expected to grow in Sales of with-profits bonds of APE 132 million were up 35 per the near-term, and Prudential UK believes it is well-positioned to cent on 2008.
This strong sales growth reflects the attractiveness maintain a significant share of this market.
of Prudentials with-profits offering, including in particular Sales of individual annuities of APE 219 million were 22 per cent PruFund, in which over 1.3 billion has been invested across lower than 2008.
Sales of external annuities of 83 million were Prudential UK retail savings product range in the last 12 months.
down 31 per cent year-on-year as Prudential UK continued to In 2009, Prudential UK extended further the PruFund range of actively manage the flow of external business to reduce capital investments with the launch of the PruFund Cautious series to sit consumption.
For internal vestings, although rates remained alongside the PruFund Growth series within the on-shore bond robust, sales were impacted by a reduction of eight per cent in wrapper.
Approximately 300 million has been invested in average case sizes as a result of depressed asset values and by PruFund Cautious since it was launched in the second half customers choosing to delay their retirement to allow asset values of the year.
As a result, internal vestings sales fell by 15 per cent.
However, the year-on-year decline is also explained by the fact Customers have invested over 1.3 billion in PruFund that vestings were stronger than usual in the last quarter of 2008. across Prudential UKs retail savings product range in the last 12 months.
In the first quarter of 2009, Prudential UK launched a new Income Choice Annuity which allows customers to choose an income Individual pensions sales including income drawdown of between a defined maximum and minimum level, with the option APE 55 million were 20 per cent higher than 2008.
Sales of of re-setting this every two years.
It also provides an opportunity the Flexible Retirement Plan, Prudential UKs individual pension for pension income to grow because the product is backed by product with customer agreed remuneration, continued to grow Prudentials strong with-profits fund.
with sales in 2009 of APE 21 million up 90 per cent.
Sales of the income drawdown product of APE 9 million were 13 per cent higher than 2008.
Sales were boosted by the launch of PruFund and PruSelect as fund options in the second half of 2008.
55 Business unit review Insurance operations United Kingdom continued Growing other income streams In November, Prudential UK announced the decision to close its equity release operation to new business.
For this product, Prudential UK has a joint venture with Discovery which uses the Prudential brand and Discoverys expertise to build branded a significant cash expense is incurred up front in acquiring new business and the payback period on capital employed is long.
distribution and innovative product offerings in the private healthcare and protection markets.
Since its launch, PruHealth Prudential UK management concluded that this is not sustainable and that cash and capital can be deployed more effectively across has established itself in the marketplace, and it now has more than 200,000 customers insured.
PruProtect continues to grow sales other parts of the business.
Prudential UKs existing lifetime mortgage customers are unaffected by this decision.
strongly following the re-launch of its product range and improved distribution model in November 2008.
APE Sales of 14 million Financial performance were achieved in 2009, an increase of 311 per cent over 2008.
Market conditions remained challenging in 2009, with ABI statistics data showing a 23 per cent fall in the retail sales market in Strengthening our distribution capabilities The business increased its field sales-force with an additional the twelve months to September.
As explained above, Prudential UK continued to maintain a strict focus on the disciplined use of 13 regional sales units and the focus is to continue developing deeper and better relationships with key accounts and through capital and pricing to achieve its return on capital targets.
Against this background, Retail APE sales of 717 million were down partnership arrangements.
Prudential UK was successful in gaining over 50 new panel positions across our 24 key accounts 11 per cent on 2008.
Total UK APE sales of 723 million were down 24 per cent on last year, although the 2008 figure included in 2009, meaning that its products are now even more widely available to intermediaries than before.
a large bulk annuity transaction which has not been repeated in 2009, due to the unavailability of transactions which met A strong focus on delivering improvements in Prudentials return criteria.
customer service Prudential UKs focus on delivering improved levels of customer The UK business continues to focus rigorously on balancing writing new business with cash and capital preservation service was recognised in 2009 through the award of two Five-Star awards at the Financial Adviser Service Awards in the while generating attractive returns on capital employed.
Life & Pensions and Investments categories.
These awards were achieved shortly before Prudential was named Best Annuity This disciplined pricing approach led to lower sales of individual annuities and corporate pensions.
In addition, sales of other Provider at the 2010 Professional Adviser Awards.
product lines, such as offshore bonds, were impacted by the continued market volatility.
These reductions in sales were Maintaining our disciplined approach to pricing and capital usage partially offset by the continued strength of Prudential UKs with-profits offering, in particular PruFund.
In the Wholesale markets, Prudential UKs aim is to participate selectively in bulk and back-book buyouts using the Groups Lower sales resulted in total EEV new business profits financial strength, superior investment track record and annuitant falling by 16 per cent to 230 million, but the underlying new mortality risk assessment capabilities.
There continues to be business margin improved from 29 per cent to 32 per cent.
a pipeline of potential wholesale deals, but maintaining a strict This improvement was mainly due to the strong margins focus on value means that Prudential UK will only participate in achieved on shareholder-backed annuity business.
The transactions that meet its strict return on capital requirements.
43 million reduction in the total EEV new business profit As a result, 2009 APE sales of 4 million were significantly lower compared with 2008 was mainly due to the large bulk deals than 2008. written in 2008 which were not repeated in 2009.
Retail EEV new business profits at 223 million were in line with Within corporate pensions, Prudential UK intends to continue to focus principally on the opportunities from the substantial existing 2008 226 million.
Defined Contribution book of business as well as providing Additional Voluntary Contribution arrangements to the public sector.
During an extremely challenging 2009 for Prudential UKs corporate clients and the whole industry, Prudential UKs revenues from existing schemes and underlying sales were broadly in line with 2008 after excluding one-off items in both 2008 and 2009.
With the inclusion of one-off items sales of 210 million were 16 per cent lower than in 2008.
56 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW UK: a trusted retirement brand In the UK, our 162-year heritage, financial strength and trusted retirement brand provide a robust platform for outperformance, generating capital and cash for investment in growth opportunities worldwide.
These core strengths have made us one of the UKs largest providers of individual annuities, with approximately 1.5 million annuities in payment.
With the UK annuities market set for near-term growth, we are well-placed to maintain a substantial share of this market, supported by ongoing innovation such as the new Income Choice Annuity we launched in 2009.
EEV total operating profit based on longer-term investment Prudential UK writes with-profits annuity, with-profits bond and returns of 921 million was down 15 per cent on 2008.
This with-profits corporate pensions business in its life fund, with other was mainly due to the 118 million benefit arising in 2008 from products backed by shareholder capital.
The weighted average rebalancing the credit portfolio that supports the shareholderpost-tax IRR on the shareholder capital allocated to new business backed annuity business compared with 22 million in 2009. growth in the UK was in excess of 15 per cent.
The average free The 2009 in-force operating result includes 588 million from surplus undiscounted payback period for shareholder-backed the unwind of the discount rate on the value in-force business business written in 2009 was five years.
which is three per cent higher than 2008.
The business has also continued to make good progress against its Prudential UK continues to manage actively the retention of the cost reduction plans.
As previously announced, the first phase of in-force book.
During 2009, the experience at an aggregate level the Prudential UK cost reduction programme delivered savings of has been in line with long-term assumptions.
115 million per annum, with a further 60 million per annum of savings expected to be delivered by the end of 2010 through the IFRS total operating profits were up 12 per cent at 657 million.
agreement with Capita, which commenced in April 2008.
The The increase was mainly due to the superior returns achieved on remaining 20 million per annum is expected to be generated from shareholder-backed annuity business, which were 194 million across the rest of the UK business by the end of 2010.
By the end higher than 2008, partly offset by a 114 million reduction in IFRS of 2009, a total of 156 million per annum of savings had been profits attributable to the with-profits business.
This decrease was delivered and Prudential UK expects that it will have achieved primarily due to bonus rate reductions in the February 2009 bonus its total cost savings target of 195 million per annum by the declaration.
Commission received on Prudential-branded General end of 2010.
Insurance products contributed 51 million to IFRS operating profits in 2009, 16 per cent higher than 2008.
This increase was Over time, the Capita contract is expected to result in the due to the substantial advance commissions received on the migration of approximately seven million in-force policies from a transfer of the business to Churchill in 2002 being fully amortised number of Prudential legacy IT systems to two Capita proprietary in March 2008, so that commissions earned are now received in full.
platforms, significantly enhancing operational performance and efficiencies.
The first migration from a legacy system to a Capita platform was completed during 2009.
57 Business unit review Asset management M&G ASSET MANAGEMENT M&G Global The Group's asset management businesses provide value to the insurance businesses within the Group by delivering sustained superior performance.
They are also important profit generators in their own right, having low capital requirements and generating significant cash flow for the Group.
We believe that our asset management businesses are well placed to capitalise on their leading market positions and strong track records in investment performance to deliver net flows and profit growth as well as strategically diversifying the Groups investment propositions in retail financial services markets that are increasingly favouring greater product transparency, greater cross-border opportunities and more open-architecture investment platforms.
Wholesale profit streams are also growing.
The Groups asset management businesses operate different models and under different brands tailored to their markets and strengths.
However, they continue to work together by managing money for each other with clear regional specialism, distributing each others products and sharing knowledge and expertise, such as credit research.
Each business and its performance in 2009 is summarised on the Michael McLintock following pages.
Chief Executive M&G 58 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW M&G 8 8 AER CER 2009 2008 Change 2008 Change m m % m % Net investment flows 13,478 3,407 296 3,407 296 Revenue 457 455 455 Other income 13 25 48 25 48 Staff costs 205 184 11 184 11 Other costs 100 111 10 111 10 Underlying profit before Performance-related Fees 165 185 11 185 11 Performance-related fees 12 43 72 43 72 Operating profit from asset management operations 177 228 22 228 22 Operating profit from Prudential Capital 61 58 5 58 5 Total IFRS operating profit 238 286 17 286 17 Funds Under Management FUM billion 174 141 23 141 23 Note: See page 25.
M&G comprises the M&G asset management business and Sales performance Prudential Capital.
M&G had an exceptional year in 2009, delivering record net fund inflows of 13.5 billion.
This 296 per cent year-on-year increase in M&Gs asset management business net new business can be attributed largely to the excellent longM&G is an investment-led business which aims to deliver superior term performance of both our retail and institutional investment long-term performance for third-party clients and the internal management teams.
funds of the Prudential Group.
M&G had an exceptional year in 2009, delivering Our strategy is to recruit and nurture leading investment talent.
record net fund inflows of 13.5 billion.
We seek to create an environment in which this talent will thrive and so deliver the level of returns that our clients expect of us.
Gross fund inflows rose 54 per cent to 24.9 billion.
These record As at 31 December 2009, M&Gs total funds under management inflows and the recovery of equity markets in the latter half of 2009 were 174 billion, including 70 billion of assets managed on led to a 23 per cent increase in M&Gs funds under management behalf of third-party retail and institutional clients.
As at 31 December 2009, 40 per cent of M&Gs funds under management were for third-party clients.
For all our clients, our goal is superior performance M&Gs Retail Business has had a particularly strong year, seeing over the longer term.
net inflows jump by 259 per cent over the year to 7.5 billion.
Gross fund sales were up 50 per cent at 13.6 billion.
Sales of our In the retail market, we aim to offer high-performing funds which top-performing fixed income funds accounted for the lions share are managed from our London headquarters and distributed in of inflows for most of the year before investor appetite switched to the UK and across Europe, mainly through intermediaries.
The our equity and property funds during the second half as sentiment diversity of our retail product range proved its worth in the recent turned more bullish.
market turmoil, as investors bought both our equity and fixed income funds.
The UK Retail Business had an especially good year, with net inflows rising by 216 per cent to 6.0 billion from 1.9 billion in In the institutional market, we provide third-party clients such as 2008.
This compared with total UK retail net sales of 25.8 billion pension funds with a range of traditional and specialist investment for the year source, IMA, 12 months to end of 2009. strategies, some of which have originally been developed for the Prudential internal funds.
Similarly, the Institutional Business attracted an exceptionally high level of net new business.
Net inflows were 6.0 billion, a rise of For all clients, our goal is superior performance over the longer 354 per cent on 2008.
They included the award of a single fixed term.
In the three years to December 2009, 38 per cent of M&Gs income mandate valued at 4 billion and 0.8 billion of net new 1 retail funds delivered top-quartile investment performance.
money into our leveraged loan funds.
Gross fund sales were up Over the same period, 89 per cent of M&Gs active institutional 59 per cent at 11.3 billion.
funds delivered returns ahead of their benchmarks.
Net sales remained robust in the fourth quarter.
The Retail Business attracted net new money of 1.8 billion, more than double the 0.7 billion taken in the same quarter in 2008.
Gross Retail sales were 3.8 billion.
The Institutional Business took 0.6 billion of net new business over the three months, compared with an outflow of 1.4 billion for the same period a year ago.
Gross sales were 93 per cent higher year-on-year at 2.7 billion.
59 Business unit review Asset management M&G continued M&G: record fund inflows In 2009, M&G attracted record net and gross fund inflows, at 13.5 billion and 24.9 billion respectively.
This outstanding achievement was the result of excellent long-term investment performance combined with a deeply-trusted brand and a high standard of client communications.
Total funds under management for both internal and third-party clients reached 174 billion by the end of 2009.
M&Gs goal is to deliver the level of investment performance its clients expect by nurturing and retaining some of the best talent in the fund management industry.
Financial performance Prudential Capital The collapse in investor confidence in the autumn of 2008 and the subsequent economic turmoil had a limited impact on that years Prudential Capital manages Prudentials balance sheet for profit by results, coming as it did late in the year.
Market levels are the single leveraging Prudentials market position.
This business has three most important determinant of our profits.
The average level of the strategic objectives: to operate a first-class wholesale and capital FT All Share Index during 2008 was 2,743.
Despite the recovery in markets interface: to realise profitable proprietary opportunities markets from March 2009 onwards, the average level of the FT All within a tightly-controlled risk framework: and to provide Share Index in 2009 was materially lower at 2,327. professional treasury services to Prudential.
Prudential Capital generates revenue by providing bridging finance, managing Continuing excellent investment performance in a number investments and operating a securities lending and cash of M&Gs flagship equity and bond funds gives grounds for management business for the Group and its clients.
confidence that M&G will continue to win a healthy share The business has consolidated its position in a period of difficult of new business.
and volatile markets, focusing on liquidity across the Group, management of existing asset portfolio and conservative levels of It is in this context that M&Gs IFRS operating profits fell to new investment.
Development of new product and infrastructure 177 million, 22 per cent lower than the record profits achieved in has continued, helping to maintain the dynamism and flexibility 2008.
However, if performance related fees, investment income, necessary to identify and realise opportunities for profit within carried interest on private equity investments and costs associated acceptable risk parameters.
Prudential Capital is committed to with the long-term incentive plan are excluded, M&Gs operating working closely with other business units across the Group to profit would display an underlying growth of 14 per cent in 2009 exploit opportunities and increase value creation for Prudential 182.0 million over 2008 159.5 million.
In particular, Prudential Capital offers to the Group M&G continues to provide capital efficient profits and cash a holistic view on hedging strategy, liquidity and capital generation for the Prudential Group, as well as strong investment management.
returns on the long-term business funds.
Return on capital of Prudential Capital has a diversified earnings base derived from 76 per cent and cash remittances of 93 million in 2009 provided its portfolio of secured loans, debt investments and the provision strong support for the Groups corporate objectives.
The business delivered a good Our cost income ratio was 65 per cent in 2009, increasing from financial result in 2009, considering prevailing market conditions.
The increase can largely be attributed to the As a result of sustained revenue and maintaining a low reinstatement of costs associated with the long-term incentive cost income ratio, IFRS operating profits increased by five per plan LTIP, as the medium-term outlook for the business cent to 61 million, resulting in a cash remittance to the Group improved in light of strong fund inflows and recovering market holding company of 82 million.
M&G remains focused on cost control.
Outlook The collapse in bank deposit rates to near-zero provided an exceptional backdrop to M&Gs sales performance in 2009 which will not be repeated in 2010.
Net sales are expected to return to more normal levels this year.
Nevertheless, continuing excellent investment performance in a number of M&Gs flagship equity and bond funds gives grounds for confidence that M&G will continue to win a healthy share of new business.
60 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW Business unit review Asset management Asia Asia 8 8 AER CER 2009 2008 Change 2008 Change m m % m % Net investment flows 1,999 855 134 1,044 91 Total IFRS operating profit 55 52 6 61 10 Funds Under Management FUM billion 19.5 15.2 28 13.9 40 Third-party customers Note: See page 25.
Introduction Financial performance Prudentials asset management business in Asia manages Asia Asset Management total funds under management as at investments for Prudential UK and the Asian life companies and 31 December 2009 is 42.4 billion and includes 4.2 billion of has also successfully leveraged these investment capabilities to assets from the Group, 18.7 billion from Prudential Corporation build a market leading third-party funds management business.
Asias life funds and 19.5 billion from third-party customers.
Compared to 2008, the overall FUM increased by 22 per cent Initiatives in 2009 excluding the FUM related to the sold Taiwan agency business.
Investment performance is one of the key drivers of success Third party net inflows were 2 billion driven principally by money for Asia Asset Management.
In 2009, 64 per cent of its funds market funds in India with strong net equity inflows in Japan and outperformed their peer benchmarks or were ranked within the UAE being offset by net outflows of equity funds in Korea and 1 the top-two performance quartiles among peers.
fixed income funds in India.
Fund launches were curtailed during 2009 given the market IFRS profit from fund management is 55 million, up six per cent conditions: however Asia Asset Management did successfully on the prior year.
Lower management fees were more than offset raise new funds in 2009 including 300 million US$469 million by stringent cost control.
The asset management business from a Qatar Fixed Maturity Plan Series in Dubai, 220 million requires very little capital to support its growth and in 2009 US$345 million from an equity fund in China and 109 million it remitted a net 33 million to the Group holding company.
US$170 million from a target return fund in India.
A new innovation was the Brazil Fund, launched in Taiwan that raised 94 million US$147 million.
Asia Asset Management has continued to build its retail distribution network across Asia.
For example, in Japan, the business has successfully established distribution relationships with mega distributors.
In China, CITIC-Prudential was awarded the prized Qualified Domestic Institutional Investors QDII licence in 2009 and in Malaysia, Asia Asset Management launched Prudential Al-Wara as its new Islamic fund management subsidiary.
Note 1 Based on a blend of 1-year and 3-year performance.
61 Business unit review Asset management United States US Asset Management 8 8 AER CER 2009 2008 Change 2008 Change PPM America m m % m % Total IFRS operating profit 6 2 200 2 200 PPM America PPMA manages assets for Prudentials US, UK Financial performance and Asian affiliates.
PPMA also provides other affiliated and IFRS operating profit in 2009 was 6 million, up from 2 million unaffiliated institutional clients with investment services including in 2008, primarily due to performance driven income.
collateralised debt obligations CDOs, private equity funds, Year-end 2009 funds under management of 47 billion were institutional accounts, and mutual funds.
PPMAs strategy is as follows: focused on managing existing assets effectively, maximising the benefits gleaned from synergies with our international asset PPMA funds under management bn management affiliates, and leveraging investment management Asia US UK Total capabilities across the Prudential Group.
PPMA also pursues third-party mandates on an opportunistic basis.
Insurance 29 12 41 Unitised 4 1 5 CDOs 1 1 Total 4 30 13 47 US broker-dealer 8 8 AER CER 2009 2008 Change 2008 Change Broker-dealer m m % m % Revenue 390 328 19 388 1 Costs 386 320 21 378 2 Total IFRS operating profit 4 8 50 10 60 National Planning Holdings NPH is Jacksons affiliated important retail distribution outlet, as well as receive valuable independent broker-dealer network.
The business comprises four insights into the needs of financial advisers and their clients.
broker-dealer firms, including National Planning Corporation, SII Investments, INVEST Financial Corporation and Investment Financial performance Centers of America.
NPH generated record revenues of 390 million during the year, up from 328 million in 2008, on gross 2009 product sales of The US broker-dealer business continued to grow through strong 9 billion.
NPHs 2009 IFRS operating profit of 4 million declined recruiting efforts.
By utilising our high-quality, state-of-the-art from 8 million in 2008.
NPH increased the number of registered technology, NPHs advisers receive the tools they need to operate advisers in the network by nearly 10 per cent to approximately their practices more efficiently.
At the same time, through its 3,478 at the end of 2009. relationship with NPH, Jackson continues to benefit from an Curian 8 8 AER CER 2009 2008 Change 2008 Change Curian m m % m % Gross investment flows 796 591 35 699 14 Revenue 25 24 4 28 11 Costs 31 27 15 32 3 Total IFRS operating loss 6 3 100 4 50 Curian Capital, Jacksons registered investment adviser, management throughout the year.
However, Curians growth in provides innovative fee-based separately-managed accounts deposits and assets under management rebounded in the second and investment products to advisers through a sophisticated half of 2009.
At the end of 2009, Curian had total assets under technology platform.
Curian expands Jacksons access to advisers management of 2.3 billion, compared to 1.8 billion at the end while also providing a complement to Jacksons core annuity of 2008.
Curian generated deposits of 796 million in 2009, up product lines.
The increase in both deposits and assets under management were mainly due to the rally in the equity Financial performance markets, with the S&P 500 index increasing 23.5 per cent during Curians IFRS operating loss increased in 2009 due to the 2009, and several growth initiatives implemented by Curian significant market disruption and lower average assets under throughout the year.
