GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 66 Business review continued There is currently no restriction in respect of deferred tax assets losses, impairments and write-downs with respect to assets not covered recognised by the Group for regulatory purposes.
Therefore, there can be no assurance that any regulatory regulatory rules may restrict the amount of deferred tax assets that can capital benefits and the additional Core Tier 1 capital will be sufficient to be recognised and such changes could lead to a reduction in the maintain the Groups capital ratios at the requisite levels in the event of Groups Core Tier 1 capital ratio.
In particular, on 17 December 2009, further losses even with the 8 billion Contingent B shares.
If the the Basel Committee published a consultative document setting out Group is unable to improve its capital ratios sufficiently or to maintain its certain proposed changes to capital requirements see the risk factor capital ratios in the event of further losses, its business, results of headed The Groups business performance could be adversely operations and financial condition will suffer, its credit ratings may fall, affected if its capital is not managed effectively or if there are changes its ability to lend and access funding will be further limited and its cost to capital adequacy and liquidity requirements above.
Those of funding may increase.
The occurrence of any or all of such events proposals included a requirement that deferred tax assets which rely on may cause the companys share price to decline substantially and may future profitability of the Group to be realised should be deducted from result in intervention by the Authorities, which could include full the common equity component of Tier 1 and therefore not count nationalisation or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act.
Any compensation payable to shareholders would be subject to the provisions of the Banking Act, and shareholders may receive no value Risks relating to the Groups participation in the APS for their shares.
Owing to the complexity, scale and unique nature of the APS and the uncertainty surrounding the duration and severity of the current In the event that the Groups Core Tier 1 capital ratio declines to below 5 economic recession, there may be unforeseen issues and risks that are per cent.
HM Treasury is committed to subscribe for up to an additional relevant in the context of the Groups participation in the APS and in the 8 billion of Contingent B shares if certain conditions are met.
If such impact of the APS on the Groups business, operations and financial conditions are not met, and the Group is unable to issue the 8 billion condition.
In addition, the assets or exposures to be covered by the APS Contingent B shares, the Group may be unable to find alternative may not be those with the greatest future losses or with the greatest methods of obtaining protection for stressed losses against severe or need for protection.
prolonged recessionary periods in the economic cycle and improving its Since the APS is a unique form of credit protection over a complex capital ratios, with the result that the Group may face increased risk of range of diversified Covered Assets in a number of jurisdictions and full nationalisation or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act.
there is significant uncertainty about the duration and severity of the In the event that the Groups Core Tier 1 capital ratio declines to below 5 current economic recession, there may be unforeseen issues and risks per cent.
HM Treasury is committed to subscribe for up to an additional that may arise as a result of the Groups participation in the APS and 8 billion of Contingent B shares if certain conditions are met.
Such the impact of the APS on the Groups business, operations and financial conditions include that the Commissions decision that the State aid is condition cannot be predicted with certainty.
Such issues or risks may compatible with article 87 of the consolidated version of the Treaty have a material adverse effect on the Group.
Moreover, the Groups establishing the European Community continues to be in force, that the choice of assets or exposures covered by the APS was based on Commission has not opened a formal investigation under article 88 2 of predictions at the time of its accession to the APS regarding the such Treaty in relation to the possible misuse of State aid, that there has performance of counterparties and assumptions about market been no breach by the company of the State Aid Commitment Deed dynamics and asset and liability pricing, all or some of which may prove and that no Termination Event has occurred.
There is, therefore, a risk that the Covered Assets will not be those with the greatest future losses or with the greatest need for If such conditions are not met, and the Group is unable to issue the 8 protection and, as a result, the Groups financial condition, income from billion Contingent B shares, the Group may be unable to find alternative operations and the value of any securities may still suffer due to further methods of obtaining protection for stressed losses against severe or impairments and credit write-downs.
prolonged recessionary periods in the economic cycle and improving its capital ratios, with the result that the Group may face increased risk of There is no assurance that the Groups participation in the APS and the full nationalisation or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act.
issue of 25.5 billion of B shares and, if required, the 8 billion Contingent B shares will achieve the Groups goals of improving and In these circumstances, if the Group is unable to issue the 8 billion maintaining the Groups capital ratios in the event of further losses.
Contingent B shares, the Group will need to assess its strategic and Accordingly, the Groups participation in the APS and the issue of operational position and will be required to find alternative methods for 25.5 billion of B shares and, if required, the 8 billion Contingent B achieving the requisite capital ratios.
Such methods could include an shares may not improve market confidence in the Group and the Group accelerated reduction in risk-weighted assets, disposals of certain may still face the risk of full nationalisation or other resolution businesses, increased issuance of Tier 1 capital securities, increased procedures under the Banking Act.
reliance on alternative government-supported liquidity schemes and The Groups participation in the APS, together with the recent issue of other forms of government assistance.
There can be no assurance that 25.5 billion of B shares and, if required, the 8 billion Contingent B any of these alternative methods will be available or would be shares, has improved its consolidated capital ratios.
However, the Group successful in increasing the Groups capital ratios to the desired or remains exposed to a substantial first loss amount of 60 billion in requisite levels.
If the Group is unable to issue the 8 billion Contingent respect of the Covered Assets and for 10 per cent.
of Covered Assets B shares, the Groups business, results of operations, financial condition losses after the first loss amount.
In addition, as mentioned in the and capital position and ratios will suffer, its credit ratings may drop, its previous risk factor, the assets or exposures to be covered by the APS ability to lend and access funding will be further limited and its cost of may not be those with the greatest future losses or with the greatest funding may increase.
The occurrence of any or all of such events may need for protection.
Moreover, the Group continues to carry the risk of cause the price of its securities to decline substantially and may result 66 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 67 Business review in intervention by the Authorities or other regulatory bodies in the other cease to be protected by the APS.
HM Treasury may also require the jurisdictions in which the company and its subsidiaries operate, which withdrawal or the company may itself consider it necessary to withdraw could include full nationalisation, other resolution procedures under the Covered Assets held in certain jurisdictions where disclosure of certain Banking Act or revocation of permits and licences necessary to conduct information to HM Treasury may result in a breach of banking secrecy, the Groups businesses.
Any compensation payable to holders of confidentiality, data protection or similar laws.
In addition, 3 billion of securities would be subject to the provisions of the Banking Act, and derivative and structured finance assets have been included in the APS investors may receive no value for their securities see the risk factor which, for technical reasons, do not currently, or are anticipated at some headed the company and its UK bank subsidiaries may face the risk of stage not to, satisfy the eligibility requirements specified in the Scheme full nationalisation or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act Documents.
HM Treasury and the Royal Bank have agreed to negotiate above.
in good faith to establish as soon as practicable whether and if so, to what extent coverage should extend to certain derivative assets.
In The Group may have included Covered Assets that are ineligible or that addition, the Group has issued a withdrawal notice in respect of later become ineligible for protection under the APS.
Protection under approximately 1.2 billion of Covered Assets across a broad range of the APS may be limited or may cease to be available where Covered asset classes in order to take them out of the APS.
The effect of Assets are not correctly or sufficiently logged or described, where a i failures to be eligible and or to log or correctly describe Covered Covered Asset is disposed of in whole or in part prior to a Trigger, Assets, ii disposals of Covered Assets prior to a Trigger, iii the where the terms of the APS do not apply or are uncertain in their uncertainty of certain Scheme Conditions and the exclusion of certain application, where the terms of the protection itself potentially give rise assets and exposures from the APS and potential lack of legal certainty, to legal uncertainty, where certain criminal conduct has or may have iv the occurrence of material or systemic criminal conduct on the part occurred or where a breach of bank secrecy, confidentiality, data of the company or its representatives relating to or affecting Covered protection or similar laws may occur.
In addition, certain assets included Assets or breach of banking secrecy, confidentiality, data protection or in the APS do not satisfy the eligibility requirements of the Scheme similar laws and v failure or potential failure of HM Treasury and the Documents.
In each case this would reduce the anticipated benefits to Royal Bank to reach agreement in respect of whether and if so, to what the Group of the APS.
extent cover should extend to certain ineligible assets, may or, in The Covered Assets comprise a wide variety and a very large number respect of assets which HM Treasury and the company have agreed are of complex assets and exposures.
As a result of the significant volume, ineligible, will impact the enforceability and or level of protection variety and complexity of assets and exposures and the resulting available to the Group and may materially reduce the protection complexity of the Scheme Documents, there is a risk that the Group anticipated by the Group for its stressed losses.
Further, there is no may have included assets or exposures within the Covered Assets that ability to nominate additional or alternative assets or exposures in place are not eligible for protection under the APS, with the result that such of those which turn out not to be covered under the APS.
If the Group is assets or exposures may not be protected by the APS.
Furthermore, if then unable to find alternative methods for improving and maintaining its Covered Assets are not correctly or sufficiently logged or described for capital ratios, its business, results of operations and financial condition the purposes of the APS, protection under the APS may, in certain will suffer, its credit ratings may drop, its ability to lend and access circumstances and subject to certain conditions, not be available or funding will be further limited and its cost of funding may increase.
The may be limited, including by potentially being limited to the terms of the occurrence of any or all of such events may cause the price of the assets as logged.
If a Covered Asset is disposed of prior to the securities to decline substantially and may result in intervention by the occurrence of a Trigger in respect of that Covered Asset, the Group will Authorities, which could include full nationalisation or other resolution also lose protection under the APS in respect of that disposed asset or, procedures under the Banking Act.
Any compensation payable to if the Covered Asset is disposed of in part, in respect of that disposed holders of securities would be subject to the provisions of the Banking part of the Covered Asset or in some circumstances all of the Covered Act, and investors may receive no value for their securities.
Asset, in each case with no rebate of the fee payable to HM Treasury, unless an agreement otherwise is reached with HM Treasury at the During the life of the APS, certain or all of the Covered Assets may relevant time.
Moreover, since the terms of the credit protection cease to be protected due to a failure to comply with continuing available under the APS are broad and general given the scale and obligations under the APS, reducing the benefit of the APS to the Group.
purpose of the APS and the wide variety and very large number of The Group is subject to limitations on actions it can take in respect of complex assets and exposures intended to be included as Covered the Covered Assets and certain related assets and to extensive Assets and also very complex and in some instances operationally continuing obligations under the Scheme Conditions relating to restrictive, certain Scheme Conditions may not apply to particular governance, asset management, audit and reporting.
The Groups assets, exposures or operational scenarios or their applicability may be compliance with the Scheme Conditions is dependent on its ability to uncertain for example, in respect of overdrafts.
In addition, many of i implement efficiently and accurately new approval processes and these provisions apply from 31 December 2008 and therefore may not reporting, governance and management systems in accordance with have been complied with between this date and the date of the the Scheme Conditions and ii comply with applicable laws and companys accession to the APS.
In each case this may result in a loss regulations where it does business.
The Group has complex and or reduction of protection.
There are certain limited terms and geographically diverse operations, and operational risk in the context of conditions of the Scheme Conditions which are framed in such a way the APS may result from errors by employees or third-parties, failure to that may give rise to lack of legal certainty.
Furthermore, if a member of document transactions or procedures properly or to obtain proper the Group becomes aware after due and reasonable enquiry that there authorisations in accordance with the Scheme Conditions, equipment has been any material or systemic criminal conduct on the part of the failures or the inadequacy or failure of systems and controls.
Although Group including its directors, officers and employees relating to or the Group has devoted substantial financial and operational resources, affecting any of the Covered Assets, some or all of those assets may and intends to devote further substantial resources, to developing RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 67 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 68 Business review continued efficient procedures to deal with the requirements of the APS and to HM Treasury can only effect a modification or replacement of a Scheme training staff, it is not possible to be certain that such actions will be Condition if i it is consistent with each of the Scheme Principles, effective to control each of the operational risks faced by the Group or ii there has been no formal notification from the FSA that such to provide the necessary information in the necessary time periods in modification would result in any protection provided to the Royal Bank the context of the APS.
Since the Groups operational systems were not under the APS ceasing to satisfy certain requirements for eligible credit originally designed to facilitate compliance with these extensive risk mitigation and iii HM Treasury has considered in good faith and continuing obligations, there is a risk that the Group will fail to comply had regard to any submissions, communications or representations of with a number of these obligations.
This risk is particularly acute in the or made by the Royal Bank regarding the anticipated impact of the period immediately following the APS becoming effective.
Certain of the proposed modification under any non-UK capital adequacy regime reporting requirements, in particular, are broad in their required scope which is binding on the Royal Bank or a Covered Entity.
and challenging in their required timing.
There is, as a result, a real possibility that the company, at least initially, will not be able to achieve Such modifications or replacements may be retrospective and may full compliance.
Where the Group is in breach of its continuing result in a loss of or reduction in the protection expected by the Group obligations under the Scheme Conditions in respect of any of the under the APS in relation to certain Covered Assets, an increase in the Covered Assets, related assets or other obligations, or otherwise unable risk weightings of the Covered Assets either in the UK or overseas, a to provide or verify information required under the APS within the material increase in the continuing reporting obligations or asset requisite time periods, recovery of losses under the APS may be management conditions applicable to the Group under the Scheme adversely impacted, may lead to an indemnity claim and HM Treasury Conditions or a material increase in the expenses incurred or costs may in addition have the right to exercise certain step-in rights, payable by the Royal Bank under the APS.
Modifications by including the right to require the company to appoint a step-in manager HM Treasury of the Scheme Conditions could result in restrictions or who may exercise oversight, direct management rights and certain other limitations on the Groups operations.
The consequences of any such rights including the right to modify certain of the Groups strategies, modifications by HM Treasury are impossible to quantify and are difficult policies or systems.
Therefore, there is a risk that Covered Assets in to predict and may have a material adverse effect on the Groups relation to which the Group has failed to comply with its continuing financial condition and results of operations.
obligations under the Scheme Conditions, will not be protected or fully protected by the APS.
As there is no ability to nominate additional or Owing to the complexity of the APS and possible regulatory capital alternative assets or exposures for cover under the APS, the effect of developments, the operation of the APS and the issue of 25.5 billion of such failures will impact the level of protection available to the Group B shares and, if required, the 8 billion Contingent B shares may fail to and may reduce or eliminate in its entirety the protection anticipated by achieve the desired effect on the Groups regulatory capital position.
This the Group for its stressed losses, in which case its business, results of may mean the Groups participation in the APS and the issuance of operations and financial condition will suffer, its credit ratings may drop, 25.5 billion of B shares and, if required, the 8 billion Contingent B its ability to lend and access funding will be further limited and its cost shares does not improve market confidence in the Group sufficiently or of funding may increase.
The occurrence of any or all of such events at all.
This may result in the Group facing the risk of full nationalisation may cause the price of the securities to decline substantially and may or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act.
result in intervention by the Authorities, which could include full One of the key objectives of the APS and the recent issuance of nationalisation or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act.
25.5 billion of B shares and, if required, the 8 billion Contingent B Any compensation payable to holders of securities would be subject to shares was to improve capital ratios at a consolidated level for the the provisions of the Banking Act, and investors may receive no value Group and at an individual level for certain relevant Group members.
The Royal Bank will or may in the future enter into certain back-to-back arrangements with Group members holding assets or exposures to be The Scheme Conditions may be modified by HM Treasury in certain covered by the APS in order to ensure the capital ratios of these entities prescribed circumstances, which could result in a loss or reduction in the are also improved by virtue of the APS.
As the APS and certain of the protection provided under the APS in relation to certain Covered Assets, associated back-to-back arrangements are a unique form of credit increased costs to the Group in respect of the APS or limitations on the protection over a complex range of diversified Covered Assets in a Groups operations.
number of jurisdictions, there is a risk that the interpretation of the HM Treasury may, following consultation with the company, modify or relevant regulatory capital requirements by one or more of the relevant replace certain of the Scheme Conditions in such a manner as it regulatory authorities may differ from that assumed by the Group, with considers necessary acting reasonably to: the result that the anticipated improvement to the Groups capital ratios will not be fully achieved.
There is a further risk that, given that the remove or reduce or remedy the effects of any conflict between: current regulatory capital requirements and the regulatory bodies i the operation, interpretation or application of certain Scheme governing these requirements are subject to unprecedented levels of Conditions: and ii any of the overarching principles governing the review and scrutiny both globally and locally, regulatory capital APS: treatment that differs from that assumed by the Group in respect of the APS, the treatment of the B share issuance or the back-to-back correct any manifest error contained in certain Scheme Conditions: arrangement may also occur because of changes in law or regulation, or regulatory bodies or interpretation of the regulatory capital regimes applicable to the Group and or the APS and or the B shares and or the take account of any change in law.
If participation in the APS and the issuance of 25.5 billion of B shares and, if required, the 8 billion Contingent B shares are not sufficient to maintain the Groups 68 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 69 Business review capital ratios, this could cause the Groups business, results of systems in order to comply with reporting obligations required by the operations and financial condition to suffer, its credit rating to drop, its APS and the Royal Banks obligations under the Scheme Conditions to ability to lend and access to funding to be further limited and its cost of pay HM Treasurys and its advisers costs in relation to the APS.
The occurrence of any or all of such events may addition, the Group has certain other financial exposures in connection cause the price of the securities to decline substantially and may result with the APS including i an obligation to indemnify HM Treasury, any in intervention by the Authorities, which could include full nationalisation governmental entity or their representatives and ii for the minimum twoor other resolution procedures under the Banking Act.
Any year period from a Trigger until payment is made by HM Treasury under compensation payable to holders of securities would be subject to the the APS, exposure to the funding costs of retaining assets and provisions of the Banking Act and investors may receive no value for exposures on its balance sheet whilst receiving interest based on the their securities.
Sterling General Collateral Repo Rate as displayed on the Bloomberg service, or such other rate as may be notified by HM Treasury from time The costs of the Groups participation in the APS may be greater than to time as reflecting its costs of funds.
The aggregate effect of the the amounts received thereunder.
joining, establishment and operational costs of the APS and the onThe costs of participating in the APS incurred by the Group to going costs and expenses, including professional advisers costs, may HM Treasury include a fee of 700 million, paid in advance for the first significantly reduce or even eliminate the anticipated amounts to be three years of the APS and 500 million per annum thereafter until the received by the Group under the APS.
earlier of i the date of termination of the APS and ii 31 December 2099.
The fee may be paid in cash or, subject to HM Treasury consent, The amounts received under the APS which amounts are difficult to by the waiver of certain UK tax reliefs that are treated as deferred tax quantify precisely may be less than the costs of participation, as assets pursuant to the three agreements which provide the right, at the described above.
There are other, non-cash, anticipated benefits of the companys option, subject to HM Treasury consent, to satisfy all or part Groups participation, which include the regulatory capital benefits of the annual fee in respect of the APS and 8 billion of B shares and referred to above and the potential protection from future losses, which the dividend payments if made on the 25.5 billion of B shares, and are themselves also difficult to quantify.
the exit fee payable in connection with any termination of the Groups participation in the APS, by waiving the right to certain UK tax reliefs The company may have to repay any net pay-outs made by HM Treasury that are treated as deferred tax assets Tax Loss Waiver or be funded under the APS in order to terminate its participation in the APS.
by a further issue of B shares to HM Treasury.
On exit the fees During its participation in the APS, the Royal Bank will pay an annual described in the risk factor below entitled the company may have to participation fee to HM Treasury.
The annual fee, which is payable in repay any net pay-outs made by HM Treasury under the APS in order to advance, is 700 million per annum for the first three years of the terminate its participation in the APS will apply.
Furthermore, the Group companys participation in the APS and 500 million per annum may be subject to additional liabilities in connection with the associated thereafter until the earlier of i the date of termination of the APS and intra group arrangements.
Significant costs either have been or will also ii 31 December 2099.
Pursuant to the Accession Agreement and the be incurred in i establishing the APS including a portion of Tax Loss Waiver, subject to HM Treasury consent, all or part of the exit HM Treasurys costs attributed to the Royal Bank by HM Treasury, fee but not the refund of the net payments the Royal Bank has received ii implementing the APS, including the companys internal systems from HM Treasury under the APS may be paid by the waiver of certain building and as a consequence of its on-going management and UK tax reliefs that are treated as deferred tax assets pursuant to the administration obligations under the Scheme Conditions, such as Tax Loss Waiver.
The Directors may, in the future, conclude that the complying with a the extensive governance, reporting, auditing and cost of this annual fee, in combination with the other costs of the other continuing obligations of the APS and b the asset management Groups participation in the APS, outweighs the benefits of the Groups objective which is generally applied at all times to the Covered Assets continued participation and therefore that the Groups participation in and will require increased lending in certain circumstances and the APS should be terminated.
However, in order to terminate the iii paying the five-year annual fee for the initial B shares and the Groups participation in the APS, the Group must have FSA approval Contingent Subscription of 320 million less 4 per cent.
of: a the value and pay an exit fee which is an amount equal to a the larger of i the of any B shares subscribed for under the Contingent Subscription: and cumulative aggregate fee of 2.5 billion and ii 10 per cent.
of the b the amount by which the Contingent Subscription has been reduced annual aggregate reduction in Pillar I capital requirements in respect of pursuant to any exercise by the company of a partial termination of the the assets covered by the APS up to the time of exit less b the Contingent Subscription payable in cash or, with HM Treasurys aggregate of the annual fees paid up to the date of exit.
In the event consent, by waiving certain UK tax reliefs that are treated as deferred that the Group has received payments from HM Treasury under the APS tax assets pursuant to the Tax Loss Waiver, or funded by a further in respect of losses on any Triggered Assets, it must either negotiate a issue of B shares to HM Treasury.
In addition, there will be ongoing satisfactory exit payment to exit the APS, or absent such agreement, expenses associated with compliance with the Scheme Conditions, refund to HM Treasury any net payments made by HM Treasury under including the Royal Bank and HM Treasurys professional advisers costs the APS in respect of losses on the Triggered Assets.
These expenses are expected to be significant due to the complexity of the APS, the need to enhance the Groups existing RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 69 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 70 Business review continued The effect of the payment of the exit fee and potentially the refund of HM Treasury to other government agencies, the UK Parliament, the the net pay-outs it has received from HM Treasury under the APS may European Commission, and more widely if HM Treasury determines that significantly reduce or even eliminate the anticipated further regulatory doing so is required, for example, to protect the stability of the UK capital benefits to the Group of its participation in the APS or if FSA financial system.
approval for the proposed termination is not obtained and could have an adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and results of Moreover, HM Treasury has the right under the Scheme Conditions to operation or result in a loss of value in its securities.
Alternatively, if the appoint one or more step-in managers identified or agreed to by Group is unable to repay to HM Treasury in full the exit fee and HM Treasury to exercise certain step-in rights upon the occurrence of potentially the net pay-outs it has received under the APS and, therefore, certain specified events.
The step-in rights are extensive and include unable to terminate its participation in the APS, the Group will be certain oversight, investigation, approval and other rights, the right to required under the Scheme Conditions to continue to pay the annual fee require the modification or replacement of any of the systems, controls, to HM Treasury until 31 December 2099, which could have an adverse processes and practices of the Group and extensive rights in relation to impact on the Groups financial condition and results of operation or the direct management and administration of the Covered Assets.
If the result in a loss of value in its securities.
Royal Bank does not comply with the instructions of the step-in manager, once appointed, the Royal Bank may lose protection under the Under certain circumstances, the company cannot be assured that APS in respect of all or some of the Covered Assets.
The step-in assets of ABN AMRO and certain other entities will continue to be manager may be a person identified by HM Treasury and not by the covered under the APS, either as a result of a withdrawal of such assets company.
or as a result of a breach of the relevant obligations.
If HM Treasury seeks to exercise its right to appoint one or more step-in The payment obligations of HM Treasury under the Scheme Documents managers in relation to the management and administration of Covered are capable of being transferred to any third party provided the Assets held by ABN AMRO or its wholly owned subsidiaries, transfer does not affect the risk weightings the company is entitled to ABN AMRO will, in certain circumstances, need to seek consent from apply to its exposures to Covered Assets.
The step-in rights, together the Dutch Central Bank to allow it to comply with such step-in.
If this with all other monitoring, administration and enforcement rights, powers consent is not obtained by the date which will fall no less than and discretions of HM Treasury under the Scheme Documents, are 10 business days after the notice from HM Treasury on which the stepcapable of being transferred to any government entity.
in rights must be effective, and other options to effect compliance are not possible at all or because the costs involved prove prohibitive, The obligations of the Group and the rights of HM Treasury may, those assets would need to be withdrawn by the Royal Bank from the individually or in the aggregate, impact the way the Group runs its APS where permissible under the Scheme Conditions or, otherwise, with business and may serve to limit the Groups operations with the result HM Treasury consent.
If the Royal Bank cannot withdraw such Covered that the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition Assets from the APS, it would be likely to lose protection in respect of will suffer.
these assets under the APS and or may be liable under its indemnity to HM Treasury.
If the Royal Bank loses cover under the APS in respect of Any conversion of the B shares, in combination with any future purchase any Covered Asset held by ABN AMRO or its wholly owned subsidiaries, by HM Treasury of ordinary shares, would increase HM Treasurys any losses incurred on such asset will continue to be borne fully by the ownership interest in the company, and could result in the delisting of the company and may have a material adverse impact on its financial companys securities.
condition, profitability and capital ratios.
Similar issues apply in certain On 22 December the company issued 25.5 billion of B shares to HM other jurisdictions but the relevant Covered Assets are of a lower Treasury.
The B shares are convertible, at the option of the holder at any quantum.
time, into ordinary shares at an initial conversion price of 0.50 per ordinary share.
Although HM Treasury has agreed not to convert any The extensive governance, asset management and information B shares it holds if, as a result of such conversion, it would hold more requirements under the Scheme Conditions and HM Treasurys step-in than 75 per cent.
of the ordinary shares, if HM Treasury were to acquire rights may serve to limit materially the Groups operations.
In addition, additional ordinary shares otherwise than through the conversion of the the markets reaction to such controls and limitations may have an B shares, such additional acquisitions could significantly increase adverse impact on the price of the companys securities.
HM Treasurys ownership interest in the company to above 75 per cent.
Under the Scheme Conditions, the Group has extensive governance, of the companys ordinary issued share capital, which would put the asset management, audit and information obligations aimed at ensuring company in breach of the Listing Rules requirement that at least 25 per amongst other things that i there is no prejudice to, discrimination cent.
of its issued ordinary share capital must be in public hands.
against, or disproportionate adverse effect on the management and Although the company may apply to the UKLA for a waiver in such administration of Covered Assets when compared with the management circumstances, there is no guarantee that such a waiver would be and administration of other assets of the Group that are outside of the granted, the result of which could be the delisting of the company from APS and ii HM Treasury is able to manage and assess its exposure the Official List and potentially other exchanges where its securities are under the APS, perform any other functions within HM Treasurys currently listed and traded.
In addition, HM Treasury will not be entitled responsibilities or protect or enhance the stability of the UK financial to vote in respect of the B shares or in respect of the Dividend Access system.
Any information obtained by HM Treasury through its Share to the extent, but only to the extent, that votes cast on such information rights under the APS may be further disclosed by B shares and or on such Dividend Access Share, together with any 70 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 71 Business review other votes which HM Treasury is entitled to cast in respect of any other unascertainable factors including the extent of future losses, the extent ordinary shares held by or on behalf of HM Treasury, would exceed to which the Group regains profitability and any changes in tax law.
of the total votes eligible to be cast on a resolution addition to suffering greater tax liabilities in future years as a result of presented at a general meeting of the company.
the Tax Loss Waiver, the Group may also be subject to further tax liabilities in the UK and overseas in connection with the APS and the Any purchase of B shares by HM Treasury will, when taken together with associated intra-group arrangements which would not otherwise have its existing holding of ordinary shares, increase its economic interest in arisen.
The Tax Loss Waiver provides that the Group will not be the company and will have a corresponding dilutive effect on other the permitted to enter into arrangements which have a main purpose of company shareholders in respect of a winding up and the payment of reducing the net cost of the Tax Loss Waiver.
It is unclear precisely how dividends.
these restrictions will apply, but it is possible that they may limit the The issue by the company to HM Treasury of 25.5 billion of B shares at operations and future post-tax profitability of the Group.
the time it acceded to the APS increased HM Treasurys economic interest in the company to 84.4 per cent.
In addition, HM Treasury has In order to fulfil its disclosure obligations under the APS, the Group may committed to subscribe for up to an additional 8 billion in aggregate incur the risk of civil suits, criminal liability or regulatory actions.
amount of Contingent B shares for the Contingent Period, if certain The Scheme Conditions require that certain information in relation to the conditions are met.
Following such additional issuance, and assuming Covered Assets be disclosed to HM Treasury to enable HM Treasury to no other dilutive issuances, HM Treasurys economic interest in the quantify, manage and assess its exposure under the APS.
The FSA has company would increase further to 86.4 per cent.
In addition, issued notices to the Royal Bank requiring the information that HM Treasurys economic interest in the company would also increase if HM Treasury requires under the Scheme Documents prior to the the company elects to issue B shares to HM Treasury as a means of Groups accession to and participation in the APS and certain other paying the annual fee due under the APS or the Contingent Subscription information which HM Treasury required under the Scheme Documents both of which would require the consent of HM Treasury, or to fund following the Groups accession, be provided to it through its powers dividend payments under the terms of the Dividend Access Share.
As under the FSMA and the Banking Act.
To the extent regulated by the the B shares rank pari passu with the ordinary shares on a winding-up FSA, the Group has a legal obligation to comply with these disclosure and the Dividend Access Share entitles HM Treasury to an enhanced requests from the FSA.
However, in complying with these disclosure dividend calculated on the basis of the number of B shares issued, any obligations and providing such information to the FSA, the Group may, in increase in HM Treasurys economic interest in the company will have a certain jurisdictions, incur the risk of civil suits or regulatory action corresponding dilutive effect on other shareholders in the event of a which could include fines to the extent that disclosing information winding-up and in respect of the payment of dividends.
related to the Covered Assets results in the Group breaching common law or statutory confidentiality laws, contractual undertakings, data A significant proportion of senior managements time and resources will protection laws, banking secrecy and other laws restricting disclosure.
have to be committed to the APS, which may have a material adverse There can be no guarantee that future requests for information will be effect on the rest of the Groups business.
made by the FSA in the same manner.
Requests made directly by The Group expects that significant senior management and key HM Treasury pursuant to the terms of the APS are likely to expose the employee time and resources will have to be committed to the ongoing Group to a greater risk of such suits or regulatory action.
Adverse operation of the APS, including governance, asset management and regulatory action or adverse judgments in litigation could result in a reporting and generally to ensure compliance with the Scheme material adverse effect on the Groups reputation or results of Conditions.
The time and resources required to be committed to the operations or result in a loss of value in the securities.
Alternatively, in APS by the Groups senior management and other key employees is order to avoid the risk of such civil suits or regulatory actions or to avoid likely to place significant additional demands on senior management in the risk of criminal liability, the Group may choose to or in the case of addition to the time and resources required to be dedicated to the rest criminal liability be required to remove Covered Assets from the APS so of the Groups business.
In addition, and separately from the Groups as not to be required to disclose to HM Treasury, such information, with participation in the APS, significant headcount reductions are being the result that such assets will not be protected by the APS.
The effect introduced at all levels of management in the context of a restructuring of the removal of such Covered Assets will impact the level of of the Group.
The Groups ability to implement its overall strategy protection available to the Group and may materially reduce the depends on the availability of its senior management and other key protection anticipated by the Group for its stressed losses, in which employees.
If the Group is unable to dedicate sufficient senior case its business, results of operations and financial condition will management resources to the Groups business outside the APS, its suffer.
business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer.
Where the Group discloses information to HM Treasury as set out above, The cost of the Tax Loss Waiver and related undertakings is uncertain HM Treasury may disclose that information to a number of third parties and the Group may be subject to additional tax liabilities in connection for certain specified purposes.
Such disclosures by HM Treasury may with the APS.
put the Group in breach of common law or statutory confidentiality laws, It is difficult to value accurately the cost to the Group if the company contractual undertakings, data protection laws, banking secrecy or other opts, subject to HM Treasury consent, to satisfy the annual fee in laws restricting disclosure.
respect of both the APS and the Contingent Subscription and any exit fee payable to terminate the Groups participation in the APS by waiving certain UK tax reliefs that are treated as deferred tax assets pursuant to the Tax Loss Waiver.
The cost will depend on RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 71
