GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 55 Business review Risk factors transferring the securities free from any contractual or legislative Set out below are certain risk factors which could affect the Groups restrictions on transfer: future results and cause them to be materially different from expected results.
The Groups results are also affected by competition and other transferring the securities free from any trust, liability or factors.
The factors discussed in this report should not be regarded encumbrance: as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
extinguishing any rights to acquire securities: Risks relating to the company delisting the securities: The company and its UK bank subsidiaries may face the risk of full nationalisation or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act.
converting the securities into another form or class including, for Under the provisions of the Banking Act, substantial powers have been example, into equity securities : or granted to the Authorities as part of the Special Resolution Regime to stabilise banks that are in financial difficulties the SRR.
The SRR disapplying any termination or acceleration rights or events of default confers powers on the Bank of England: i to transfer to the private under the terms of the securities which would be triggered by the sector all or part of the business of a UK incorporated institution with transfer.
permission to accept deposits pursuant to Part IV of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA a relevant entity : ii to Where HM Treasury has made a share transfer order in respect of transfer all or part of the business of the relevant entity to a bridge securities issued by the holding company of a relevant entity, bank established by the Bank of England: and also confers a power on HM Treasury may make an order providing for the property, rights or HM Treasury to transfer into temporary public ownership liabilities of the holding company or of any relevant entity in the holding nationalisation the relevant entity or its UK-incorporated holding company group to be transferred and where such property is held on company.
The Banking Act also provides for two new insolvency and trust, removing or altering the terms of such trust.
administration procedures for relevant entities.
Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the taking of any such The purpose of the stabilisation options is to address the situation actions would not adversely affect the rights of holders of securities where all or part of the business of a relevant entity has encountered, or and or adversely affect the price or value of their investment or that the is likely to encounter, financial difficulties.
Accordingly, the stabilisation ability of the company to satisfy its obligations under contracts related options may only be exercised if the FSA is satisfied that i a relevant to securities would be unaffected.
In such circumstances, such holders entity such as the companys UK banking subsidiaries, including the may have a claim for compensation under one of the compensation Royal Bank and NatWest, is failing, or is likely to fail, to satisfy the schemes currently existing under, or contemplated by, the Banking Act threshold conditions set out in Schedule 6 to the FSMA, and ii having if any action is taken in respect of securities for the purposes of regard to timing and other relevant circumstances, it is not reasonably determining an amount of compensation, an independent valuer must likely that ignoring the stabilisation options action will be taken that will disregard actual or potential financial assistance provided by the Bank enable the relevant entity to satisfy those threshold conditions.
The of England or HM Treasury.
There can be no assurance that holders of threshold conditions are conditions which an FSA authorised institution securities would thereby recover compensation promptly and or equal to must satisfy in order to retain its FSA authorisation.
They are relatively any loss actually incurred.
wide-ranging and deal with most aspects of a relevant entitys business, including, but not limited to, minimum capital resource requirements.
It is If the company was taken into temporary public ownership and a partial therefore possible that the FSA may trigger one of the stabilisation transfer of its or any relevant entitys business was effected, or if a options before an application for an insolvency or administration order relevant entity were made subject to the SRR and a partial transfer of its could be made.
business to another entity was effected, the transfer may directly affect the company and or its Group companies by creating, modifying or The stabilisation options may be exercised by means of powers to cancelling their contractual arrangements with a view to ensuring the transfer property, rights or liabilities of a relevant entity and shares and provision of such services and facilities as are required to enable the other securities issued by a relevant entity.
HM Treasury may also take bridge bank or private sector purchaser to operate the transferred the parent company of a relevant entity such as the company into business or any part of it effectively.
For example, the transfer may temporary public ownership provided that certain conditions set out in among other things i require the company or Group companies to Section 82 of the Banking Act are met.
Temporary public ownership is support and cooperate with the bridge bank or private sector purchaser, effected by way of a share transfer order and can be actioned ii cancel or modify contracts or arrangements between the company or irrespective of the financial condition of the parent company.
the transferred business and a Group company, or iii impose additional obligations on the company under new or existing contracts.
There can If HM Treasury makes the decision to take the company into temporary be no assurance that the taking of any such actions would not public ownership, it may take various actions in relation to the adversely affect the ability of the company to satisfy its obligations companys securities without the consent of holders of the securities, under the issued securities or related contracts.
including among other things : RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 55
