GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 55 Business review Risk factors transferring the securities free from any contractual or legislative Set out below are certain risk factors which could affect the Groups restrictions on transfer: future results and cause them to be materially different from expected results.
The Groups results are also affected by competition and other transferring the securities free from any trust, liability or factors.
The factors discussed in this report should not be regarded encumbrance: as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
extinguishing any rights to acquire securities: Risks relating to the company delisting the securities: The company and its UK bank subsidiaries may face the risk of full nationalisation or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act.
converting the securities into another form or class including, for Under the provisions of the Banking Act, substantial powers have been example, into equity securities : or granted to the Authorities as part of the Special Resolution Regime to stabilise banks that are in financial difficulties the SRR.
The SRR disapplying any termination or acceleration rights or events of default confers powers on the Bank of England: i to transfer to the private under the terms of the securities which would be triggered by the sector all or part of the business of a UK incorporated institution with transfer.
permission to accept deposits pursuant to Part IV of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA a relevant entity : ii to Where HM Treasury has made a share transfer order in respect of transfer all or part of the business of the relevant entity to a bridge securities issued by the holding company of a relevant entity, bank established by the Bank of England: and also confers a power on HM Treasury may make an order providing for the property, rights or HM Treasury to transfer into temporary public ownership liabilities of the holding company or of any relevant entity in the holding nationalisation the relevant entity or its UK-incorporated holding company group to be transferred and where such property is held on company.
The Banking Act also provides for two new insolvency and trust, removing or altering the terms of such trust.
administration procedures for relevant entities.
Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the taking of any such The purpose of the stabilisation options is to address the situation actions would not adversely affect the rights of holders of securities where all or part of the business of a relevant entity has encountered, or and or adversely affect the price or value of their investment or that the is likely to encounter, financial difficulties.
Accordingly, the stabilisation ability of the company to satisfy its obligations under contracts related options may only be exercised if the FSA is satisfied that i a relevant to securities would be unaffected.
In such circumstances, such holders entity such as the companys UK banking subsidiaries, including the may have a claim for compensation under one of the compensation Royal Bank and NatWest, is failing, or is likely to fail, to satisfy the schemes currently existing under, or contemplated by, the Banking Act threshold conditions set out in Schedule 6 to the FSMA, and ii having if any action is taken in respect of securities for the purposes of regard to timing and other relevant circumstances, it is not reasonably determining an amount of compensation, an independent valuer must likely that ignoring the stabilisation options action will be taken that will disregard actual or potential financial assistance provided by the Bank enable the relevant entity to satisfy those threshold conditions.
The of England or HM Treasury.
There can be no assurance that holders of threshold conditions are conditions which an FSA authorised institution securities would thereby recover compensation promptly and or equal to must satisfy in order to retain its FSA authorisation.
They are relatively any loss actually incurred.
wide-ranging and deal with most aspects of a relevant entitys business, including, but not limited to, minimum capital resource requirements.
It is If the company was taken into temporary public ownership and a partial therefore possible that the FSA may trigger one of the stabilisation transfer of its or any relevant entitys business was effected, or if a options before an application for an insolvency or administration order relevant entity were made subject to the SRR and a partial transfer of its could be made.
business to another entity was effected, the transfer may directly affect the company and or its Group companies by creating, modifying or The stabilisation options may be exercised by means of powers to cancelling their contractual arrangements with a view to ensuring the transfer property, rights or liabilities of a relevant entity and shares and provision of such services and facilities as are required to enable the other securities issued by a relevant entity.
HM Treasury may also take bridge bank or private sector purchaser to operate the transferred the parent company of a relevant entity such as the company into business or any part of it effectively.
For example, the transfer may temporary public ownership provided that certain conditions set out in among other things i require the company or Group companies to Section 82 of the Banking Act are met.
Temporary public ownership is support and cooperate with the bridge bank or private sector purchaser, effected by way of a share transfer order and can be actioned ii cancel or modify contracts or arrangements between the company or irrespective of the financial condition of the parent company.
the transferred business and a Group company, or iii impose additional obligations on the company under new or existing contracts.
There can If HM Treasury makes the decision to take the company into temporary be no assurance that the taking of any such actions would not public ownership, it may take various actions in relation to the adversely affect the ability of the company to satisfy its obligations companys securities without the consent of holders of the securities, under the issued securities or related contracts.
including among other things : RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 55 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 56 Business review continued If the company was taken into temporary public ownership and a partial worlds largest corporate institutions operating across a wide range of transfer of its or any relevant entitys business was effected, or if a industry sectors, many of whom are the Groups customers and relevant entity were made subject to the SRR and a partial transfer of its counterparties in the ordinary course of its business.
In response to this business to another entity was effected, the nature and mix of the economic instability and illiquidity in the market, a number of assets and liabilities not transferred may adversely affect the companys governments, including the UK Government, the governments of the financial condition and increase the risk that the company may other EU member states and the US Government, have intervened in eventually become subject to administration or insolvency proceedings order to inject liquidity and capital into the financial system, and, in pursuant to the Banking Act.
some cases, to prevent the failure of these institutions.
While the main provisions of the Banking Special Provisions Act 2008 Despite such measures, the volatility and disruption of the capital and were in force, which conferred certain transfer powers on HM Treasury, credit markets have continued, and global economic conditions are the UK Government took action under that Act in respect of a number expected to remain challenging in the near to medium term, with many of UK financial institutions, including, in extreme circumstances, full and forecasts predicting only modest levels of GDP growth over the course part nationalisation.
There have been concerns in the market in the past of 2010.
Similar conditions are likely to exist in a number of the Groups year regarding the risks of such nationalisation in relation to the key markets, including those in the United States and Europe, company and other UK banks.
If economic conditions in the United particularly Ireland.
These conditions have exerted, and may continue to Kingdom or globally were to deteriorate, or the events described in the exert, downward pressure on asset prices and on availability and cost following risk factors occur to such an extent that they have a materially of credit for financial institutions, including the company, and will adverse impact on the financial condition, perceived or actual credit continue to impact the credit quality of the Groups customers and quality, results of operations or business of any of the relevant entities in counterparties.
Such conditions, alone or in combination with regulatory the Group, the UK Government may decide to take similar action in changes or actions of other market participants, may cause the Group relation to the company under the Banking Act.
Given the extent of the to incur losses or to experience further reductions in business activity, Bank of England and HM Treasurys powers under the Banking Act, it is increased funding costs and funding pressures, lower share prices, difficult to predict what effect such actions might have on the Group and decreased asset values, additional write-downs and impairment any securities issued by the company or Group companies.
However, charges and lower profitability.
potential impacts may include full nationalisation of the company and the total loss of value in securities issued by the company and the In addition, the Group will continue to be exposed to the risk of loss if inability of the company to perform its obligations under the securities.
major corporate borrowers or counterparty financial institutions fail or are otherwise unable to meet their obligations.
The Group currently If the stabilisation options were to be effected in respect of the experiences certain business sector and country concentration risk, companies HM Treasury is required to make certain compensation primarily focused in the United Kingdom and the rest of Europe and orders.
The order HM Treasury is required to make will depend on the relating to personal and banking and financial institution exposures.
For example in the event the Bank of Groups performance may also be affected by future recovery rates on England were to transfer some of the business of a relevant entity to a assets and the historical assumptions underlying asset recovery rates, bridge bank, the Treasury would have to make a resolution fund order which as has already occurred in certain instances may no longer be and a third party compensation order including pursuant to the Banking accurate given the unprecedented market disruption and general Act Third Party Compensation Arrangements for Partial Property economic instability.
The precise nature of all the risks and uncertainties Transfers Regulations 2009.
However, there can be no assurance that the Group faces as a result of current economic conditions cannot be compensation would be assessed to be payable or that holders of the predicted and many of these risks are outside the control of the Group.
securities would recover any compensation promptly and or equal to any loss actually incurred.
The Group was required to obtain State aid approval, for the aid given to the Group by HM Treasury and for the Groups State aid restructuring The Groups businesses, earnings and financial condition have been and plan, from the European Commission the Commission.
The Group is will continue to be affected by the global economy and instability in the subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the State aid global financial markets.
The State aid restructuring plan includes a prohibition The performance of the Group has been and will continue to be on the making of discretionary dividend or coupon payments on existing influenced by the economic conditions of the countries in which it hybrid capital instruments including preference shares and B shares for operates, particularly the United Kingdom, the United States and other a two-year period commencing no later than 30 April 2010, which may countries throughout Europe and Asia.
The outlook for the global impair the Groups ability to raise new Tier 1 capital through the issuance economy over the near to medium term remains challenging, particularly of ordinary shares and other securities.
in the United Kingdom, the United States and other European The Group was required to obtain State aid approval for the aid given to economies.
In addition, the global financial system has yet fully to the Group by HM Treasury as part of the First Placing and Open Offer, overcome the difficulties which first manifested themselves in August the issuance of 25.5 billion of B shares to HM Treasury, a commitment 2007 and financial markets conditions have not yet fully normalised.
by HM Treasury to acquire up to an additional 8 billion of B shares if These conditions led to severe dislocation of financial markets around certain conditions are met and the Groups participation in the Asset the world and unprecedented levels of illiquidity in 2008 and 2009, Protection Scheme APS the State aid.
resulting in the development of significant problems at a number of the 56 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 57 Business review As a result of the First Placing and Open Offer approved as part of the In implementing the State aid restructuring plan, the Group will lose Commissions approval of a package of measures to the banking existing customers, deposits and other assets both directly through the industry in the UK in October 2008, the Group was required to sale and potentially through the impact on the rest of the Groups cooperate with HM Treasury to submit a forward plan to the business arising from implementing the State aid restructuring plan and Commission.
This plan was submitted and detailed discussions took the potential for realising additional associated revenues and margins place between HM Treasury, the Group and the Commission.
The plan that it otherwise might have achieved in the absence of such disposals.
submitted not only had regard to the First Placing and Open Offer, but Further, the loss of such revenues and related income may extend the also the B share issue including the Contingent Subscription and the time period over which the Group may pay any amounts owed to Groups participation in the UK Governments Asset Protection Scheme HM Treasury under the APS or otherwise.
The implementation of the APS.
As part of its review, the Commission was required to assess the State aid restructuring plan may also result in disruption to the retained State aid and to consider whether the Groups long-term viability will be business and give rise to significant strain on management, employee, assured, that the Group makes a sufficient contribution to the costs of operational and financial resources, impacting customers and giving its restructuring and that measures are taken to limit any distortions of rise to separation costs which could be substantial.
competition arising from the State aid provided to the Group by the UK Government.
The Group, together with HM Treasury, agreed in principle The implementation of the State aid restructuring plan may result in the with the Commission the terms of the State aid and the terms of a emergence of one or more new viable competitors or a material restructuring plan the State aid restructuring plan.
Formal EC strengthening of one or more of the Groups competitors in the Groups approval was granted on 14 December 2009.
The prohibition on the markets.
The effect of this on the Groups future competitive position, making of discretionary dividend including preference shares and B revenues and margins is uncertain and there could be an adverse effect shares or coupon payments on existing hybrid capital instruments for a on the Groups operations and financial condition and its business two-year period commencing no later than 30 April 2010 will prevent the generally.
If any or all of the risks described above, or any other company from paying dividends on its ordinary shares and preference currently unforeseen risks, materialise, there could be a materially shares and coupons on other Tier 1 capital securities for the same negative impact on the Groups business, operations, financial condition, duration, and it may impair the Groups ability to raise new Tier 1 Capital capital position and competitive position.
through the issuance of ordinary shares and other securities.
Lack of liquidity is a risk to the Groups business and its ability to access It is possible a third party could challenge the approval decision in the sources of liquidity has been, and will continue to be, constrained.
European Courts within specified time limits.
The Group does not Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its obligations, believe that any such challenge would be likely to succeed but, if it including funding commitments, as they fall due.
This risk is inherent in were to succeed, the Commission would need to reconsider its banking operations and can be heightened by a number of enterprise decision, which may result in an adverse outcome for the Group, specific factors, including an over-reliance on a particular source of including a prohibition or amendment to some or all of the terms of the funding including, for example, short-term and overnight funding, State aid.
The Commission could also impose conditions that are more changes in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as market disadvantageous, potentially materially so, to the Group than those in dislocation and major disasters.
Since the second half of 2008, credit the State aid restructuring plan.
markets worldwide have experienced a severe reduction in liquidity and term-funding.
During this time, perception of counterparty risk between The Group is subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the banks also increased significantly.
This increase in perceived counterparty State aid restructuring plan.
There is no assurance that the price that the risk also led to reductions in inter-bank lending, and hence, in common Group receives for any assets sold pursuant to the State aid with many other banking groups, the Groups access to traditional sources restructuring plan will be at a level the Group considers adequate or of liquidity has been, and may continue to be, restricted.
which it could obtain in circumstances in which the Group was not required to sell such assets in order to implement the State aid The Groups liquidity management focuses on maintaining a diverse and restructuring plan or if such sale were not subject to the restrictions appropriate funding strategy for its assets, controlling the mismatch of including in relation to potential purchasers of the UK branch maturities and carefully monitoring its undrawn commitments and divestment contained in the terms thereof.
Further, should the Group fail contingent liabilities.
However, the Groups ability to access sources of to complete any of the required disposals within the agreed timeframes liquidity for example, through the issue or sale of financial and other for such disposals, under the terms of the State aid clearance a instruments or through the use of term loans during the recent period divestiture trustee can be empowered to conduct the disposals, with the of liquidity stress has been constrained to the point where it, like other mandate to complete the disposal at no minimum price.
banks, has had to rely on shorter term and overnight funding with a consequent reduction in overall liquidity, and to increase its recourse to Furthermore, if the Group is unable to comply with the terms of the liquidity schemes provided by central banks.
While during the course of State aid approval it could constitute a misuse of aid.
In circumstances 2009 money market conditions improved, with the Group seeing a where the Commission doubts that the Group is complying with the material reduction of funding from central banks and the issuance of terms of the State aid approval, it may open a formal investigation.
At non-government guaranteed term debt, further tightening of credit the conclusion of this investigation, if the Commission decides that there markets could have a negative impact on the Group.
has been misuse of aid, it can issue a decision requiring HM Treasury to recover the misused aid which could have a material adverse impact on the Group.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 57 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 58 Business review continued In addition, there is also a risk that corporate and institutional To the extent government support schemes are cancelled, changed or counterparties with credit exposures may look to reduce all credit withdrawn in a manner which diminishes their effectiveness, or to the exposures to banks, given current risk aversion trends.
It is possible that extent such schemes fail to generate additional liquidity or other support credit market dislocation becomes so severe that overnight funding from in the relevant markets in which such schemes operate, the Group, in non-government sources ceases to be available.
common with other banking groups, may continue to face limited access to, have insufficient access to, or incur higher costs associated Like many banking groups, the Group relies on customer deposits to with, funding alternatives, which could have a material adverse impact meet a considerable portion of its funding.
Furthermore, as part of its on the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations and ongoing strategy to improve its liquidity position, the Group is actively prospects or result in a loss of value in its securities.
seeking to increase the proportion of its funding represented by customer deposits.
However, such deposits are subject to fluctuation The financial performance of the Group has been and will be affected by due to certain factors outside the Groups control, such as a loss of borrower credit quality.
confidence, increasing competitive pressures or the encouraged or Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability of mandated repatriation of deposits by foreign wholesale or central bank loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide depositors, which could result in a significant outflow of deposits within range of the Groups businesses.
Whilst some economies stabilised a short period of time.
There is currently heavy competition among UK over the course of 2009, the Group may continue to see adverse banks for retail customer deposits, which has increased the cost of changes in the credit quality of its borrowers and counterparties, for procuring new deposits and impacted the Groups ability to grow its example, as a result of their inability to refinance their indebtedness, deposit base.
An inability to grow, or any material decrease in, the with increasing delinquencies, defaults and insolvencies across a range Groups deposits could, particularly if accompanied by one of the other of sectors such as the personal and banking and financial institution factors described above, have a negative impact on the Groups ability sectors and in a number of geographies such as the United Kingdom, to satisfy its liquidity needs unless corresponding actions were taken to the United States, the Middle East and the rest of Europe, particularly improve the liquidity profile of other deposits or to reduce assets.
This trend has led and may lead to further and accelerated particular, the liquidity position of the Group may be negatively impairment charges, higher costs, additional write-downs and losses for impacted if it is unable to achieve the run-off and sale of non-core and the Group or result in a loss of value in its securities.
Any significant delay in those plans may require the Group to consider disposal of other assets not previously The actual or perceived failure or worsening credit of the Groups identified for disposal to achieve its funded balance sheet target level.
counterparties has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect the Group.
The governments of some of the countries in which the Group operates The Groups ability to engage in routine funding transactions has been have taken steps to guarantee the liabilities of the banks and branches and will continue to be adversely affected by the actual or perceived operating in their respective jurisdiction.
Whilst in some instances the failure or worsening credit of its counterparties, including other financial operations of the Group are covered by government guarantees institutions and corporate borrowers.
The Group has exposure to many alongside other local banks, in other countries this may not necessarily different industries and counterparties and routinely executes always be the case.
This may place the Groups subsidiaries operating transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including in those countries, such as Ulster Bank Ireland Ltd, which did not brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and participate in such government guarantee schemes, at a competitive hedge funds and other institutional clients.
As a result, defaults by, or disadvantage to the other local banks and therefore may require the even the perceived creditworthiness of or concerns about, one or more Group to provide additional funding and liquidity support to these corporate borrowers, financial services institutions or the financial operations.
services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems, losses and defaults and could lead to further losses or defaults by the There can be no assurance that these measures, alongside other Group or by other institutions.
Many of these transactions expose the available measures, will succeed in improving the funding and liquidity Group to credit risk in the event of default of the Groups counterparty in the markets in which the Group operates, or that these measures, or client and the Group does have significant exposures to certain combined with any increased cost of any funding currently available in individual counterparties including counterparties in certain weakened the market, will not lead to a further increase in the Groups overall cost sectors and markets.
In addition, the Groups credit risk is exacerbated of funding, which could have an adverse impact on the Groups when the collateral it holds cannot be realised or is liquidated at prices financial condition and results of operations or result in a loss of value not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative in its securities.
exposure that is due to the Group, which is most likely to occur during periods of illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such as those Governmental support schemes may be subject to cancellation, change recently experienced.
Any such losses could have a material adverse or withdrawal or may fail to be renewed, which may have a negative effect on the Groups results of operations and financial condition or impact on the availability of funding in the markets in which the Group result in a loss of value in its securities.
Governmental support schemes may be subject to cancellation, change or withdrawal on a general or individual basis, subject to relevant contracts or may fail to be renewed, based on changing economic and political conditions in the jurisdiction of the relevant scheme.
Furthermore, certain schemes which have been announced, may not yet have been fully implemented, or their terms have not yet been finalised.
58 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 59 Business review The Groups earnings and financial condition have been, and its future Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, bond, earnings and financial condition may continue to be, affected by equity and commodity prices and other market factors have significantly depressed asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions.
affected and will continue to affect the Groups business.
Financial markets continue to be subject to significant stress conditions, Some of the most significant market risks the Group faces are interest where steep falls in perceived or actual asset values have been rate, foreign exchange, credit spread, bond, equity and commodity accompanied by a severe reduction in market liquidity, as exemplified price risks.
Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads by recent events affecting asset-backed collateralised debt obligations, may affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and residential mortgage-backed securities and the leveraged loan market.
borrowing costs, the effect of which may be heightened during periods In dislocated markets, hedging and other risk management strategies of liquidity stress, such as those experienced in the past 18 months.
have proven not to be as effective as they are in normal market Changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterling-US dollar and conditions due in part to the decreasing credit quality of hedge sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets, liabilities, counterparties, including monoline and other insurance companies and income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies and the credit derivative product companies.
Severe market events have resulted reported earnings of the companys non-UK subsidiaries principally in the Group recording large write-downs on its credit market exposures Citizens and RBS Securities Inc. and may affect income from foreign in 2007, 2008 and 2009.
Any further deterioration in economic and exchange dealing.
The performance of financial markets may affect financial market conditions could lead to further impairment charges bond, equity and commodity prices and, therefore, cause changes in and write-downs.
Moreover, market volatility and illiquidity make it the value of the Groups investment and trading portfolios.
This has difficult to value certain of the Groups exposures.
Valuations in future been the case during the period since August 2007, with market periods, reflecting, among other things, then-prevailing market disruptions and volatility resulting in significant reductions in the value of conditions and changes in the credit ratings of certain of the Groups such portfolios.
While the Group has implemented risk management assets, may result in significant changes in the fair values of the Groups methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which it exposures, even in respect of exposures, such as credit market is exposed, it is difficult, particularly in the current environment, to exposures, for which the Group has previously recorded write-downs.
In predict with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and to addition, the value ultimately realised by the Group may be materially anticipate the effects that such changes could have on the Groups different from the current or estimated fair value.
Any of these factors financial performance and business operations.
could require the Group to recognise further significant write-downs or realise increased impairment charges, any of which may adversely The Groups borrowing costs and its access to the debt capital markets affect its capital position, its financial condition and its results of depend significantly on its and the UK Governments credit ratings.
operations or result in a loss of value in its securities.
The company and other Group members have been subject to a number of downgrades in the recent past.
Any future reductions in the Further information about the write-downs which the Group has incurred long-term or short-term credit ratings of the company or one of its and the assets it has reclassified can be found in the Risk, capital and principal subsidiaries particularly the Royal Bank would further liquidity management section of the Business review.
increase its borrowing costs, require the Group to replace funding lost due to the downgrade, which may include the loss of customer The value or effectiveness of any credit protection that the Group has deposits, and may also limit the Groups access to capital and money purchased from monoline and other insurers and other market markets and trigger additional collateral requirements in derivatives counterparties including credit derivative product companies depends contracts and other secured funding arrangements.
Furthermore, given on the value of the underlying assets and the financial condition of the the extent of UK Government ownership and support provided to the insurers and such counterparties.
Group through the Credit Guarantee Scheme, any downgrade in the UK The Group has credit exposure arising from over-the-counter derivative Governments credit ratings could adversely affect the Groups own contracts, mainly credit default swaps CDSs, which are carried at fair credit ratings and may have the effects noted above.
The fair value of these CDSs, as well as the Groups exposure to agencies have reaffirmed the UK Governments AAA rating, although the risk of default by the underlying counterparties, depends on the S&P changed its outlook to negative on 21 May 2009.
Fitch reaffirmed valuation and the perceived credit risk of the instrument against which the UK Governments stable outlook on 31 July 2009 and Moodys protection has been bought.
Since 2007, monoline and other insurers reiterated the UK Governments stable outlook on 26 October 2009. and other market counterparties including credit derivative product Credit ratings of the company, the Royal Bank, ABN AMRO, Ulster Bank companies have been adversely affected by their exposure to and Citizens are also important to the Group when competing in certain residential mortgage linked and corporate credit products, whether markets, such as over-the-counter derivatives.
As a result, any further synthetic or otherwise, and their actual and perceived creditworthiness reductions in the companys long-term or short-term credit ratings or has deteriorated rapidly, which may continue.
If the financial condition those of its principal subsidiaries could adversely affect the Groups of these counterparties or their actual or perceived creditworthiness access to liquidity and competitive position, increase its funding costs deteriorates further, the Group may record further credit valuation and have a negative impact on the Groups earnings and financial adjustments on the credit protection bought from these counterparties condition or result in a loss of value in its securities.
under the CDSs in addition to those already recorded and such adjustments may have a material adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 59 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 60 Business review continued The Groups business performance could be adversely affected if its Groups Core Tier 1 capital ratio decline to below 5 per cent.
at any time capital is not managed effectively or if there are changes to capital before 31 December 2014, or should the Group fall short of its funded adequacy and liquidity requirements.
balance sheet target level after adjustments for 31 December 2013 by Effective management of the Groups capital is critical to its ability to 30 billion or more, the Group will be required to reduce its risk-weighted operate its businesses, to grow organically and to pursue its strategy of assets by a further 60 billion in excess of its plan through further returning to standalone strength.
The Group is required by regulators in disposals of identifiable businesses and their associated assets.
The the United Kingdom, the United States and in other jurisdictions in Group would also be subject to restrictions on payments on its hybrid which it undertakes regulated activities, to maintain adequate capital capital instruments should its Core Tier 1 ratio fall below 6 per cent.
The maintenance of adequate capital is also necessary for were it to fall below 6 per cent.
as a result of such payment.
As at the Groups financial flexibility in the face of continuing turbulence and 31 December 2009, the Groups Tier 1 capital and Core Tier 1 capital uncertainty in the global economy.
Accordingly, the purpose of the ratios were 14.1 per cent.
respectively, calculated in issuance of the 25.5 billion of B shares, the Contingent Subscription accordance with FSA definitions.
Any change that limits the Groups and the previous placing and open offers was to allow the company to ability to manage effectively its balance sheet and capital resources strengthen its capital position.
The FSAs recent liquidity policy going forward including, for example, reductions in profits and retained statement articulates that firms must hold sufficient eligible securities to earnings as a result of write-downs or otherwise, increases in risksurvive a liquidity stress and this will result in banks holding a greater weighted assets, delays in the disposal of certain assets or the inability amount of government securities, to ensure that these institutions have to syndicate loans as a result of market conditions, a growth in unfunded adequate liquidity in times of financial stress.
pension exposures or otherwise or to access funding sources, could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and regulatory In addition, on 17 December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking capital position or result in a loss of value in its securities.
Supervision the Basel Committee proposed a number of fundamental reforms to the regulatory capital framework in its The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is consultative document entitled Strengthening the resilience of the determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, banking sector.
If the proposals made by the Basel Committee are judgements and estimates that may change over time or may ultimately implemented, this could result in the Group being subject to significantly not turn out to be accurate.
The proposals include: a the build-up of a Under IFRS, the Group recognises at fair value i financial instruments counter-cyclical capital buffer in excess of the regulatory minimum classified as held-for-trading or designated as at fair value through capital requirement, which is large enough to enable the Group to profit or loss, ii financial assets classified as available-for-sale, and remain above the minimum capital requirement in the face of losses iii derivatives, each as further described in Accounting Policies on expected to be incurred in a feasibly severe downturn: b an increase page 252 of the financial statements.
Generally, to establish the fair in the capital requirements for counterparty risk exposures arising from value of these instruments, the Group relies on quoted market prices or, derivatives, repo-style transactions and securities financing transactions: where the market for a financial instrument is not sufficiently active, c the imposition of a leverage ratio as a supplementary measure to the internal valuation models that utilise observable market data.
In certain existing Basel II risk-based measure: d the phasing out of hybrid circumstances, the data for individual financial instruments or classes of capital instruments as Tier 1 capital and the requirement that the financial instruments utilised by such valuation models may not be predominant form of Tier 1 capital must be common shares and available or may become unavailable due to changes in market retained earnings: and e the imposition of global minimum liquidity conditions, as has been the case during the recent financial crisis.
In standards that include a requirement to hold a stock of unencumbered such circumstances, the Groups internal valuation models require the high quality liquid assets sufficient to cover cumulative net cash outflows Group to make assumptions, judgements and estimates to establish fair over a 30 day period under a prescribed stress scenario.
In common with other financial institutions, these internal valuation reforms are subject to a consultative process and an impact models are complex, and the assumptions, judgements and estimates assessment and are not likely to be implemented before the end of the Group is required to make often relate to matters that are inherently 2012.
The Basel Committee will also consider appropriate transition and uncertain, such as expected cash flows, the ability of borrowers to grandfathering arrangements.
These and other future changes to capital service debt, residential and commercial property price appreciation adequacy and liquidity requirements in the jurisdictions in which it and depreciation, and relative levels of defaults and deficiencies.
Such operates may require the Group to raise additional Tier 1 capital and assumptions, judgements and estimates may need to be updated to Core Tier 1 capital by way of further issuances of securities, including reflect changing facts, trends and market conditions.
The resulting in the form of ordinary shares or B shares.
The requirement to raise change in the fair values of the financial instruments has had and could additional Core Tier 1 capital could have a number of negative continue to have a material adverse effect on the Groups earnings and consequences for the company and its shareholders, including financial condition.
Also, recent market volatility and illiquidity have impairing the companys ability to pay dividends on or make other challenged the factual bases of certain underlying assumptions and distributions in respect of the ordinary shares and diluting the have made it difficult to value certain of the Groups financial ownership of existing shareholders.
If the Group is unable to raise the instruments.
Valuations in future periods, reflecting prevailing market requisite capital, it may be required to further reduce the amount of its conditions, may result in further significant changes in the fair values of risk-weighted assets and engage in the disposition of core and other these instruments, which could have a negative effect on the Groups non-core businesses, which may not occur on a timely basis or achieve results of operations and financial condition or result in a loss of value prices which would otherwise be attractive to the Group.
In addition, in its securities.
pursuant to the agreement reached with the Commission, should the 60 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 61 Business review The Groups ability to implement its strategic plan depends on the success arrangements for potentially lengthy periods following completion of the of the Groups refocus on its core strengths and the balance sheet relevant transaction to the businesses being transferred and reduction programme arising out of its previously announced non-core redundancy and other transaction costs.
Further, the Group may be restructuring plan and the State aid restructuring plan.
required to enter into covenants agreeing not to compete in certain In light of the changed global economic outlook, the Group has markets for specific periods of time.
In addition, as a result of the embarked on a financial and core business restructuring which is focused disposals, the Group will lose existing customers, deposits and other on achieving appropriate risk-adjusted returns under these changed assets both directly through the sale and potentially through the impact circumstances, reducing reliance on wholesale funding and lowering on the rest of the Groups business arising from implementing the exposure to capital intensive businesses.
A key part of this restructuring is restructuring plans and the potential for realising additional associated the programme to run down and sell the Groups non-core assets revenues and margins that it otherwise might have achieved in the announced in February 2009, which targets a gross reduction in funded absence of such disposals.
assets of 251 billion, and the continued review of the Groups portfolio to identify further disposals of certain non-core assets.
This balance sheet Any of the above factors, either in the context of State aid-related or reduction programme will continue alongside the disposals under the non-core or other asset disposals, could affect the Groups ability to State aid restructuring plan approved by the Commission.
implement its strategic plan and have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, financial condition, capital ratios Because the ability to dispose of assets and the price achieved for such and liquidity and could result in a loss of value in its securities.
disposals will be dependent on prevailing economic and market conditions, which may remain challenging, there is no assurance that The extensive organisational restructuring may adversely affect the the Group will be able to sell or run down as applicable those Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
businesses it is seeking to exit either on favourable economic terms to As part of its refocus on core strengths and its disposal programme, the the Group or at all.
Furthermore, where transactions are entered into for company has undertaken and continues to undertake extensive the purpose of selling non-core assets and businesses, they may be organisational restructuring involving the allocation of assets identified subject to conditions precedent, including government and regulatory as non-core assets to a separate Non-Core division, and the run-down approvals and completion mechanics that in certain cases may entail and sale of those assets over a period of time.
In addition, to comply consent from customers.
There is no assurance that such conditions with State aid clearance, the company has agreed to undertake a series precedent will be satisfied, or consents and approvals obtained, in a of measures to be implemented over a four-year period, which include timely manner or at all.
There is consequently a risk that the Group may disposing of RBS Insurance subject to potentially maintaining a fail to complete such disposals by any agreed longstop date.
minority interest until the end of 2014.
The company will also divest by the end of 2013 Global Merchant Services, subject to the company Furthermore, in the context of implementing the State aid restructuring retaining up to 20 per cent.
of each business within Global Merchant plan, the Group is subject to certain timing and other restrictions which Services if required by the purchaser, and its interest in RBS Sempra may result in the sale of assets at prices below those which the Group Commodities, as well as divesting the Royal Bank branch-based would have otherwise agreed had the Group not been required to sell business in England and Wales and the NatWest branches in Scotland, such assets as part of the State aid restructuring plan or if such sale along with the direct SME customers and certain mid-corporate were not subject to the restrictions contained in the terms of the State customers across the United Kingdom.
In order to implement these aid conditions.
restructurings, various businesses and divisions within the Group will be re-organised, transferred or sold, or potentially merged with other In addition, the Group may be liable for any deterioration in businesses businesses and divisions within the Group.
As part of this process, being sold between the announcement of the disposal and its personnel may be reallocated, where permissible, across the Group, completion.
In certain cases, the period between the announcement of new technology may be implemented, and new policies and procedures a transaction and its completion may be lengthy and may span many may be established in order to accommodate the new shape of the months.
Other risks that may arise out of the disposal of the Groups Group.
As a result, the Group may experience a high degree of assets include ongoing liabilities up to completion of the relevant business interruption, significant restructuring charges, delays in transaction in respect of the assets and businesses disposed of, implementation, and significant strain on management, employee, commercial and other risks associated with meeting covenants to the operational and financial resources.
Any of the above factors could buyer during the period up to completion, the risk of employee and affect the Groups ability to achieve its strategic objectives and have a customer attrition in the period up to completion, substantive indemnity material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and obligations in favour of the buyer, the risk of liability for breach of financial condition or could result in a loss of value in its securities.
warranty, the need to continue to provide transitional service RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 61 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 62 Business review continued The Group operates in markets that are highly competitive and commitment to lend at similar levels in the year commencing 1 March consolidating.
If the Group is unable to perform effectively, its business 2010, although this is subject to adjustment of the commitments by and results of operations will be adversely affected.
agreement with the UK Government to reflect circumstances at the start Recent consolidation among banking institutions in the United Kingdom, of the 2010 commitment period.
Notwithstanding the Groups the United States and throughout Europe is changing the competitive willingness to lend to creditworthy customers and its clarity that the landscape for banks and other financial institutions.
If financial markets requisite funds are available, thereby fulfilling its commitments, continue to be volatile, more banks may be forced to consolidate.
This indications remain that it is unlikely that the Groups net business consolidation, in combination with the introduction of new entrants into lending will increase by the 16 billion that it is making available, in the the US and UK markets from other European and Asian countries, could light of the subdued demand that the Group is currently experiencing.
increase competitive pressures on the Group.
In addition, certain Failure to comply with these lending commitments may result in the competitors may have access to lower cost funding and be able to offer withdrawal or restriction of the Groups eligibility to extend its retail deposits on more favourable terms than the Group and may have participation in the Credit Guarantee Scheme from three to five years, stronger multi-channel and more efficient operations as a result of which could have a material adverse impact on the Groups business, greater historical investments.
Furthermore, the Groups competitors financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
may be better able to attract and retain clients and talent, which may have a negative impact on the Groups relative performance and future The Group has also agreed to certain other commitments, which are prospects.
material for the structure of the Group and its operations, under the State aid restructuring plan approved by the Commission in relation to Furthermore, increased government ownership of, and involvement in, State aid.
banks generally may have an impact on the competitive landscape in the major markets in which the Group operates.
Although, at present, it In addition, the Group, together with HM Treasury, has agreed with the is difficult to predict what the effects of this increased government Commission a prohibition on the making of discretionary dividends ownership and involvement will be or how they will differ from including on preference shares and B shares or coupon payments on jurisdiction to jurisdiction, such involvement may cause the Group to existing hybrid capital instruments for a two-year period commencing no experience stronger competition for corporate, institutional and retail later than 30 April 2010.
It is possible that the Group may, in future, be clients and greater pressure on profit margins.
Future disposals and subject to further restrictions on payments on such hybrid capital restructurings by the Group and the compensation structure and instruments, whether as a result of undertakings given to regulatory restrictions imposed on the Group may also have an impact on its ability bodies, changes to capital requirements such as the proposals to compete effectively.
Since the markets in which the Group operates published by the Basel Committee on 17 December 2009 or otherwise.
are expected to remain highly competitive in all areas, these and other changes to the competitive landscape could adversely affect the The Group has also agreed to certain other undertakings in the Groups business, margins, profitability and financial condition or result Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement.
in a loss of value in its securities.
The Group could fail to attract or retain senior management, which may As a condition to HM Treasury support, the company has agreed to include members of the Board, or other key employees, and it may suffer certain undertakings which may serve to limit the Groups operations and if it does not maintain good employee relations.
it may be required to agree to further restrictions in the future.
The Groups ability to implement its strategy depends on the ability and Under the terms of the First Placing and Open Offer, the company experience of its senior management, which may include Directors, and provided certain undertakings aimed at ensuring that the subscription other key employees.
The loss of the services of certain key employees, by HM Treasury of the relevant company ordinary shares and particularly to competitors, could have a negative impact on the Groups preference shares and the Groups participation in the Credit Guarantee business.
The Groups future success will also depend on its ability to Scheme offered by HM Treasury as part of its support for the UK attract, retain and remunerate highly skilled and qualified personnel banking industry are compatible with the common market under EU law.
This cannot be guaranteed, particularly in These undertakings include i supporting certain initiatives in relation to light of heightened regulatory oversight of banks and heightened mortgage lending and lending to SMEs until 2011, ii regulating scrutiny of, and in some cases restrictions placed upon, management management remuneration and iii regulating the rate of growth of the compensation arrangements, in particular those in receipt of Groups balance sheet.
Under the terms of the Second Placing and government funding such as the company.
The Group has made a Open Offer, the Groups undertakings in relation to mortgage lending commitment to comply with the FSA Remuneration Code.
These rules and lending to SMEs were extended to larger commercial and industrial came into force on 1 January 2010 and are in line with the agreement companies in the United Kingdom.
These undertakings may serve to reached by the G-20, setting global standards for the implementation of limit the Groups operations.
In addition, pursuant to certain the Financial Stability Boards remuneration principles.
The Group arrangements entered into between the company and certain UK agreed that it will be at the leading edge of implementing the G-20 Government departments, the company is subject to further principles and has granted UK Financial Investments Ltd UKFI undertakings, which supersede the lending commitments made to consent rights over the shape and size of its aggregate bonus pool for HM Treasury in October 2008 and January 2009 by agreeing to lend to the 2009 performance year.
The level of the 2009 bonus pool and the creditworthy borrowers on commercial terms, 16 billion above the deferral and clawback provisions implemented by the Group may impair amount the company had budgeted to lend to UK businesses and the ability of the Group to attract and retain suitably qualified personnel 9 billion above the amount the company had budgeted to lend to UK in various parts of the Groups businesses.
homeowners in the year commencing 1 March 2009.
There is also a 62 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 63 Business review The Group is also altering certain of the pension benefits it offers to Other areas where governmental policies and regulatory changes could staff.
In addition to the effects of such measures on the Groups ability have an adverse impact include, but are not limited to: to retain senior management and other key employees, the marketplace for skilled personnel is becoming more competitive, which means the the monetary, interest rate, capital adequacy, liquidity, balance sheet cost of hiring, training and retaining skilled personnel may continue to leverage and other policies of central banks and regulatory increase.
The failure to attract or retain a sufficient number of authorities: appropriately skilled personnel could place the Group at a significant competitive disadvantage and prevent the Group from successfully general changes in government or regulatory policy or changes in implementing its strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on regulatory regimes that may significantly influence investor decisions the Groups financial condition and results of operations or result in a in particular markets in which the Group operates or may increase loss of value in its securities.
the costs of doing business in those markets: In addition, certain of the Groups employees in the United Kingdom, changes to financial reporting standards: continental Europe and other jurisdictions in which the Group operates are represented by employee representative bodies, including trade changes in regulatory requirements relating to capital, such as unions.
Engagement with its employees and such bodies is important to limitations on the use of deferred tax assets in calculating Core the Group and a breakdown of these relationships could adversely Tier 1 and or Tier 1 capital, or prudential rules relating to the capital affect the Groups business, reputation and results.
As the Group adequacy framework: implements cost-saving initiatives and disposes of, or runs-down, certain assets or businesses including as part of its expected other general changes in the regulatory requirements, such as the restructuring plans, it faces increased risk in this regard and there can imposition of onerous compliance obligations, restrictions on be no assurance that the Group will be able to maintain good relations business growth or pricing and requirements to operate in a way that with its employees or employee representative bodies in respect of all prioritises objectives other than shareholder value creation: matters.
As a result, the Group may experience strikes or other industrial action from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on changes in competition and pricing environments: its business and results of operations and could cause damage to its reputation.
further developments in financial reporting, corporate governance, conduct of business and employee compensation: Each of the Groups businesses is subject to substantial regulation and oversight.
Any significant regulatory developments could have an effect differentiation among financial institutions by governments with on how the Group conducts its business and on its results of operations respect to the extension of guarantees to bank customer deposits and financial condition.
and the terms attaching to such guarantees, including requirements The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, corporate for the entire Group to accept exposure to the risk of any individual governance requirements, administrative actions and policies in each member of the Group, or even third party participants in guarantee location in which it operates.
All of these are subject to change, schemes, failing: particularly in the current market environment, where there have been unprecedented levels of government intervention and changes to the implementation of, or costs related to, local customer or depositor regulations governing financial institutions, including recent compensation or reimbursement schemes: nationalisations in the United Kingdom, the United States and other European countries.
As a result of these and other ongoing and transferability and convertibility of currency risk: possible future changes in the financial services regulatory landscape including requirements imposed by virtue of the Groups participation expropriation, nationalisation and confiscation of assets: in the APS and any other government or regulator-led initiatives, the Group expects to face greater regulation in the United Kingdom, the changes in legislation relating to foreign ownership: and United States and other countries in which it operates, including throughout the rest of Europe.
Compliance with such regulations may other unfavourable political, military or diplomatic developments increase the Groups capital requirements and costs and have an producing social instability or legal uncertainty which, in turn, may adverse impact on how the Group conducts its business, on the affect demand for the Groups products and services.
products and services it offers, on the value of its assets and on its results of operations and financial condition or result in a loss of value The Groups results have been and could be further adversely affected in in its securities.
the event of goodwill impairment.
The Group capitalises goodwill, which is calculated as the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Acquired goodwill is recognised initially at cost and subsequently at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
As required by IFRS, the Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently, at external reporting RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 63 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 64 Business review continued dates, when events or circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
outcomes are often difficult to predict, particularly in the earlier stages An impairment test involves comparing the recoverable amount the of a case or investigation.
Adverse regulatory action or adverse higher of value in use and fair value less cost to sell of an individual judgments in litigation could result in restrictions or limitations on the cash generating unit with its carrying value.
The value in use and fair Groups operations or result in a material adverse effect on the Groups value of the Groups cash generating units are affected by market reputation or results of operations or result in a loss of value in the conditions and the performance of the economies in which the Group securities.
For details about certain litigation and regulatory operates.
Where the Group is required to recognise a goodwill investigations in which the Group is involved, see Note 32 on the impairment, it is recorded in the Groups income statement, although it Financial statements.
has no effect on the Groups regulatory capital position.
For the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group recorded a 363 million Operational risks are inherent in the Groups operations.
accounting write down of goodwill and other intangibles relating to prior The Groups operations are dependent on the ability to process a very year acquisitions see page 301. large number of transactions efficiently and accurately while complying with applicable laws and regulations where it does business.
The Group The Group may be required to make further contributions to its pension has complex and geographically diverse operations and operational risk schemes if the value of pension fund assets is not sufficient to cover and losses can result from internal and external fraud, errors by potential obligations.
employees or third parties, failure to document transactions properly or The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for to obtain proper authorisation, failure to comply with applicable past and a number of current employees.
Pensions risk is the risk that regulatory requirements and conduct of business rules including those the liabilities of the Groups various defined benefit pension schemes arising out of anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism legislation, as which are long term in nature will exceed the schemes assets, as a well as the provisions of applicable sanctions programmes, equipment result of which the Group is required or chooses to make additional failures, natural disasters or the inadequacy or failure of systems and contributions to the schemes.
The schemes assets comprise investment controls, including those of the Groups suppliers or counterparties.
portfolios that are held to meet projected liabilities to the scheme Although the Group has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation members.
Risk arises from the schemes because the value of these actions, and substantial resources are devoted to developing efficient asset portfolios and returns from them may be less than expected and procedures, to identify and rectify weaknesses in existing procedures because there may be greater than expected increases in the estimated and to train staff, it is not possible to be certain that such actions have value of the schemes liabilities.
In these circumstances, the Group been or will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks could be obliged, or may choose, to make additional contributions to the faced by the Group.
Any weakness in these systems or controls, or any schemes, and during recent periods, the Group has voluntarily made breaches or alleged breaches of applicable laws or regulations, could such contributions.
Given the current economic and financial market have a materially negative impact on the Groups business, reputation difficulties and the prospects that they may continue over the near and and results of operations and share price.
Notwithstanding anything medium term, the Group may experience increasing pension deficits or contained in this risk factor, it should not be taken as implying that the be required or elect to make further contributions to its pension company will be unable to comply with its obligations as a company schemes and such deficits and contributions could be significant and with securities admitted to the Official List of the UKLA or as a have a negative impact on the Groups capital position, results of supervised firm regulated by the FSA.
operations or financial condition or result in a loss of value in its securities.
The next funding valuation of the Groups major defined The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in tax legislation and its benefit pension plan, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund, interpretation and to increases in the rate of corporate and other taxes in will take place with an effective date of 31 March 2010. the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The Groups activities are subject to tax at various rates around the The Group is and may be subject to litigation and regulatory world computed in accordance with local legislation and practice.
investigations that may impact its business.
Action by governments to increase tax rates or to impose additional The Groups operations are diverse and complex, and it operates in taxes or to restrict the tax reliefs currently available to the Group would legal and regulatory environments that expose it to potentially significant reduce the Groups profitability.
Revisions to tax legislation or to its litigation, regulatory investigation and other regulatory risk.
As a result, interpretation might also affect the Groups results in the future.
the Group is, and may in the future be, involved in various disputes, legal proceedings and regulatory investigations in the United Kingdom, HM Treasury or UKFI on its behalf may be able to exercise a significant the EU, the United States and other jurisdictions, including class action degree of influence over the Group.
litigation and review by the European Commission under State aid rules.
UKFI manages HM Treasurys shareholder relationship with the Furthermore, the Group, like many other financial institutions, has come company.
Although HM Treasury has indicated that it intends to respect under greater regulatory scrutiny over the last year and expects that the commercial decisions of the Group and that the Group will continue environment to continue for the foreseeable future, particularly as it to have its own independent board of directors and management team relates to compliance with new and existing corporate governance, determining its own strategy, should its current intentions change, employee compensation, conduct of business, anti-money laundering HM Treasurys position as a majority shareholder and UKFIs position as and anti-terrorism laws and regulations, as well as the provisions of manager of this shareholding means that HM Treasury or UKFI may be applicable sanctions programmes.
Disputes, legal proceedings and able to exercise a significant degree of influence over, among other regulatory investigations are subject to many uncertainties, and their things, the election of directors and the appointment of senior 64 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 65 Business review management.
In addition, as the provider of the APS, HM Treasury has In addition, to the extent that other jurisdictions where the Group a range of rights that other shareholders do not have.
These include operates have introduced or plan to introduce similar compensation, rights under the terms of the APS over the Groups remuneration policy contributory or reimbursement schemes such as in the United States and practice, including the right through UKFI to consent to the shape with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Group may make and quantum of the banks aggregate variable bonus pool for the 2009 further provisions and may incur additional costs and liabilities, which performance year.
The manner in which HM Treasury or UKFI exercises may negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations or HM Treasurys rights as majority shareholder or in which HM Treasury result in a loss of value in its securities.
exercises its rights under the APS could give rise to conflict between the interests of HM Treasury and the interests of other shareholders.
The The Groups business and earnings may be affected by geopolitical Board has a duty to promote the success of the company for the benefit conditions.
The performance of the Group is significantly influenced by the geopolitical and economic conditions prevailing at any given time in the The Groups insurance businesses are subject to inherent risks involving countries in which it operates, particularly the United Kingdom, the claims.
United States and other countries in Europe and Asia.
For example, the Future claims in the Groups general and life assurance business may Group has a presence in countries where businesses could be exposed be higher than expected as a result of changing trends in claims to the risk of business interruption and economic slowdown following experience resulting from catastrophic weather conditions, demographic the outbreak of a pandemic, or the risk of sovereign default following developments, changes in the nature and seriousness of claims made, the assumption by governments of the obligations of private sector changes in mortality, changes in the legal and compensatory landscape institutions.
Similarly, the Group faces the heightened risk of trade and other causes outside the Groups control.
These trends could affect barriers, exchange controls and other measures taken by sovereign the profitability of current and future insurance products and services.
governments which may impact a borrowers ability to repay.
Terrorist The Group reinsures some of the risks it has assumed and is acts and threats and the response to them of governments in any of accordingly exposed to the risk of loss should its reinsurers become these countries could also adversely affect levels of economic activity unable or unwilling to pay claims made by the Group against them.
and have an adverse effect upon the Groups business.
The Groups operations have inherent reputational risk.
The restructuring proposals for ABN AMRO are complex and may not Reputational risk, meaning the risk to earnings and capital from negative realise the anticipated benefits for the Group.
public opinion, is inherent in the Groups business.
Negative public The restructuring plan in place for the integration and separation of opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which the ABN AMRO into and among the businesses and operations of the Group conducts its business activities, from the Groups financial Consortium Members is complex, involving substantial reorganisation of performance, from the level of direct and indirect government support ABN AMROs operations and legal structure.
The restructuring plan is or from actual or perceived practices in the banking and financial being implemented and significant elements have been completed industry.
Negative public opinion may adversely affect the Groups within the planned timescales and the integration of the Groups ability to keep and attract customers and, in particular, corporate and businesses continues.
The Group may not realise the benefits of the retail depositors.
The Group cannot ensure that it will be successful in acquisition or the restructuring when expected or to the extent avoiding damage to its business from reputational risk.
The occurrence of any of these events, including as a result of staff losses or performance issues, or as a result of further disposals In the United Kingdom and in other jurisdictions, the Group is responsible or restructurings by the Group, may have a negative impact on the for contributing to compensation schemes in respect of banks and other Groups financial condition and results of operations.
It is not expected authorised financial services firms that are unable to meet their that the Dutch States acquisition of Fortis Bank Nederlands shares in obligations to customers.
RFS Holdings, will materially affect the integration benefits envisaged by In the United Kingdom, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme the Group.
the Compensation Scheme was established under the FSMA and is the United Kingdoms statutory fund of last resort for customers of The recoverability and regulatory capital treatment of certain deferred authorised financial services firms.
The Compensation Scheme can pay tax assets recognised by the Group depends on the Groups ability to compensation to customers if a firm is unable, or likely to be unable, to generate sufficient future taxable profits and there being no adverse pay claims against it and may be required to make payments either in changes to tax legislation, regulatory requirements or accounting connection with the exercise of a stabilisation power or in exercise of standards.
the bank insolvency procedures under the Banking Act.
The In accordance with IFRS, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets Compensation Scheme is funded by levies on firms authorised by the on losses available to relieve future profits from tax only to the extent FSA, including the Group.
In the event that the Compensation Scheme that it is probable that they will be recovered.
The deferred tax assets raises funds from the authorised firms, raises those funds more are quantified on the basis of current tax legislation and accounting frequently or significantly increases the levies to be paid by such firms, standards and are subject to change in respect of the future rates of the associated costs to the Group may have a material impact on its tax or the rules for computing taxable profits and allowable losses.
results of operations and financial condition.
As at 31 December 2009, Failure to generate sufficient future taxable profits or changes in tax the Group has a provision of 135 million related to a levy by the legislation or accounting standards may reduce the recoverable amount Compensation Scheme for the 2009 10 and 2010 11 Compensation of the recognised deferred tax assets.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 65
