30 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RiSK MAnAgeMent oveRAll RiSK FRAMewoRK gRouP RiSK Policy StAteMentS 2009 uPdAte The Group operates under a risk management Group risk policy statements set out the framework that is designed to identify, assess, minimum standards to be maintained by the oRgAniSAtion measure and manage exposure to risk.
Groups operations to manage risks in a way We strengthened the independence of the This process is subject to continuous review that is consistent with the risk appetite.
Business Board Risk Committee by appointing two and development.
managers are responsible for complying with Non Executive Directors, Noel Harwerth Group and local risk policies and for managing Chair and Malcolm Le May.
We also made a RiSK MAnAgeMent risk by taking mitigating actions where number of appointments across the business The Board is responsible for the Groups systems appropriate.
The Board Risk Committees to strengthen the Financial, Emerging Markets of risk management.
Executive management is role includes consideration of risk mitigation.
responsible for establishing and implementing appropriate systems and controls.
The Group Compliance with policy statements is PRoceSSeS Risk Management Framework provides the mandatory.
Policies are subject to regular We undertook an extensive exercise to mechanism through which risk management review to reflect changes in circumstances review and document the Groups and control is embedded throughout the Group.
and the Group risk appetite.
Governance Structure and Control Each Group business is required to follow a Framework, which confirmed the existing consistent process to identify, assess, manage and RiSK cAtegoRieS strong level of governance and control.
Risk elements are viewed under headings that broadly correspond to those used in We undertook a comprehensive stress and gRouP RiSK APPetite the Financial Services Authoritys Prudential scenario testing exercise covering reverse The Group risk appetite is set and monitored at Sourcebook for Insurers INSPRU and Senior stress tests to better understand our risk both a Group and regional level and is annually Management Arrangements, Systems and profile and improve our control reviewed and signed off by the Board Risk Controls SySC.
It sets business provided in the Risk Management section on volumes for certain higher risk insurance classes, page 85.
Some of the key current practices and In addition to our strong focus on technical stipulates loss retention limits, reinsurance tools for each risk category are set out below.
and file reviews, we strengthened our focus protection, targets for credit rating and solvency on underwriting referrals to ensure that we margins and other measures.
There is a formal inSuRAnce RiSK write the right risks at the appropriate price.
escalation process for potential or emerging The Groups insurance activities are primarily risks that are outside the risk appetite.
concerned with the pricing, acceptance and RePoRting management of risks arising from our contracts The Board updated the Group risk RiSK FRAMewoRK with customers.
The management of appetite to cover key strategic The Group has a 3 lines of defence model for underwriting and claims risks uses a number relationships, and extend liquidity, the oversight and management of risk: of key tools, including the review of the cashflow and debtor management.
performance and management of individual 1st Management: responsible for setting strategy, insurance portfolios throughout the Group Our clearly defined and focused underwriting performance measurement and the using the portfolio classification process and risk appetite remains unchanged.
establishment and maintenance of internal the investigation of potential emerging control and risk management systems insurance risks.
PolicieS 2nd Risk assessment: we operate a formal risk We updated our liquidity management management framework within which the Claims development and reserving levels are policy and supporting procedures.
Group policies and minimum standards closely monitored.
Each regions Reserving are set.
Oversight and challenge are Committee determines a recommended We also reviewed our delegated authority provided by the Board Risk Committee, level of outstanding claims reserves in framework policy and strengthened our supported by the Group risk functions and accordance with the Group reserving policy.
a Group wide network of regional The Group Reserving Committee assesses the risk committees appropriateness of these recommendations and 3rd independent assurance: the Group Audit determines the level of aggregate outstanding Committee, supported by Group Internal claims reserves to be carried by the Group.
Audit and regional audit committees, provides independent and objective assurance of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
BuSineSS Review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 31 ReinSuRAnce RiSK collected on actual operational risk incidents Committee and operating within risk limits set The Groups reinsurance strategy and appetite and near misses captures past experiences.
by the Board Risk Committee.
are recommended to the Board by the The use of scenario analyses enables Board Risk Committee and published and assessment of whether operational events Group liquidity is managed by Group Treasury disseminated via the Group reinsurance policy that have occurred elsewhere could manifest and each operation is required to maintain a statement.
The reinsurance team monitors and themselves within the Group.
minimum level of cash or highly liquid assets.
controls the Groups reinsurance activity and Contingency funding plans are prepared and has responsibility for the purchase of the cRedit, MARKet And liquidity RiSKS monitored to ensure that these minimum levels worldwide programme of treaties.
All major The primary sources of credit risk are investment are met even in stress conditions.
treaty purchases are analysed using various and treasury activities and reinsurance sophisticated modelling tools to ensure that the counterparty risk.
A range of bank counterparty RegulAtoRy RiSK level of cover purchased is capital efficient and concentration and credit quality limits, together The Group operates in a number of aligned with the Group risk appetite and strategy.
with other controls, are in place to ensure geographical locations with diverse regulatory that exposure is managed within the Group requirements.
Internationally, the regulatory oPeRAtionAl RiSK risk appetite.
New reinsurance cover is placed environment has become more complex and Major sources of operational risk include, but are with reinsurers that are authorised as demanding.
The Group continues to respond not limited to, process reliability, information approved reinsurance counterparties to these developments through its arrangements security, fraud and human error.
The Group uses recommended by the Group Reinsurance for regulatory compliance and by ensuring that a suite of risk tools to help manage operational Credit Committee under criteria approved it maintains open and cooperative relationships risk including risk and control self assessments, by the Board Risk Committee.
key risk indicators, scenario analyses, incident management and loss reporting.
Market risk arises from the Groups investment portfolios.
The Group Asset Management A series of key risk indicators are used to assess Committee oversees the Groups investment and manage operational risk, whilst data strategy under the oversight of the Investment Governance structure BoARd gRouP gRouP Audit BoARd RiSK inveStMent coMMittee coMMittee coMMittee icA & cAPitAl Solvency ii gRouP gRouP ASSet RegionAl Audit AllocAtion SteeRing executive MAnAgeMent coMMitteeS SteeRing gRouP coMMittee coMMittee coMMittee gRouP RiSK, gRouP gRouP RegionAl RiSK inveStMentS ReSeRving tRAnSAction coMMitteeS & tReASuRy coMMittee coMMittee coMMittee gRouP gRouP ReinSuRAnce diScloSuRe cRedit coMMittee coMMittee 32 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RiSK MAnAgeMent continued PRinciPAl RiSKS And unceRtAintieS tyPe oF RiSK PotentiAl iMPAct SenSitivity And MitigAtion PRolonged Exposure reduction impacts Diverse portfolio provides exposure to markets at different stages premium levels, and of development and at different points in the insurance cycle econoMic Increased claims frequency.
Group has limited exposure to economically triggered contracts downtuRn KPI dashboard developed, enabling early corrective action, e. g. change in terms and conditions, rate and capacity withdrawal Maintain focus on underwriting discipline and targeted profitable growth, and Continue to take action on rate and expenses.
AdveRSe Impact on investment portfolio The Group maintains a high quality, low risk investment and investment income due to strategy, and FinAnciAl MARKet lower interest rates and Action taken to mitigate falling yields, including increased holding in investment market volatility.
non-government bonds, equities and property and extended duration.
RAting Inability to charge adequate Diverse portfolio, provides exposure to markets at different stages rates places downward of development and at different points in the insurance cycle enviRonMent pressure on operating results.
Continue to invest in technical skills, sales and marketing capabilities and target profitable growth Each underwriting portfolio has a rate plan, reviewed regularly to ensure achieved or corrective action taken Reviews of business won and lost to ensure underwriting discipline is maintained and risks accepted are priced to achieve target returns, and Actively shift capacity to where we see the best returns.
inSuRAnce Adverse impact on operating The Group operates under a clear risk appetite set by the Board results due to increased which is monitored at Group and regional level RiSKS outSide volatility.
Underwriters are licensed only to write risks within specified limits gRouPS RiSK based on their own experience, and APPetite Reviews assess each portfolio against key performance and risk indicators.
Portfolios that trigger key risk indicators are investigated.
Corrective measures are implemented where required.
AdveRSe loSS Catastrophic losses arising Underwriting strategy set centrally using risk aggregation models from insurance event s to ensure risks written are well diversified and within risk appetite exPeRience Increasing frequency and Portfolio reviews monitor underwriting performance severity of large losses, and Emerging trends in large losses, frequency and severity are Deterioration in long tail investigated and corrective action taken reserves.
Conservative reinsurance programmes limits net losses, and Conservative reserving policy ensures claims reserves are set with the aim that, over the longer term, they will be more likely than not to result in positive prior year development.
