38043 pp042-062 File0508 03 201018:24Page60 60 Risk management and internal control report In this section we set out the Groups risk Financial Officer.
Details on financial instrument risk management process and system of internal controls.
management are provided in note 27 to the financial statements.
Risk management The Board is accountable for risk and is responsible The Group Capital Committee monitors and controls for oversight of the risk management process.
The the use and liquidity of the Groups capital resources.
Board has considered the most significant risks facing Dedicated personnel are responsible for producing the Group, including quantitative exposure measures and maintaining market and liquidity risk reports such as stress tests where appropriate.
based upon the Capital Requirements Directive and The Group Management Committee reviews the key overseas regulatory requirements as applicable.
The corporate risks facing the Group.
The Chief Financial underlying methodologies and limits are reviewed and Officer has responsibility for the risk and control set centrally.
Local risk committees review exposures framework within the Group and the independent against limits on a regular basis.
monitoring and reporting of risk and controls.
The Chief Risk Officer, who reports directly to the Chief Credit risk Financial Officer, manages the ongoing development In respect of both principal and agency counterparty of the Groups risk and control framework.
Schroders risk, the Group sets the overall limits.
An independent embeds risk management within the business, with credit risk team, reporting directly to the Chief Risk independent oversight and challenge being provided Officer, is responsible for monitoring, managing and by the Group risk function.
reporting exposures against limits, subject to oversight by the Group Risk Committee.
Group Risk Committee Credit risk within Private Banking is also monitored The Group Risk Committee supports the Chief and managed against the performance of Financial Officer in discharging the responsibilities the collateral.
outlined above and is the principal management committee for the monitoring and reporting of risks Operational risk and controls.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Local management is responsible for operational risk Financial Officer and includes senior representatives controls.
Where appropriate, depending on the size from each of the businesses and the control functions, and complexity of the business unit, risk and control including the Chief Investment Officer and Chief maps have been prepared which are captured on Operating Officer.
The Committee reviews and an on-line worldwide risk management system.
The monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Risk Committee receives reports from line Groups risk management framework, including management regarding matters giving cause for relevant policies and limits.
It also reviews trends concern and ensures appropriate remedial action is and exceptions in the most significant risk exposures.
An independent team reporting directly to the Chief Risk Officer is responsible for assessing the Market and liquidity risk impact of material issues and errors, in order to The Private Banking subsidiaries hold certain financial ensure that appropriate risk mitigation is undertaken instruments including debt securities, forward foreign on a timely basis.
exchange contracts and interest rate swaps for customer facilitation purposes.
The management of investment risk is a core activity of the Group.
The Schroders Investment Risk The management of market and liquidity risks in Management Framework provides review and Private Banking is the responsibility of its management challenge of investment risks across each of the asset assisted by local risk committees.
classes managed by the Group.
A team reporting The Group has a number of overseas subsidiaries directly to the Chief Risk Officer provides further whose shareholders funds, revenues and expenses independent oversight and challenge to this process.
are denominated principally in local currencies.
The boards of each subsidiary manage these risks in the Compliance and control validation relevant, normally local, currency.
Forward foreign Group Compliance undertakes through Group exchange contracts with third parties are used partially Internal Audit detailed monitoring to review to mitigate exposure to currency movements from a compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
Group Internal Audit also carries out a programme of audits approved by the Audit Committee, including The Groups seed capital investments may be hedged reviews of the risk management process and in respect of market risk.
The decisions to hedge advice and recommendations on improving the market risk on seed capital investments are taken by control environment.
the Group Capital Committee, chaired by the Chief | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp042-062 File0506 03 201001:05Page61 61 Internal control The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing The Board is responsible for the Groups system of process for identifying, evaluating and managing internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This the Groups significant risks that: does not extend to the Groups joint ventures and Has been in place for the year ended 31 December associates.
Such a system can provide only 2009 and up to the date of approval of the Annual reasonable and not absolute assurance against Report and Accounts: material financial misstatement or loss and is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
Is regularly reviewed by the Board and complies with the Financial Reporting Councils revised On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee carried guidance for directors on internal control: and out its annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls during 2009 using the following to Necessary actions have been or are being taken to support its conclusions: remedy any significant failings identified as part of the ongoing risk management process.
Quarterly reports from the Chairman of the Group Risk Committee and the Global Head of Compliance on the control environment within the Group, highlighting any major instances of noncompliance and the actions being taken to remedy such non-compliance: Regular risk reports provided by Group Risk management setting out the most significant risks faced by the Group, and where appropriate quantifying these exposures: Quarterly reports from the Group General Counsel outlining the Groups legal risks: Quarterly reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the key issues arising from Internal Audits inspection programme: Internal Audits review of the effectiveness and application of the risk management process: Annual and regular reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the control environment: and The ICAAP internal assessment of the capital required to support the business.
This includes a series of rigorous stress tests designed to address the potential impact of the material risks facing the Group.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009
