38043 pp009-030 File0306 03 201001:00Page16 16 Key risks and mitigations Managing risk Internal Audit provides retrospective assurance over For many years the management of risk has been the operation of controls and is the third line of embedded in our culture.
Like any asset management defence against unanticipated outcomes.
business we are exposed to a range of risks.
These Individual risks are managed in a variety of different risks, if not managed properly, increase the possibility ways depending on the nature of the risks and of the Group not being able to meet its objectives.
their potential impacts to mitigate adverse The executive oversight of risk lies with the Chief consequences.
We continuously upgrade our risk Financial Officer, supported by the Group Risk control processes and technological support tools Committee.
The non-executive oversight of risk lies to increase their effectiveness.
A detailed description of the The following is a summary of the risks that the Board governance framework is set out later in the Annual currently considers key to our business.
It is not Report and Accounts in the risk management and intended to provide an exhaustive list of all the risks internal controls report.
faced by our business or a complete list of all the The external events of 2007 and 2008, including the controls in operation.
failure of Northern Rock and Lehman Brothers, together with the government bailouts of banks and Market and liquidity risk other financial institutions, caused us to reassess how We face risks from movements in the financial markets we manage risk.
We now group the risks we face into in which we operate, arising from holding investments More information on market and liquidity risks, credit risks, operational risks as both principal and agent.
We have principal risk management and and emerging risks.
exposure in our Private Banking business where we internal control can be found hold bank paper and government securities.
The in the governance section.
We are in the business of seeking a return on risks Groups investment capital is invested in bank paper: taken on behalf of our clients.
The first line of defence government and corporate bonds: fixed income: against unexpected outcomes lies with line managers equities: hedge funds: property: and private equity.
whether they are investors, Distribution employees There is agency exposure in Asset Management and or part of infrastructure support.
Consequently, a Private Banking in respect of the assets we manage designated senior member of management who on behalf of our clients.
sits on the Group Management Committee has risk management responsibility within each business area.
Market risk The senior management team, supported by its Market risk arises from market movements which can management functions, takes the lead role in cause a fall in the value of principal investments and a ensuring that appropriate controls are in place decline in the value of funds under management.
across the business to maintain the quality standards Revenues and net new business are also at risk from expected by our clients and regulators.
It is the a failure to meet performance targets or a loss of responsibility of all employees to ensure that the confidence in markets that can affect investors in a control culture of Schroders is embedded within period of falling markets.
Market risk within Private Banking, arising from the Line management is supplemented by independent assets held on the balance sheet, is monitored and oversight functions led by the Chief Risk Officer which managed at a local level and collectively by the Private provide a second line of defence.
The Chief Risk Banking Risk Committee.
Group management Officer has allocated responsibility for each category regularly reviews all holdings within Group capital.
All of risk to a member of his team.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp009-030 File0306 03 201001:00Page17 17 principal investments across all businesses are Operational risk managed within approved limits.
Operational risk arises through the investment process, distribution channels, product development Our geographically diversified, broad product range and the operation of our infrastructure, and as a enables us to provide clients with solutions tailored to consequence of our diversified business model.
a variety of market conditions and serves to diversify individual market dependencies.
Investment Investment performance risk is the risk that portfolios Liquidity risk will not meet their investment objectives.
We adhere to Liquidity risk is the risk that cashflows cannot be a clearly defined investment process which seeks to generated to meet redemptions or other obligations as meet investment targets within stated risk parameters.
Liquidity issues can arise as a result of market Individual portfolio performance, valuations and conditions or through inherently illiquid investments.
risk profiles are monitored by fund managers and To mitigate this risk within client portfolios, we seek to management on a regular basis, allowing issues to match, where possible, the liquidity of a portfolios be identified and mitigated.
We use tools and underlying investments with its liquidity requirements.
governance principles within our investment risk We actively monitor the market for indicators of framework and we review performance that lies declines in liquidity to enable pre-emptive actions outside expectations.
We also review products and portfolios to identify capacity constraints.
Recognising that not all products will outperform all of the time, we also offer a diversified product set Each of our regulated subsidiaries and the Group which reduces the concentration of risk on the as a whole meet regulatory capital requirements.
In performance of any one fund or asset class.
addition, we also maintain sufficient liquidity on our balance sheet for our anticipated needs taking Fund performance is monitored as part of our account of the risks we face.
investment performance risk management process.
Credit risk Distribution We face credit risk as a result of counterparty Distribution risks arise from relationship management exposure.
In order to manage this risk we actively across different distribution channels and products.
monitor counterparty creditworthiness and operate We distribute through three channels, institutional with limits expressed in terms of value and term to clients, often advised by consultants: retail clients, maturity.
Where possible, we also diversify our intermediated through banks, brokers and exposure across different counterparties.
independent advisers: and private clients.
The broad range of distribution channels mitigates against a key All counterparties are reviewed on a regular basis and dependency on any channel.
No single client limits are amended following changes to their financial accounts for more than one per cent.
We actively monitor market data and rating agency outputs in assessing counterparties.
Product Product risk arises from complexity and the We also face credit risk through lending to private development of new, sophisticated products to meet clients by Private Banking, although this is mitigated changes in client demand.
We have a dedicated where possible through collateralisation in the form of product development team and a new product cash, portfolio investments or property.
The management of risk is embedded in our culture.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp009-030 File0306 03 201001:00Page18 18 Key risks and mitigations continued Product risk can also arise from capacity constraints Clear objectives are also set for each employee and where demand exceeds the easily accessible supply we measure success in the annual review process.
of investments capable of delivering the required This allows us to identify employee development return.
We actively monitor potential capacity initiatives which are a motivational force in retaining constraints and mitigate by closing the product talented executives.
Geographic diversity Technology Our business is diverse and international which We are reliant on technology and qualified mitigates aggregate risks whilst introducing local professionals to maintain our infrastructure.
Our risks as a result of local laws, business custom and technology is partly outsourced and our platform tradition.
We employ local staff with local expertise utilises well-established, tested technology from and also move employees internationally around outsourcers judged to be financially stable and able the Group.
to provide the required level of service.
Outsourced suppliers are an important part of our business model Emerging risks and we work with our outsourced suppliers to Emerging risks are associated with situations outside maintain the quality and continuity of service.
Detailed Schroders that could cause risk to the Group.
These due diligence is undertaken before entering into new are the hardest to define.
We are concerned currently arrangements, and performance is reviewed on an that regulatory developments could inadvertently ongoing basis.
affect the fund management industry due to changing regulation for the financial sector as a whole.
Continuity and business resumption planning is in We therefore maintain a dialogue with regulators and place across the business with clear identification respond to consultations to assist them in their of key staff.
supervisory duties and draw their attention to important concerns.
People All of our operations are heavily dependent on people.
The changing financial positions of countries can High quality resource is relatively scarce in our affect their financial stability.
We allocate our capital industry.
We ensure we employ people with skill sets within operational constraints to spread our appropriate to our changing business needs.
requires the recruitment and development of specialist skills as the range of our product offerings deepens and our investment and distribution strategies develop into more complex areas.
To mitigate human resource risks, we have competitive remuneration plans, with appropriate deferred benefits, targeted at key staff.
We also operate from several international centres to reduce the reliance on single pools of talent and individual country stability.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009
