RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Any investment in the shares of Scottish Mortgage involves risk.
You should be aware of the following risk factors that apply to investment trusts and investment through savings vehicles.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
Details of other risks that apply to investment in the plans shown on page 50 are contained in the plan brochures.
Scottish Mortgage is listed on the stockmarket.
As a result, the value of the shares, and any income from those shares, is not Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC is a UK public listed guaranteed and could go down as well as up.
You may not get company and as such complies with requirements of the UK back the amount you invested.
You should view your investment Listing Authority.
It is not authorised and regulated by the as long term.
As Scottish Mortgage invests in overseas securities, changes The following risk factors only apply to investment in in the rates of exchange may also cause the value of your the Investment Trust ISA: investment and any income it may pay to go down or up.
You should be aware that in the case of a transfer, if you change Scottish Mortgage can borrow money to make further investments your mind and exercise your cooling-off rights, your previous ISA sometimes known as gearing.
The risk is that when this money manager is under no obligation to accept your proceeds back.
In is repaid by the Trust, the value of these investments may not this case, all tax bene ts will be lost.
If your previous ISA manager be enough to cover the borrowing and interest costs, and the accepts your money back, there may be costs involved.
If the Trusts investments fall in value, any Investors should also note that during an ISA transfer the transfer borrowings will increase the amount of this loss.
proceeds will be uninvested for a period of time between Scottish Mortgage can buy back and cancel its own shares.
the sale of their existing holdings and the reinvestment of the The risks from borrowing, referred to above, are increased proceeds following the end of the cooling-off period and when a trust buys back and cancels its shares.
therefore they are exposed to the risk of missing any rise in the market during that time.
Scottish Mortgage charges 50% of the investment management fee and 50% of borrowing costs to capital which reduces Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited BGSM is the manager the capital value.
Also, where income is low, the remaining of The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, The Baillie Gifford expenses may be greater than the total income received, Childrens Savings Plan and The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA.
meaning Scottish Mortgage may not pay a dividend and the BGSM has provided the information about these savings vehicles.
capital value would be further reduced.
BGSM is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford & Co who are the Managers and Secretaries of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust The staff of Baillie Gifford & Co, and or the Directors of Scottish Mortgage, may hold shares in Scottish Mortgage or may buy or PLC.
BGSM and Baillie Gifford & Co are authorised and regulated sell shares from time to time, subject to Baillie Giffords personal by the Financial Services Authority and both are based at Calton account dealing rules.
Baillie Gifford only provides information about its products and does The value of tax reliefs will depend on your individual not provide investment advice.
circumstances and tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax treatment of ISAs could change at any time in the future.
