3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Risk and Risk Management The mechanisms for identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring risks are an integral part of our day to day management process.
Understanding the risks we face and managing them appropriately enables effective decision making, contributes to our competitive advantage and helps us to achieve our business objectives.
In the following sections we outline the framework for the Risk Policies management of risk in the Group.
We provide detail on In support of our Risk Appetite Statement, we have a the main strategic risks facing the business and associated number of formal Risk Policies which clearly establish our management activity, followed by individual sections on: objectives, principles and high level management activity in relation to the areas of risk that the Group faces.
When Market Risk on page 24 recording risk we use these categories to help improve Credit Risk on page 25 understanding of our exposure.
Liquidity and Currency Risk on page 26 Insurance Risk on page 26 The Risk Committee and Group Risk Function Operational Risk on page 27 Overseeing our Risk Management Framework is the Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee is made up of nonThis information is an integral part of the audited financial executive Board members responsible for ensuring that statements.
a culture of effective risk identification and management is fostered across the Group.
The Committee is also Risk appetite Statement responsible for reviewing and assessing corporate, emerging The Board is ultimately responsible for setting the and topical risks.
Further information setting out the framework within which risk is managed at St. Jamess activities of the Risk Committee is set out on pages 47 Place SJP.
At the centre of this framework is our Risk and 48.
The Risk Committee is supported by a central Group In our Risk Appetite Statement, the Board clearly sets Risk function whose primary role is to ensure that an out our risk boundaries a specification of the types of appropriate Risk Management Framework is in place, risks the Group is willing to take and to what extent.
The that it is fit for purpose and is working as intended.
Statement is regularly reviewed and updated by the Board to The Group Risk function is responsible for the ongoing ensure that it remains current and continues to take account development and co-ordination of risk management of the implications of any emerging or topical risk.
within SJP and, importantly, for the consolidation, reporting and, where appropriate, escalation of risk Some examples of activities that our Risk Appetite related management information.
Statement currently explicitly inhibits are: providing guarantees on investment returns or options for unit linked funds: manufacturing any general insurance or lending products, or assuming insurance or credit risk arising from them, other than PI insurance manufacture through the captive arrangement: and the sale of with-profits business.
Business Review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 St. Jamess Place plc.
3183415 23 Strategic Risks and Uncertainties Certain risks and uncertainties are inherent within both the Groups business model and the market in which we operate.
At the time of preparing this report, the key risks and uncertainties facing the business, and the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate these risks are: RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT Distribution capability The Groups distribution strength may be eroded We employ a number of specialist managers specifically to manage the due to an inability to recruit and retain Partners recruitment and retention of high quality Partners.
Formal retention of the appropriate quality.
strategies are in place to ensure that, wherever possible, we retain good quality, experienced Partners.
All recruitment and retention activity is closely monitored.
Investment Our approach to investment management may We actively manage and monitor the performance of our investment management approach fail to deliver expected returns to clients of the managers through the Investment Committee and a firm of professional Group.
Outsourcing The Groups dependence on outsourcing We maintain close working relationships with our outsourced business may come under threat should any of its key partners and should have sufficient warning of any material changes that investment management or administration may impact upon our business model.
All relationships are governed business partners decide to exit the market, by formal agreements with adequate notice periods and full exit significantly revise their strategy or fail.
Strong alternative providers exist in the market.
Business continuity arrangements have been considered and scenario analysis carried out.
Competitor activity A major and successful new entrant to the We closely monitor competitor activity and the marketplace for signs adviser-based wealth management market has an of any potential new entrants or threats.
As noted above, we also have impact on the success of SJPs business.
a proven track record in Partner acquisition and retention which we believe would make it difficult for a new entrant to challenge SJPs position.
Established SJP Partners have significant equity stakes in their practices and these are structured to aid retention.
Culture Developments in the industry or in the scale of We have a range of strategic initiatives in place including, for example, SJPs business have an adverse effect on SJPs regular staff surveys and consultation groups which enable us to culture and ultimately the continuing success of monitor the sentiment of our staff and Partners, identify any adverse the business.
or potential adverse impacts upon our culture, and allow us to take appropriate action.
Economic A major and prolonged economic downturn We closely monitor the achievement of our business plan, the environment and or stock market crash leads to a performance of the markets and consumer confidence.
Robust failure to meet targets and to a significant management information is used to facilitate this monitoring and to underperformance of our business plan.
identify early signals of a market decline so we can manage expenses and strategy appropriately.
3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Risk and Risk Management continued Market Risk Market risk is the impact a fall in equity or other asset values may have on the business.
The Group adopts a risk averse approach to market risk with a stated policy of not actively pursuing or accepting market risk except where necessary to support other objectives.
The Group seeks to manage market risk by undertaking unit linked business whereby the client bears the market risk.
This strategy mitigates any risk to the Group associated with being unable to meet clients liabilities.
However, a reduction in the market value of the unit linked funds would affect the annual management charges paid to the Group, since these charges are based on the market value of funds under management.
The associated reduction in dividends could also result in the deferral of tax relief on UK life business expenses and indirectly could also be associated with a reduction in the volume of new business sales.
The Group accepts the risk associated with the level of future profits.
Management of Market Risks The table below summarises the main market risks that the business is exposed to and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate those risks: RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT Shareholder funds The value of shareholder funds decreases, Financial assets and liabilities held outside unitised funds primarily thereby reducing the capital available to support consist of low volatility government, supranational fixed interest the business.
securities, units in AAA rated money market funds, cash and cash equivalents.
Client liabilities As a result of a reduction in equity values the There is no risk to the Group in this area as market risk is borne by group may be unable to meet client liabilities.
This has been achieved by the Groups strategic focus on unit linked business.
Tax In adverse market conditions, when the Group is The tax position is monitored closely.
realising investment losses rather than gains, the working of the I-E tax regime can lead to shortterm capital inefficiencies including deferral of cash benefit of tax relief on expenses.
Retention Adverse market conditions lead to clients Retention of funds is monitored closely.
Currently retention has withdrawing their funds.
New business Poor performance in the stock market leads The benefit of long-term equity investment is fundamental to the to existing and future clients rejecting business model.
Advice and marketing remain valid even when market equity investment.
values fall: however greater attention is required to support and give confidence to existing and future clients, in such circumstances, and this the Group does.
3183415 25 Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of loss due to a debtors non-payment of a loan or other line of credit.
The Group has adopted a risk averse approach to such risk and has a stated policy of not actively pursuing or accepting credit risk except when necessary to support other objectives.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is mitigated by a number of policies including the SJP Group Credit Policy and SJP Group Reinsurance Policy.
Management of Credit Risks The table below summarises the main credit risks to which the business is exposed and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT Shareholder assets Loss of assets.
Invested in AAA rated unitised money market funds and deposits with approved banks.
Maximum counterparty limits are set for each company within the Group and aggregate limits are also set at a Group level.
Investment matching Failure of counterparty or counterparty unable It is necessary for the credit ratings of potential reinsurers to meet of non-linked to meet liabilities.
or exceed minimum specified levels.
Consideration is also given to liabilities size, risk concentrations exposures and ownership in the selection of reinsurers.
The Group also seeks to diversify its reinsurance credit risk through the use of a spread of reinsurers.
Reinsurance In adverse market conditions, when the Group is The tax position is monitored closely.
Partner loans Inability of Partners to repay loans from Loans are managed in line with the Secured Lending Policy.
are explicitly or implicitly secured on the future renewals income stream expected from a Partners portfolio, and loan size varies in relation to the projected future income of a Partner.
Outstanding balances are reviewed on a regular basis and support is provided to help Partners manage their business appropriately.
Appropriate provision is made where impairment risk is high.
3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Risk and Risk Management continued Liquidity Risk Currency Risk The Group adopts a risk averse approach to liquidity risk, with a policy The Group is not subject to any significant currency risk since all of not actively pursuing liquidity risk except where necessary to support material financial assets and financial liabilities are denominated other objectives.
The Group is subject to minimal liquidity risk since it in Sterling.
maintains a high level of liquid assets to meet its liabilities rather than relying on recourse to the market.
Insurance Risk The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts under which the Group agrees to compensate the client or other beneficiary if a specified future event the insured event occurs.
The Group insures mortality and morbidity risks but has no longevity risk or annuity business.
The Group has a medium appetite for insurance risk, only actively pursuing where financially beneficial, or in support of strategic objectives.
We seek to manage insurance risk through the use of reassurance, reviewable contract terms, regular pricing reviews and underwriting controls.
The terms and conditions of the insurance contracts offered by the Group and our reassurance programme determine the level of risk accepted by the Group.
The general terms and conditions of the main insurance contracts and the main insurance risks are set out in the table below.
The Group has no with-profit contracts.
CATEGORY ESSENTIAL TERMS RISKS GENERATED CLIENT GUARANTEE Unit linked reviewable Deductions from units pay for benefits.
assurances Deductions are reviewable at any time.
Conventional reviewable Regular premiums pay for benefits.
Mortality, morbidity, Premium level guaranteed between reviews.
assurances Premium level is reviewable every fifth expense.
Conventional guaranteed Premium level fixed throughout life.
Mortality, expense Premium and benefit level guaranteed.
assurances Management of Insurance Risks The table below summarises the main insurance risks to which the insurance business is exposed and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT Underwriting Failure to price appropriately for a risk, or the Experience is monitored regularly.
For most business the premium or impact of anti-selection.
deduction rates can be re-set.
Epidemic disaster An unusually large number of claims arising Protection is provided through reassurance.
from a single incident or event.
Expense Administration costs exceed expense allowance.
Administration is outsourced and a tariff of costs is agreed.
The contract is monitored regularly to rationalise costs incurred.
Internal overhead expenses are monitored and closely managed.
Persistency Loss of product margins due to higher than Lapse rates are monitored and unexpected experience is investigated.
3183415 27 Operational Risk Operational risk is the risk arising from inadequately controlled internal Each division of the Group is responsible for identifying, managing and processes or systems, human error and from external events.
This reporting its operational risks as part of the quarterly risk reporting includes all risks that we are exposed to, other than the financial and process.
There is an Operational Risk Policy which expresses the insurance risks described above.
The Group has a medium appetite for Group risk appetite and provides the business with guidance on how to operational risk, only actively pursuing where necessary to support manage this type of risk.
Each risk is assessed by considering its potential other objectives, and seeks to manage it through outsourcing and close impact and the probability of its occurrence.
Impact assessments are management of the Partnership.
Operational risks that could affect made against financial and non-financial metrics.
This is consistent SJP include: with the assessment of all other type of risk as specified in the SJP Risk Management Framework document.
Regulation, information technology, financial crime, business protection, human resources, outsourcing, purchasing, Management of operational Risks communications and legal contracts and obligations The table below summarises the main operational risks to which the Brand value business is exposed and the methods by which the Group seeks to Product development process mitigate them.
Advice, sales management and distribution Financial processes including financial reporting and taxation External events and developments RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT Advice Advice given by an individual Partner or Advice guidelines are agreed by technical specialists and reviewed by authorised by the Group is deemed unsuitable Group management.
These guidelines are supported by training and leading to redress, costs and potential accreditation arrangements that have been established, with close reputation damage.
compliance monitoring to ensure advice guidelines are followed.
Appropriate incentives exist to promote Partner compliance, whilst those failing to do so are subject to censure and other sanctions.
Retail Distribution Changes arising from the Retail Distribution Strategic plans in place to move Partnership towards achieving Diploma Review Review, particularly in relation to status ahead of 2012 deadline and to manage the outcome of the adviser professionalism, proposals to split the market charging review.
and implications for advised sales.
Regulatory censure That the Group could face regulatory censure We seek to maintain open and mutually beneficial relationships with should it fail to comply with regulation.
We have a range of compliance monitoring activities designed to ensure we remain compliant with all applicable regulations.
Regulatory Changes in the wider regulatory, legislative or Governance structure, management committees and active and legislative tax environment have an adverse impact on the management of the FSA relationship provides intelligence and tools to environment Groups business.
mitigate the impact of operating in a highly regulated sector.
