Net Asset Value Total Return The portfolio will typically provide a yield premium to the market.
The final dividend recommended In reviewing the performance of the assets of the for the year is 23.0p per ordinary share which Companys portfolio the Board monitors the net brings the total for the year to 33.50p per asset value in relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
ordinary share, an increase of 2.0%.
This is the During the year the net asset value total return of 26th consecutive year in which the Company has the Company was 45.0% compared with a total increased the overall level of its dividend payment.
return of 30.1% by the FTSE All-Share Index.
Total Expense Ratio TER Performance Attribution The TER is an expression of the Companys The purpose of performance attribution analysis management fees and all other operating expenses is to assess how the Company achieved its including tax relief where allowable but excluding performance relative to its benchmark index.
interest payments as a percentage of average Details of the attribution analysis for the year month end net assets over the year.
The TER for ended 31 December 2009 are given below.
the year ended 31 December 2009 was 0.46% ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS % 2008 0.48%.
The Board reviews each year a for the year ended 31 December 2009 comparison of the Companys TER with those of its Change in Net Asset Value excluding retained income per Ordinary Share 37.34 peers.
At the present time the Company has one of Income distributed to shareholders 8.25 the lowest TERs in the growth and income sector of Impact of new shares issued 0.60 investment trust companies.
44.99 Expenses 0.64 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Finance costs 1.68 The principal risks facing the Company fall under Impact of gearing and valuation of debt the general categories of strategy, operational excluding retained income on portfolio balance 5.93 Effect of including income in ungeared and management risks.
With the assistance of Net Asset Value calculation 2.76 the Manager the Board has drawn up a risk Change in total return in ungeared matrix which identifies the key risks to the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share 38.62 Company under these broad headings.
The Board reviews and agrees policies, which have remained Total return of FTSE All-Share Index 30.12 unchanged since the beginning of the accounting as % of opening Total Assets period, for managing these risks, as summarised Discount on Net Asset Value below.
The Board monitors the premium discount at Investment Strategy which the Companys shares trade in relation to An inappropriate investment strategy on matters the assets.
During the year the shares traded at such as asset allocation or the level of gearing an average discount to NAV of 1.6%.
This may lead to underperformance against the compares with an average discount of 6.0% in Companys benchmark index or peer companies, the previous year.
Good relative performance has resulting in the Companys shares trading on a helped maintain the discount at a steady level wider discount.
The Board manages such risks by although the discount had widened to 8.1% at diversification of investments through its the year end.
The Board and Manager closely investment restrictions and guidelines, which are monitor both movements in the Companys share monitored and reported on by the Manager.
The price and significant dealings in the shares.
In Manager provides the directors with regular and order to avoid substantial overhangs or accurate management information including shortages of shares in the market the Board asks absolute and relative performance data, shareholders to approve resolutions which allow attribution analysis, revenue estimates, liquidity for the buy back of shares and their issuance reports, risk profile and shareholder analysis.
The which can assist in the management of the Board monitors the implementation and results discount.
Regular demand generated by monthly of the investment process with the investment investment in the Savings Scheme and the use of manager, who attends Board meetings.
marketing and promotional activity also assist in Periodically the Board holds a separate meeting keeping the discount at an acceptable level.
devoted to strategy, the most recent one being in May 2008.
Earnings and Dividend Per Share It remains the directors intention to distribute Income Risk Dividends over time by way of dividends substantially all of Generating the necessary level of income from the Companys net revenue income after expenses portfolio investments to meet the Companys and taxation.
The Manager aims to maximise total expenses and to provide adequate reserves from returns from the portfolio and attaches great which to base a sustainable programme of importance to dividends in achieving total return.
increasing dividend payments to shareholders is T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 17 17
