Directors Report Business Review Group Risks and Uncertainties Group Risk and Business Assurance functions identify, evaluate and manage the risks the Group faces on an ongoing basis.
The table below summarises the more material risks to the Group, and how we seek to mitigate them in the day-to-day running of the business.
Specific risk Potential impact Mitigation Insufficient funding affects ability to Banking facilities currently provide substantial Going concern continue trading.
headroom, and do not start to mature until 2012, providing significant time before refinancing is necessary.
Loss of market share and erosion of margins Our strategy is to reinvest the benefits of scale Competitive from increased competition.
into our customer proposition to keep barriers environment to entry high and to maximise value for our customers.
We have continued to see market share gains as a result of this strategy.
Weak customer retention as a result of poor We have continued to make significant TalkTalk brand customer service.
improvements in customer service, and expect perception our substantial investment in new CRM systems to enhance service further in the year ahead.
Failure to provide a reliable service causes We focus continuously on improving network Capacity and customer churn.
resilience and performance, and continue to functionality of invest to ensure that we keep pace with network customers growing demands.
infrastructure Failure to provide adequate service levels or to In addition to our substantial investment in Capacity and manage back office processes.
CRM systems for TalkTalk Group, we have functionality of I. T. continued to invest to improve the functionality infrastructure and resilience of our other front and back office systems.
Profits adversely affected by exchange rate Exchange rate exposures have been reduced Exchange rates movements: value of assets and liabilities significantly in the year: our exposure to similarly affected.
Swiss Francs has been materially eliminated following the repatriation of our brand management company: our exposure to other European currencies has also reduced as a result of the sale of half of our non-Sterling businesses to Best Buy.
com 23 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Business Review Corporate Responsibility A proud employer and member of the community Our primary corporate responsibilities are towards our employees, our customers and our neighbours.
Our CSR activities are accordingly focused in these areas, where we can make the biggest difference.
Retail, as any shopkeeper will tell you, Originally a telephone service, is detail: businesses do well because Get Connected now has a hugely they get 1,000 little things right, as much successful webchat platform as well.
as they do because they have a great Get Connected provides young people market position or they are selling the with help by: latest hot product.
providing emotional support: We take the same view with our CSR programme.
We dont have a grand advising on options available to them: mission statement or a big budget, but and are gradually looking at all aspects of our business to see how we can do things putting them in touch with the services better improve the environment, make they need.
working easier for our employees, and give something back to the community In addition to raising funds for the that supports us.
Over the next few charity, Best Buy Europe also covers all pages, we have highlighted some of the overheads for the charity, including office projects that are new or have made good accommodation, IT equipment and progress during the year.
In addition, support, telecommunications and utility we have started to set ourselves some bills, printing, mailing and marketing targets for CSR, so our performance support.
We also offer our employees can be properly quantified by our the chance to earn additional holiday stakeholders.
if they become a helpline volunteer for Get Connected.
Charity partners Our two businesses each have their In February 2009, we held our fifth annual own partner charity.
Best Buy Europe charity auction for Get Connected.
supports Get Connected, and TalkTalk Despite the tougher economic climate, Group supports TreeHouse.
We have through the generosity of our guests and chosen to back two small charities that those who donated lots to the auction both relate to communication, so we we managed to raise over 140,000 can help them not only with fundraising, significantly more than our expectations.
but also with the more practical and technical support that is often harder TreeHouse for charities to come by.
TreeHouse is the national charity for autism education.
Its vision is to Get Connected transform through education the lives Get Connected provides a first point of of children with autism and the lives of contact for young people who need help.
24 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2009 setting up sponsored events, which Established in 1997 by a group of We plan to make BAOH one of our key parents, TreeHouse campaigns for better in the past have included skydiving, areas of focus and are stepping up our overseas challenges, runs and football autism education nationally and runs a placement programme.
In addition, school for children and young people tournaments: Carphone employees are being trained with autism.
It undertakes policy and as mentors, who will be resources for parliamentary work and research to raising money via handset recycling: homeless people as they seek ongoing ensure that autism is a national priority, advice on sustaining employment after supports parents in campaigning locally donating money saved by sending their placements.
out Christmas e-cards instead of and offers training and consultancy on autism education.
paper cards: Innovation in the Community The Innovation in the Community Awards Autism is a lifelong neurological condition holding a monthly collection in our were launched in 2007 to provide small support centres: and which affects communication, social cash awards and broadband connectivity understanding and behaviour.
One in to non-profit making institutions using our call centre facilities and 100 school age children have autism and looking to develop technology-based 27% of them have been excluded from volunteers to support major national applications to serve specific campaigns such as Comic Relief.
school, the majority more than once communities.
We believe technology Office of National Statistics, 2005. should be a social enabler, not something Community activities that creates a divide between the haves In April 2009, TreeHouse launched a new We give Community a broad definition: and the have nots, and these awards for us it encompasses not only our website, www.
uk, aim to address this gap.
where professionals and parents immediate geographical community, but other communities around the world are being encouraged to talk more In 2008 the TalkTalk Innovation in the about autism and share knowledge and the wider social community that Community Awards received over 2,200 our services help to create and maintain.
and experiences to achieve the entries over three times the number best educational outcomes for Our activities here are distinct from received in 2007.
Winners for the year our charity work in that they are of autistic children.
included: Screenreader, which supplies a more practical nature rather than free software allowing blind people the combination of financial and The launch was accompanied by the to read websites: Connection at publication of  skills support that we provide to St. Martins, which provides IT training our charity partners.
research that highlighted that parents to homeless people to help them get face a postcode lottery when it comes jobs and move off the streets: and Business in the Community BITC to the quality of services available to MusicLink, an arts project which gives autistic children, and that over half This year we signed up to BITC, the schoolchildren in isolated areas of primary national organisation for helping of teachers polled had not received Cumbria a chance to experiment with training to help them support children companies become better corporate music technology.
Martha Lane-Fox citizens across all areas of their activities.
was brought on board as a celebrity We are currently undergoing their judge to provide mentoring to five rigorous benchmarking exercise to TalkTalk Group helped to fund the overall category winners.
development of the website and was assess how we rate in terms of corporate responsibility relative to our peers.
These closely involved in the launch, helping to generate significant coverage in the results will not be for publication but will enable us to see where we are doing national and educational press.
well and where we should be looking to improve: our intention is to become The Carphone Warehouse Foundation The Carphone Warehouse Foundation part of their public benchmarking programme next year.
was set up over five years ago to support employees with their own fundraising Business Action on Homelessness initiatives for causes that are close to their own hearts.
Small grants are BAOH BITC runs the BAOH programme, which awarded to charities nominated by employees: or where there is a large is a partnership between business, homeless agencies and the Government.
demand for the same charity, a larger grant will be made on behalf of the whole BAOH aims to break the vicious cycle of no job, no home, no job by helping business.
homeless people gain and sustain We support our charitable activities employment.
Carphone Warehouse in a number of ways, including: has been a partner of BAOH for a few years and has provided several awarding extra days holiday for work placements resulting in some employees who commit to taking part participants being employed by us and in fundraising activities organised by some gaining employment elsewhere.
com 25 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Community projects Environmental impact We regularly organise overseas The Groups businesses are not, by their challenges in which a group of nature, particularly high impact in terms employees tackle an infrastructure of carbon emissions and waste, but that project in developing countries.
This is not to say that we are not committed work cuts across all of our key corporate to reducing our impact.
This year we responsibility areas, combining charity have begun to take some of the many fundraising, practical community work small steps needed to do business and employee engagement.
This year, differently and make a contribution to 33 employees travelled to Morocco to environmental sustainability.
Almost all build a bridge for a remote Berber tribe of our projects have a real financial to prevent them being cut off from the benefit to the business as well as an larger cities during floods, and raised environmental benefit, so they make over 30,000 for our charity partners sense on every level.
Carbon footprint Mobile phones and health The carbon footprint for our UK In 2007, the UK Mobile businesses is 46,000 tonnes.
Our goal Telecommunications and Health is to reduce this by 12% by 2012.
This Research MTHR programme published year we are calculating our non-UK a detailed report to provide an update carbon footprint and will publish on the research work it has been combined totals and targets in the undertaking since its inception in 2001. next annual report.
The work has been funded jointly by Government and Industry, and is run by Mobile phone recycling an independent programme management With customers typically replacing their committee to ensure that none of the mobile phones every two years, there contributors can influence the outcome is a huge number of old phones to be of the programme.
We have been recycling Warehouse has been a significant mobile phones for many years, either contributor to research in this area.
shipping them for refurbishment and use in developing markets, or breaking them None of the research supported by down into their constituent parts for the the programme and published so far materials to be used in other products.
demonstrates that biological or adverse health effects are produced by This year we recycled over 130,000 radiofrequency exposure from mobile handsets, an increase of nearly 30% phones.
Specifically, no association was on last year.
For every handset we found between short-term mobile phone receive around 10, so this has been use less than 10 years and cancers of a major contributor to our charity funds the brain and nervous system.
Similarly, over the last few years.
studies on electrical hypersensitivity have not supported the theory that In addition, we are compliant with the symptoms experienced by sufferers Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment result from exposure to signals from WEEE Regulations which came into mobile phones and base stations.
These regulations require us to finance the collection, treatment and The report proposed a further recovery of waste electrical equipment, programme of work to address areas and to allow customers to return their of outstanding concern, which it will waste equipment free of charge.
These include Information on the correct disposal of whether longer-term mobile phone usage WEEE is provided to customers with increases the risk of developing cancers relevant products and in stores.
of the brain and nervous system, and whether any effects of exposure Environmental initiatives to mobile phone signals are greater New environmental initiatives over the in children.
last year include: Journey Share: after introducing the The Carphone Warehouse continues to take a lead in communicating health scheme in December 2007, we now have over 500 members sharing lifts issues to customers, with leaflets in stores and the specific absorption rates to work: for every handset we sell listed in our buyers guide and on our website.
26 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Bin the bin: we started a trial in Engagement March 2009 with a view to rolling it out The highlights of our employee across the business as soon as engagement activities over the last year possible: were: water coolers: we have started the the Morocco project described above: process of replacing spring water coolers with mains-fed units: a sponsored Skydive for 50 employees that raised over 15,000 for our charity lighting: support centre refits are using partners: low intensity lighting and motion sensors: and supporting Comic Relief, with 120 employees giving up a Friday evening store lighting: we are installing motion to staff our call centres to take pledges sensitive lighting in all back office from the public: areas of our stores.
receiving the Bronze Award for Payroll Employees Giving by CAF for the number of We continue to take employee employees who make regular engagement very seriously.
We want charitable donations through payroll.
people to enjoy working for the Group, We are aiming to reach the gold to feel that they are being respected and standard by 2010: and that there are genuine prospects for career and personal development, and a mentoring scheme which encourages most of all to be part of a good team.
Pulse survey Training and development We introduced Pulse, our new employee There has been a huge amount of survey, in February 2008, and now take change in our store proposition over the soundings from employees on a range last 12 months, as we start to offer of issues every three months.
Employee laptops, mobile broadband and other engagement, the extent to which connected services more widely.
We employees are psychologically and could not have done this without a highly emotionally attached to their work, successful training programme, which positively influences customer involved all of our UK retail employees satisfaction, sales and other measures attending a wireless bootcamp an of productivity.
Employee engagement intensive course for 8,000 people to is a key performance indicator within teach them about the new products and the Group.
All employees who passed a subsequent test were rewarded All managers receive data on with their own laptop.
engagement within their team and the majority have now been trained in how We have also continued to invest in to improve it.
As a result the Group our leaders and managers, and have has seen its already high levels of engaged a specialist consultant to engagement increase.
When first manage an extensive leadership measured in February 2008, 75% of development programme, designed to employees were engaged.
After manager maximise their own potential and also training and work amongst the majority bring out the best from their teams.
of teams the engagement figure for the group measured 81% in February 2009.
Employee turnover Measurement and improvement Employee turnover can be a significant programmes continue throughout the cost to a business, and given the young year with a view to further increasing average age typically prevalent in retail and call centre operations, the Group our performance in this metric.
is particularly sensitive to changes One area where we scored less well was in leaving rates.
that employees do not feel that their opinion is being valued.
To address this, we have introduced several listening campaigns such as Bringing Back the Magic and Every Penny Counts.
These campaigns involve us actively seeking out our employees opinions, and we had over 300 money-saving ideas in response to our Every Penny Counts campaign.
com 27 Directors Report Business Review
