THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued An interim dividend of 0.90p per Sigma share was paid management of risk and internal controls is contained in on 13 January 2009 to shareholders on the register at the Corporate Governance Report on pages 56 to 61.
Management Arrangements and Fees Capital Return Throughout the period investment management 2009 2008 Change arrangements have been provided by Thames River Capital NAV per Sigma share 61.34p 108.64p -43.5% LLP Thames River, accounting and administrative services Sigma Share Price 39.00p 92.00p -57.6% by BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited, custodial services by JP Morgan Chase and company secretarial Falls in property equity prices resulted in a reduction in services by Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited.
shareholders funds of 44.8% per Sigma share.
Over the The significant terms of the investment management same period the price only element of the benchmark fell agreement with Thames River are as follows: by 51.2%.
Notice Period Details of the investments held in the Sigma portfolio are The investment management agreements IMAs shown in the Managers Report on pages 37 to 41. provide for termination of the agreements by either Performance Measurement party without compensation on the provision of not The directors consider performance measured against the less than 12 months written notice.
benchmark to be the key performance indicator for the Management Fees share class.
The Benchmark for the share class for the Ordinary share class period to 31 March 2009 was the FTSE EPRA NAREIT For the period under review, a base management fee Europe Index in Sterling.
of 0.70% pa on the net asset value of the Ordinary share class was paid quarterly in advance to the From 1 April 2009, the Benchmark for the share class is Investment Manager.
For the period up to 31 March FTSE EPRA NAREIT Small Cap Europe Index in Sterling.
This 2009 a rebate applied to reduce the management benchmark, provided by FTSE, is FTSE EPRA NAREIT Europe fee to 0.40% pa on any portion of the share class net Index in Sterling, adjusted to exclude those stocks with a asset value exceeding 450m.
The constituents are adjusted quarterly.
Further details and the rationale for this The fee is based on the share class net asset value change are set out in the Chairmans Statement.
determined in accordance with the Association of Investment Companies AIC method of valuation On a total return basis the Sigma share class returned on the last day of March, June, September and -42.3% against a Benchmark total return of -48.6%.
The performance for the financial year just ended and the Management fee arrangements for the period outlook for the forthcoming financial year are covered in commencing 1 April 2009 were due for review.
The detail in the Chairmans Statement, Market Background board decided that the usual industry practice of and Outlook and Sigma Class Managers Report on pages charging management fees based totally on the value 6 to 15 and 31 to 36. of the underlying assets under management did not fully align the manager and shareholder interests.
Share Buy-back Activity Although some elements of costs covered by the fee During the year to 31 March 2009, the Company clearly do increase or decrease as assets under repurchased 2,758,000 Sigma shares at an average cost management increase or decrease, there is a of 52.59p per share.
substantial overhead of employing and accommodating a quality fund management team which is effectively a Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk fixed cost.
The Board have therefore agreed a revised By its nature as an investment trust, the portfolios of both management fee of which a substantial proportion is share classes are exposed to market price risk, foreign fixed with a small ad valorem element.
currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Companys policies for managing these risks are outlined in note 11 to the The fee for the Ordinary share class for the period from financial statements.
Further information on the 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010 is a fixed fee for the 50 TR Property Investment Trust
