Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Executive management Risk management Risk management and the operation of the internal control systems within the Group are primarily the responsibility of the executive Risk management governance structure directors and the senior management.
These individuals are Introduction permitted commercial independence and exibility within Risk management is embedded throughout the business, with the parameters agreed by the Board to ensure that risks are clearly overall risk appetite and risk management strategy being approved owned and managed on a day-to-day basis and that systems of by the Board, and then propagated down throughout the business control operate effectively.
The principal elements of the Groups risk management and governance structure are as set out below.
Under the overall supervision of the Board and the Chief Executive, the management team continues to implement their business The systems of internal control operated by the Group are designed development plans and monitor operational projects.
The executive to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve directors monitor activities on a daily basis and ensure that business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not appropriate controls are exercised over the Groups operations.
The absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Board considers the monthly management accounts, budgets and plans and discusses any issues arising.
The Board The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite, Group risk control ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective risk management The Group Risk Control function is responsible for developing framework, and for monitoring the ongoing process for identifying, policies and monitoring mechanisms which ensure that the Group evaluating, managing and reporting the signi cant risks faced by operates in accordance with the Boards risk appetite, and also for the Group.
providing daily and monthly reports to senior management which are reviewed by the Group Treasury and Risk Committee.
The Group ICAAP Treasurer and Head of Risk Control reports to the Finance Director, The Board is responsible for approving the Groups Internal Capital and has direct access to and dialogue with, the Chairman of the Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP required by the FSA.
ICAAP formally documents that the Groups capital resources are suf cient to cover the Pillar 1 requirements and assesses whether The members of the Group Treasury and Risk Committee are the these resources are suf cient to cover those additional risks Chief Executive, who acts as chairman, the Finance Director and identi ed during the Pillar 2 review.
The ICAAP documentation is the Group Treasurer and Head of Group Risk Control.
The minutes of regularly updated and formally approved by the Board at least the Group Treasury and Risk Committee are circulated to the Board.
Group Risk Control is also responsible for maintaining the Group Risk assessment framework Risk Management Principles and Policies document.
This document The Group identi es, assesses and monitors risk through the use of speci es the practices and policies to be adopted throughout the a Risk Assessment Framework, which is approved by the Board.
business including relevant limits and controls in order to manage the risks identi ed in the Risk Assessment Framework.
The Risk Assessment Framework identi es risks within eight risk categories: Market Risk, Credit Risk, Operational Risk, Strategic and Risk reporting Business Risk, Governance Risk, Regulatory, Legal and Human The embedded risk management processes ensure that the Group Resources Risk, Reputational Risk and Financial Risk.
The risks within Treasury and Risk Committee, executive directors and senior each area are analysed, mitigating factors assessed, and relevant management receive appropriate information and exception controls identi ed.
The risks are then graded for their expected reports to comply with the Groups risk management principles and severity and probability, and a risk rating assigned to them to enable policies, and identify any new risks or exposures that may arise.
the Board to prioritise its attention to them.
Action is taken by the These include reports detailing the current status of existing Board to manage the key risks as and when it considers appropriate, controls, audits, loss events, and any required action plans to so as to safeguard the Group and the interests of its shareholders.
remedy any identi ed shortcomings in the control environment.
Risk reporting has been signi cantly updated during 2009 to The Risk Assessment Framework is regularly updated and is enhance the clarity and depth of information reported to senior reviewed at least twice each year by the Board, with particular focus management.
As well as being used to assist with the ICAAP, the Risk Assessment Framework is also used to provide guidance for Compliance the development of the internal audit plan, as well as determining The Groups lead regulator is the FSA.
The Groups broking the frequency and content of the ongoing risk reporting provided by subsidiaries are categorised as either Limited Activity Firms for the Group Risk Control function.
subsidiaries that undertake any Matched Principal or exchange traded give-up business or Limited Licence Firms for subsidiaries that undertake only Name Give-Up business.
Tullett Prebon plc 15 Annual Report 2009 Business Review continued The Groups Compliance Department monitor compliance with Policies and procedures exist to reduce the likelihood of such trade the various regulatory requirements to which the Group is subject, mismatches and, in the event that they arise, the Groups policy including not only those imposed by the UK regulatory regime is to close out such balances immediately.
All market risks arising but also those imposed by the regulatory framework of the other across the Group are identi ed and monitored on a daily basis.
jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The compliance of cers are in regular contact with the executive directors and compliance 2. Credit risk reports are made to the Board on a regular basis.
The credit risk faced by the Group consists of counterparty credit risk as opposed to issuer risk, and principally arises from the Internal audit following:  were appointed to act as the Groups internal auditor in December 2007, following an extensive review Pre-settlement risk arising from Matched Principal broking: of internal audit arrangements by the Audit Committee.
Settlement risk arising from Matched Principal broking: The objectives of Internal Audit are to assess the effectiveness of the Groups risk management, internal controls and governance Cash deposits held at banks and money market instruments: and process: whether operational and financial controls are appropriate and consistently applied: the effectiveness of internal controls Name Give-Up brokerage receivables.
for the safeguarding of assets: the reliability and integrity of management information: and the adequacy of processes In addition to counterparty risk, the Group is also exposed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
to concentration risk in the level of exposure to counterparties, whether this be exposures arising from Name Give-Up brokerage Internal Audit work during 2009 covered the full audit universe receivables, unsettled Matched Principal transactions or cash on within the Group at different levels of intensity based upon the deposit.
results of a risk assessment exercise carried out and agreed with the Audit Committee in January 2009.
The work included site visits and Pre-settlement risk is the principal class of credit risk affecting the meetings with senior management, both at the Group level and Group.
It arises mainly in the Matched Principal broking business in in each of the geographic regions in which Tullett Prebon operates.
which Group subsidiaries interpose themselves as principal to two The findings of these audits were reported to the Audit Committee or more contracting parties to a Matched Principal transaction and, where appropriate, action taken by management in response and as a result the Group is at risk of loss should one of the parties to them was tracked and reported to the Audit Committee.
The to a transaction default on its obligations.
Audit Committee approved the internal audit plan for 2010 at its December 2009 meeting.
The risk is that the counterparty may default prior to settlement date, in which case the Group would have to replace the defaulted Business initiative management process contract in the market.
This is a contingent risk in that the Group The Business Initiative Management BIM process is a core risk will only suffer loss if the market price of the securities has moved mitigation process used throughout the Group to identify, assess adversely to the trade price over the period between the trade and and manage the potential risks arising in relation to any new final settlement date.
Counterparty exposures are kept under constant review and the A BIM proposal must be submitted for all signi cant business Group will take steps to reduce counterparty risk where market changes, whether this be the introduction of a new product or conditions require.
We pay particular attention to more illiquid business line, or a material modi cation to an existing business line.
markets where the price movement and hence our mark-to-market credit exposure is more volatile, such as trading in GDR, ADR and emerging markets instruments.
Group risk pro le The Groups Risk Assessment Framework categorises the risks Settlement risk is the risk that on settlement date a counterparty facing the Group into eight categories: Market Risk, Credit Risk, defaults on its contractual obligation to make payment for a Operational Risk, Strategic and Business Risk, Governance Risk, securities transaction after the corresponding value has been paid Regulatory, Legal and HR Risk, Reputational Risk and Financial Risk.
Unlike pre-settlement risk the exposure here is to the full principal value of the transaction.
All risk management sections are unaudited except those relating to market risk, credit risk and financial risk, which form part of the In practice the Group is not exposed to this risk as settlement is Groups IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
almost invariably effected on a Delivery versus Payment DvP basis.
Free of payment deliveries where an immediate exposure 1.
Market risk arises due to the Groups settling its side of the transaction whilst Market risk is the vulnerability of the Group to movements in the receipt of the countervalue is at some future date occur very value of financial instruments.
The Group does not take trading infrequently and may only be effected under the application of risk and does not hold proprietary financial positions.
the Group is exposed to market risk only in relation to incidental positions in financial instruments arising as a result of the Groups failure to match investors orders precisely.
Such positions are valued and measured from trade date on a daily mark-to-market basis.
16 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009 Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Cash deposits The principal exposure to counterparty risk, Operational risks are managed through a combination of effective, in terms of cash deposits, arises in the UK where the majority relevant and proportional control processes and experienced of our cash is managed.
Apart from cash held at settlement and managers who are alert to the risks involved in the business clearing counterparties for operational reasons such as Euroclear, they process.
As with credit and market risk the policy of devolved the depositing of our cash in the UK is restricted to four principal responsibility within the Group places the initial emphasis for the clearing banks.
In the US, cash is split between two principal management of operational risks on the senior management of clearing banks.
Restricted and operating cash is also maintained at each entity and business unit.
Finance, Operations, Compliance, clearing and settlement organisations such as the DTCC and Bank Risk Control reporting, Internal Audit, and the administrative of New York.
Apart from a small balance held in local banks, the functions support management through a segregated review majority of the cash in Asia is held with one major clearing bank.
As with trading counterparties, cash deposit counterparty 4.
Strategic and business risk exposures and limits are kept under constant review and steps The Group operates in an environment characterised by intense taken to reduce counterparty risk where market conditions require.
competition and rapid technological change.
Failure to adapt to changing market dynamics and customer requirements and to the Name Give-Up brokerage receivables The majority of transactions way OTC markets and their participants are regulated, constitutes brokered by the Group are done on a Name Give-Up basis, a signi cant long term risk.
where the Group acts as agent in arranging the trade.
Whilst the Group does not suffer any exposure in relation to the underlying The Groups strategies for managing and mitigating these risks instrument brokered given that the Group is not a principal include geographic and product diversi cation, development to the trade, it is exposed to the risk that the client fails to pay of new products, and where appropriate acquisitions.
Regular the brokerage it is charged.
Debtors arising from Name Give-Up management review of results and key performance indicators, brokerage are closely monitored by senior management.
competitor benchmarking and active management of client relationships all act as controls on the Groups strategic and Concentration risk The possibility of concentration risk exists business risk.
in the level of exposure to counterparties.
The Group controls its credit exposure to counterparties and groups of counterparties During 2009 action has been taken to strengthen management through the application of a system of counterparty credit limits teams particularly in North America, to retain existing and hire based on the mark-to-market exposure for Matched Principal new brokers, to protect the enforceability of employment contracts, trades, outstanding brokerage receivables for Name Give-Up trades, and to invest in the development and launch of new electronic and amount on deposit for cash deposit exposure.
Counterparty platforms and supporting infrastructure.
limits are set by the European and North American Credit Committees according to a methodology agreed by the Group 5.
Governance risk Treasury and Risk Committee.
Governance risk is the risk of loss or damage to the business due to a failure of management structures or processes.
Operational risk take the form of misstatement or accounting errors, fraud, a failure Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or to ensure adequate succession to key management positions, or failed internal processes, people activities, systems or external the inappropriate use of authority and in uence.
Operational risk covers a wide and diverse range of risk types, and the overall objective of the Groups approach The risk of accounting error or fraud is mitigated by the strong to operational risk management is not to attempt to avoid control environment which exists within the Group, in particular all potential risks, but proactively to identify and assess risks the involvement of the Audit Committee, the internal audit team and risk situations in order to manage them in an ef cient and the Group Treasury and Risk Committee.
Succession planning and informed manner.
Examples of operational risk include: within the Group is overseen by the Board and the Remuneration Committee.
IT systems failures, breakdown in security or loss of data integrity: 6.
Regulatory, legal and human resource risk This risk concerns the potential loss of value due to regulatory Failure or disruption of a critical business process, through action such as compliance breaches or market abuse: the possible internal or external error or event: costs and penalties associated with litigation: and the possibility of a failure to retain and motivate key members of staff.
The Group Failure or withdrawal of settlement and clearing systems, also faces the risk that changes in regulations or laws could have errors in instructions: a serious adverse impact on the business, including when such changes are directed at other parts of the financial services sector Events preventing access to premises, telecommunications but may also encompass the Group.
failures or loss of power supply which interrupt business activities: and Broker errors.
Tullett Prebon plc 17 Annual Report 2009 Business Review continued The Groups lead regulator is the FSA and individual operations are The Group has addressed this funding risk by arranging overdraft regulated by their local regulatory bodies.
Adherence to regulations facilities to cover any failed to deliver trades, either with the is monitored by the Groups compliance of cers who report regularly relevant settlement agent depository itself or with a clearing bank.
The Groups legal department oversees contracts Under such arrangements, the facility provider will fund the value entered into by Group companies, and manages litigation which of any failed to deliver trades in return for a funding fee charged to arises from time to time.
Salaries, bonuses and other bene ts are the Group.
In order to protect the settlement agents depositories designed to be competitive and the Groups HR function monitors from any adverse mark-to-market movement incurred before staff turnover on an ongoing basis.
delivery of the security is nally effected, certain institutions such as Euroclear require that we hold cash deposits with them and or 7.
Reputational risk provide a parent company guarantee.
Reputational risk is the risk that the Groups ability to do business might be damaged as a result of its reputation being tarnished.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk.
It Clients rely on the Groups integrity and probity.
The Group has maintains signi cant cash balances which are held at maturities of policies and procedures in place to manage this risk to the extent less than three months for liquidity and other operational purposes.
possible, which include conduct of business rules, procedures for To mitigate this the Groups syndicated term facility is rolled for two employee hiring and the taking on of new business.
month periods and in two tranches maturing in alternate months.
The Eurobond debt is not swapped and remains a xed sterling 8.
The nature and scope of the Groups operations mean that it is exposed to a number of financial risks, principally liquidity risk The Groups Treasury and Risk Committee periodically considers including the risk of being required to fund failed settlements, interest the Groups exposure to interest rate volatility.
rate risk, currency risk, taxation risks, and pension obligation risk.
Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to movements in interest rates Liquidity risk The Group seeks to ensure that it has access, even in is set out in Note 26. periods of corporate or market volatility, to an appropriate level of cash, other forms of marketable securities or funding to enable it to Currency risk The Group trades in a number of currencies around finance its ongoing operations, proposed acquisitions and any other the world, but reports its results in sterling.
The Group therefore reasonable unanticipated events on cost effective terms.
Cash and has translation exposure to foreign exchange movements in these equivalent balances are held with the primary objective of capital currencies, principally the US dollar and the Euro, and transaction security and availability, with a secondary objective of generating exposure within individual operations which undertake returns.
Funding requirements and cash and equivalent exposures transactions in one currency and report in another.
are monitored by the Group Risk and Treasury Committee.
Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to movements in foreign currency The Group has completed a major project to mitigate its exposure exchange rates is set out in Note 26. to volatile margin calls in North America.
Whilst not totally eliminating the absolute liquidity risk in this area, the project has Taxation risk is the risk of financial loss or misstatement as a result signi cantly reduced the severity and frequency of such exposure.
of non-compliance with regulations relating to direct, indirect or employee taxation.
The Group employs experienced quali ed staff In the event of a liquidity issue arising, the rm has recourse to in key jurisdictions to manage this risk and in addition uses existing global cash resources after which it could draw-down professional advisers as appropriate.
a standby 50m committed credit line as additional contingency funding.
The rm is rated Investment Grade by both Moodys Pension obligation risk is the risk, in the short and medium term, and Fitch with issuer ratings of Baa3 Stable and BBBStable that the Group is required to fund a fide cit in any of the Group respectively.
Further details of the Groups borrowings and cash are provided A subsidiary of the Group has an obligation to fund two fide ned in Notes 21 and 32. bene t pension schemes.
The associated liquidity risk has been capped by xing the maximum cash contributions that can be Funding of failed settlements risk As a normal part of its made into the schemes each year.
This cap is contained within operations, the Group has an additional liquidity risk through the current funding agreements that have been entered into the risk of being required to fund transactions that fail to settle between Tullett Prebon Group Limited and the trustees of each on the due date.
From a risk perspective, the most problematic of the schemes, in respect of which clearance has been obtained scenario concerns fail to deliver transactions, namely where we from the Pensions Regulator.
have received a security from the selling counterparty and have paid cash in settlement of the same but are unable to effect The contributions are designed to ensure that the fide cit in onward delivery of the security to the buying counterparty.
the schemes, reviewed on an actuarial basis as of 31 December 2010, will be eliminated.
Both schemes will undergo full actuarial Such settlement fails give rise to a funding requirement, namely valuations during 2010.
The latest actuarial valuation update as the cost of funding the security which we have failed to deliver of April 2009 showed that the combined fide cit of the schemes until such time as the delivery leg is nally settled and we have was less than 25m, and this is likely to have reduced signi cantly received the associated cash.
as asset values have increased since then.
18 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009
