Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Principal Risks Review and Uncertainties Managing our risks We place considerable importance on internal controls Centrica, like all businesses, faces a number and have a robust risk management process as of risks and uncertainties that could affect the detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on pages delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
38 to 43, which is designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk in order to support the creation Nick Luff, Group Finance Director of long-term, sustainable returns for shareholders.
Described below are the principal risks and uncertainties the Group can foresee.
It is not an exhaustive list: some future risks may be as yet unknown and other risks, currently regarded as immaterial, could turn out to be material.
External market factors Global economic conditions Description: Over the past 12 months we have experienced A double-dip recession or slow recovery could lead to a further an economic downturn that has been longer and deeper than reduction of income for the Group.
Recently the global economy appears to Mitigation: Although bad debt charges rose year-on-year, be expanding again, pulled up by the strong Asian economies reflecting the weak economic conditions, improved credit and stabilisation and recovery elsewhere.
While the US and the management and cash collection processes have helped UK have emerged from recession, there is still the potential for to mitigate much of this increase.
The pace of the global recovery is slow, Our risk management process has helped identify and manage uncertain and activity remains weak.
the increased financial risks and we have ensured that sufficient Impact: Unlike previous recessions where utilities were less liquidity is available to allow the Group to realise its growth affected than other sectors, this time the industry has recorded ambitions.
a significant reduction in demand across all sectors.
Globally, utilities have been able to continue to access both debt In the UK, North America and Europe we have experienced and equity markets but given global uncertainty and volatility in increased levels of bad debts amongst business and residential financial markets this needs to be carefully monitored.
the Group is currently appropriately funded, the future capital As a result of the recession and financial crisis, the Group has requirements for the industry are large.
faced increased financial risks: ensuring liquidity is paramount to the ongoing viability of the business.
UK demand reduction Description: UK energy consumption fell during the period Impact: Reduced sales of gas and electricity to residential 20052009, driven by improved energy efficiency and changing and business customers could have a significant impact on customer behaviour as a result of greater environmental the Groups revenues and profits over the next decade.
awareness, fallout from past price increases and the general Mitigation: The Group is monitoring closely its forecasts economic downturn.
for gas and electricity demand.
In the UK, gas demand is forecast to continue to decline The growth in demand for energy efficiency is in turn creating over the next decade with electricity demand reducing by demand for such products as microgeneration, insulation and a smaller amount.
We are well placed to grow in these markets The actual outcome for long-term gas demand will ultimately and in 2010 we are taking a number of steps to capitalise on be driven by industry decisions around generation mix and the these new opportunities.
impact of Government climate change initiatives.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 Business Principal Risks and Review Uncertainties continued Regulatory environment Description: Government targets to reduce UK greenhouse Canadian federal efforts now largely depend on progress in the gas emissions are increasingly shaping energy policy, including US.
The federal government has dropped its original national plans to expand renewable generation sixfold.
The UKs energy target in favour of developing something resembling US federal infrastructure will require significant amounts of new investment legislation as and when it emerges.
In Ontario, in particular, the in order to meet these targets while maintaining security of regulatory environment remains uncertain.
supply, with estimates of around 200 billion required by 2025.
Impact: A number of factors could cause uncertainties This has prompted calls by many, including the regulator, for surrounding the Groups future investment decisions and limit more fundamental market reform.
the Groups ability to meet its long-term growth aspirations.
Significant reforms to the planning regime have been introduced, These include: the potential for a Competition Commission nevertheless planning is still likely to have an impact on the inquiry: the delivery of reforms to the planning regime: market deliverability of investment.
conditions that support new nuclear power: and the impact of future OTC derivatives regulation in Europe and the US.
Renewables continue to require a supportive policy and regulatory climate in order to deliver the investment needed.
Mandated social price support for vulnerable customers will The Government is in the process of addressing regulatory and impact on the development of the Groups own social initiatives other barriers to new nuclear power.
There remain other policy and the outcome of debates about future energy efficiency could issues, such as the currently low carbon price following the impact the long-term growth of our residential business, and our recent Copenhagen climate conference, which resulted in ambition to provide home energy solutions to our customers.
an outcome that did not give business the clear framework The outcome from Copenhagen means the case for a unilateral it wanted.
UK mechanism to underpin the carbon price may strengthen in Parliament is considering proposals to introduce mandatory order to meet the UKs own more stretching targets.
The social price support for vulnerable customers to replace the likelihood and shape of any US cap and trade legislation remains successful voluntary approach in place to date and the future primarily dependent on domestic factors.
framework for delivering and financing energy efficiency remains Mitigation: Our activity to manage political and regulatory uncertain.
policy developments is ongoing and we are taking a number It is possible that following a general election there may be a of steps to address these risks.
Competition Commission inquiry or equivalent review into the Internally, we have established a Policy Group to agree Groupenergy sector.
This would follow the recent investigation by the wide positions on each key issue.
regulator and would create significant uncertainty in the Externally, we have been closely engaging with civil servants, investment climate.
politicians and opinion-formers to ensure that the Groups In Europe, the Commission is considering stricter regulation perspectives are reflected in policy debates.
of over-the-counter OTC derivatives, which is also being Media relations and external-facing CR programmes are considered in the US by the Obama Administration.
designed to reinforce our views on policy and to build North American energy markets still have some way to go before knowledge and trust in the business among wider stakeholder there is widespread liberalisation and clear, consistent climate audiences.
Limited action at a federal level In the US and Canada, we continue to engage with regulators, means that the progress has mostly taken place at the state Government ministers and senior officials through targeted and provincial level.
Competitive retail energy environment Description: We operate in highly competitive energy supply Impact: As a result of competitor activities the Group may lose markets in the UK and North America where customers switch market share which could affect profitability and the ability of the suppliers based on price and service levels, as well as competitor Group to meet its growth aspirations.
We also operate in the home services market.
These Uncompetitive pricing may lead to customer losses and have competitive markets have consistently delivered lower prices an adverse impact on profitability.
to consumers than their regulated counterparts.
Mitigation: To retain our competitive position, we aim to be In the UK, competitive pressures are increasing as many of the competitive on price and combine attractive products and key participants, namely energy and other service providers propositions with high quality customer service and, for energy such as insurance companies, have entered the services market supply, buy energy competitively.
and are seeking to strengthen their positions.
In North America We actively monitor customer satisfaction and competitor the economic environment is making trading more difficult, activity, and respond to changing circumstances by developing particularly in the new home construction business.
In addition, new customer offerings, whilst maintaining tight operational new entrants in the waterheater rental business in Ontario are cost control.
creating additional competitive pricing and service pressures.
30 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Exposure to movements in commodity prices Description: A significant proportion of the Groups profitability through to our customers or fail to pass on decreased depends on our ability to manage our exposure to wholesale commodity prices, those customers may switch to our commodity prices for gas, oil, coal, carbon and power.
The price competitors, which could have an adverse effect on our business.
of gas in the UK is particularly important, as we produce The volatility of commodity prices impacts the effectiveness of substantially less gas from our own resources than we need hedging decisions for the downstream customer portfolio and to meet retail demand and demand from our fleet of gas-fired investment decisions in the upstream businesses, potentially power stations.
leading to lower profits and lower than expected returns.
The Group must assess the risk of procuring commodities at Mitigation: We manage these risks by hedging a proportion fixed prices to meet uncertain levels of demand that are subject of the exposure for a number of years ahead, linked to the to seasonal fluctuations.
underlying profiles of our customers energy requirements.
This In addition, upstream acquisitions made in higher commodity is done through purchasing and developing upstream assets price environments may be subject to balance sheet such as gas fields, power stations and wind farms, bilateral impairments during lower commodity price environments.
agreements for gas and power, purchases of commodities on recognised exchanges and the use of financial instruments such Impact: With volatile prices, there is a risk that surplus as oil and gas swaps.
commodity positions cannot be sold to the wholesale markets profitably and that any commodity shortages cannot be covered We regularly review our forecasts of commodity prices and at a cost that can be passed on to customers.
In particular, we customer demand and during 2009 we specifically focused on offer a number of fixed-price products, which are fully hedged improving our internal forecasting processes.
at the start of the contract.
These products are competitive Upstream transactions are carefully evaluated prior to acquisition when prices increase but when prices fall we experience and are expected to meet accepted financial criteria over the life customer losses, and therefore can be exposed to surplus of the project and are approved by the Board.
The purchase of commodity positions.
the stake in British Energy and the acquisition of Venture are Significant longer-term price increases or decreases may require examples of how we may secure a proportion of our customers us to change the price at which we sell to our customers on expected energy requirements.
Where we do pass increased commodity prices New technologies Description: The emergence of new technologies in the form certain of immediately recovering the upfront cost of replacing of smart meters, smart grids and other new services create existing meters.
threats to the Group as well as new opportunities.
Mitigation: We continue actively engaging in the industry The Government has announced that every home will have a discussion on the data model, together with the Energy Retail smart meter by 2020 and that the smart meter roll-out should Association.
We are also developing potential collaboration be supplier-led.
The benefits include energy savings for the customer, time-ofAlthough these new technologies could represent a threat to the use pricing for electricity, and better industry processes.
The current business model, they could also represent a substantial installation project is complex however and the full costs are opportunity from servicing, appliance and home automation uncertain and not yet fully quantified.
sales and customised tariff pricing.
In particular, the introduction of smart meters potentially represents a significant opportunity Impact: Until the data management framework for smart for British Gas.
meters is decided during 2010 there is a risk that individual customer consumption data could be accessible to companies We are well positioned to capitalise on these opportunities other than energy suppliers.
This would constitute a risk to our and are actively building capabilities and businesses to do so.
ambitions in providing energy efficiency advice and other In North America, as we build the integrated business we will services.
look to capitalise on opportunities around new technologies With regard to the introduction of smart meters, we are not yet and energy efficiency.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31 Business Principal Risks and Review Uncertainties continued Business specific factors Health, safety and environment Description: There are significant health, safety and embedded in our operational practices and undertaken by environment HS&E hazards associated with our operations, appropriately qualified trained professionals.
and our vision is to put safety, health and wellbeing at the heart The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Group has the of all that we do to minimise the associated risks.
We are also appropriate culture and arrangements for meeting its HS&E committed to understanding, managing and reducing the responsibilities, and the Chief Executive is accountable to the environmental and ecological impacts of our activities through Board for delivery.
Our risk management and governance innovation, technology and cultural change.
processes meet internationally recognised standards and There are four principal health, safety and environment risks: quarterly HS&E performance reports are submitted to the Board, specifically including process safety.
a major incident in the operation of our onshore and offshore gas production, exploration, gas storage and power generation Regarding British Energy, as a joint venture partner we have assets including our share of British Energy : access to all information produced by EDF in support of board an incident that results in a fatality or major injury to a member governance and oversight for both the existing operations and of the public: new nuclear projects.
The Group actively reviews this information, an intolerable number of employee injuries or an employee much of which pertains to HS&E issues, to ensure we play an fatality: and active role through our representation at board level.
Additionally, a major incident that results in significant environmental damage.
we have established communication links, which allow us to highlight issues and concerns directly with those responsible.
Impact: An incident related to any of the principal risks could However, ultimate responsibility for the safe operation of the result in widespread distress and harm, damage to the businesses remains with EDF.
environment, significant disruption to operations and damage to our reputation.
While we have continued to target HS&E risk reduction in all our operations through local plans, many of which have been Actual incidents, precautionary closures of plant or a suspension externally recognised, during 2009 we launched our new Group of activities on HS&E grounds may lead to loss of production or HS&E strategy, which includes a comprehensive governance service and impact our profits.
framework, a reinforced HS&E policy and management system In turn resultant legal action could have a material financial and a programme to strengthen our HS&E leadership behaviours.
These will be reviewed by independent third-party consultants.
Mitigation: The operations of activities involving such risks The Group has an established, senior, cross-business HS&E are heavily regulated and strict control regimes are in place Committee to help steer this improvement strategy.
Managing HS&E risks is deeply Managing our reputation with key stakeholders Description: As a diverse Group of businesses we have a Mitigation: We have a clearly defined set of business number of different stakeholders including customers, investors, principles, which apply to all employees and business partners.
employees, the media, Government and regulatory bodies.
These business principles listed on page 3 set out our commitment to operate professionally, fairly and with integrity Maintaining a positive reputation for the Company is of vital wherever we work in the world.
A combination of awareness importance to ensure the smooth operation of the existing training and targeted controls including fraud and data business and protect profitability.
protection is in place to encourage and monitor adherence Customers expect high service levels and a positive consumer to our business principles.
experience from Britains leading brands.
As one of these In addition, we carefully monitor customer service throughout leaders, we are expected to and want to exceed the norm our retail operations, and continued focus in this area has in our CR activities: similarly we have a high media profile and resulted in service improvements and fewer customer are major contributors to policy debates in Government.
It is equally important to actively manage the Groups reputation We are constantly developing products and services to meet with our other stakeholders including opinion-formers in the the needs of our customers, as demonstrated by the launch Government, the media and trade union bodies.
of EnergySmart and our Were Listening campaign.
Impact: Consistently delivering high service levels is vital to We actively monitor reputation management on a quarterly building trust and therefore retaining and increasing the basis in the Executive Committee meetings.
We also regularly customer base.
Failure to do so would damage our brand, meet with opinion-formers across the political spectrum and lead to customer losses and impact the Groups revenues.
in the media and with the representatives of our major trade Failure to maintain our reputation with key stakeholders could union bodies.
lead to more direct intervention by Government or the regulator in the Groups business or industrial action by our workforce.
32 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Group pensions deficit Description: The Group maintains a variety of pension In the current business environment with volatile bond and schemes including defined benefit schemes.
The pension fund equity markets there is an increased risk that large deficits may liabilities are partially matched with a portfolio of assets leaving arise on our pension schemes.
potential risk around changes in inflation and interest rates, Actions by the pension regulators or the trustees and or material mortality rates and returns on assets.
revisions to existing pension legislation could require increased Impact: The schemes contain a high proportion of equity contributions by the Group to the pension fund.
assets as part of a strategy to provide a better return in the long Mitigation: The risks associated with the pension schemes term than alternative investments such as bonds.
However, in are regularly reviewed and, in combination with expert external the short term, the difference between the IAS 19 value of advice, action is taken where necessary.
liabilities and the fair value of the assets may vary significantly The formal triennial valuations for the main schemes at 31 March eg due to a change in the discount rate used, potentially 2009 were recently completed.
Additional contributions have resulting in a larger deficit.
been agreed with the trustees including 200 million which was In addition, the triennial actuarial valuations of the schemes paid in 2009.
A similar amount will be paid in 2010 and around may result in higher deficits than have been recognised on the 100 million will be paid in 2011.
Groups Balance Sheet because more prudent assumptions may be used than in IAS 19 which may require the Group to make increased contributions to the pension fund.
Build an integrated North American business Description: The North American business had a difficult Impact: If we do not achieve our strategy to integrate and grow year and was impacted by pervading low wholesale commodity the North American business further this could negatively impact prices and one-off factors, however it remains well placed the Groups growth plans.
for future growth as we look to build a more integrated Mitigation: Direct Energy, now under new management with business model.
Board representation, has completed a comprehensive review We continue to see significant growth potential for our North of the business.
American business, and will consider opportunities upstream The new management team will focus on improving our returns and downstream to build on our integrated energy model.
from the existing business and delivering the strategy to increase Further developing the integrated energy model reduces our integration.
exposure to commodity prices and earnings volatility, and Our objective is for Direct Energy to deliver an increasingly we aim to achieve a leading position in our chosen markets material contribution to Group earnings over the medium term, over time.
diversifying our geographic earnings profile.
Deliver value from our growing upstream investments Description: The acquisition of Venture is fundamental to our We now need to ensure the successful working of the newly ongoing strategy, establishing us as the leading consolidator and integrated business and deliver incremental value from the operator of mature and orphaned gas and oil assets in the UK combined business.
The integration of Venture with our existing Impact: If we fail to deliver the successful working of the newly business now provides us with a sustainable and flexible integrated business, this could lead to us not achieving the portfolio of assets with valuable development opportunities strategic objectives and benefits of the combined business and going forward.
also lead to a failure to deliver an appropriate rate of return on Our UK upstream gas and oil headquarters are now located our investment.
in Aberdeen and the business is structured around five core Mitigation: The initial phase of the integration of Venture has regions in order to maximise our focus on asset and been completed.
infrastructure performance, regional geology and business A new leadership structure has been implemented and the development opportunities.
We are pleased to have retained ongoing performance of the combined business will be regularly the majority of the highly skilled Venture team who will help reviewed by senior management.
deliver the new strategic direction of the business.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33 Business Principal Risks and Review Uncertainties continued IS security and business continuity Description: Effective and secure information systems are Mitigation: There are a number of controls in place to manage essential for the efficient management and accurate billing of this risk including network segregation, monitoring, access our customers, effective power generation and successful restrictions on storage systems, regular third-party security energy trading and hedging activities.
reviews and vulnerability assessments of infrastructure and applications.
In addition, there is a dedicated Group IS risk team The confidentiality, integrity and availability of our information tasked with monitoring and reviewing the adherence across the systems could be affected by factors that include human error, Group to the IS risk policy.
ineffective design or operation of key controls or through malfunction or deliberate attack.
Business continuity plans are in place to help recover from significant outages or interruptions.
To improve efficiency, we Impact: Any compromise of the confidentiality of customer continue to invest in our systems supported by strong project information could impact our reputation with current and management to minimise the associated implementation risk.
potential customers and could result in legal action against the Group.
Outages and interruptions could affect our ability to conduct day-to-day operations and cause us to suffer a financial loss.
Outsourcing and offshoring Description: We have outsourced several activities, including Impact: The failure of our outsourcing partners to deliver business-critical information technology services and back office the appropriate level of service to the Group could have a and processing functions, which support our businesses in the detrimental impact on our costs, our reputation, our levels UK and North America.
Some of the Groups outsourcing of customer service and consequently negatively impact the contracts are in offshore locations in India and South Africa.
In addition, a number of our North Sea assets are reliant on Mitigation: New outsourcing and offshoring initiatives are third-party infrastructure ie pipelines and platforms.
challenged and reviewed by senior management in business performance reviews.
We have robust project governance There is a risk that the Groups outsourcing initiatives do not policies for all new and existing outsourcing and offshoring deliver the projected benefits as a result of: initiatives.
loss of service or inadequate service from the offshore service We have business contingency plans in place in the event provider: of terrorist or social political events in offshore locations.
insufficient skilled resources at the outsourcer to effectively In addition, in light of the global economic downturn we manage the relationship: have performed a review of the financial health of our key inadequate levels of retained knowledge to drive process outsourcing partners.
improvements: or risk to the Groups employees as a result of terrorist, and or In our upstream business, we are undertaking a number of social or political events in offshore locations.
initiatives to mitigate the issues we have experienced with third-party infrastructure providers.
As with any contractual relationship, there are inherent risks to be mitigated, and these are actively managed on a day-to-day basis by business unit management.
