Section 2: Operating review RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS assess and report to the Audit The Group Risk Manager monitors The Group, in common with other Committee on the effectiveness the effectiveness of risk management international businesses, is exposed of the Groups non-financial and and internal controls through site to a number of potential risks not all financial internal control systems: reviews of Group businesses.
His visit of which are within its control which programme is approved annually by may have a material effect on its ensure that an embedded the Audit Committee.
After each site reputation, financial or operational framework for managing risks is visit a report is prepared and presented performance.
It is not possible to identify in place throughout the Group: and to local area Group management, or anticipate every risk that may affect and to the Chairman of the Audit the Group, or the materiality of that risk.
provide an appropriate level Committee.
A copy is also made However, Chloride recognises that the of reporting on the status available to the external auditors.
monitoring, assessment and response of risk management to the to risks can provide resilience, and even operational management and The Group Risk Manager is able to call competitive advantage, to the business.
on additional resources from central Accordingly, it is a matter to which staff and external consultants as considerable attention is paid, particularly The Risk Committee meets twice necessary.
External consultants in such uncertain economic times.
a year and the minutes are circulated also review health and safety and to the Audit Committee Chairman.
environmental practices at selected The Board has overall responsibility for All directors are entitled to receive sites on the basis of a rolling schedule risk management and internal controls the Risk Committee papers, and to agreed with the Group Risk Manager.
and is assisted by the Audit Committee.
Further details of the Groups system FINANCIAL RISKS of internal controls are contained in The nature, likelihood and materiality As an international business, the major the corporate governance report on of the risks affecting each Group financial risks faced by the Group are pages 37 and 38. business are assessed by operational liquidity risk, currency risk, interest rate management on an annual basis.
The Board regularly The Audit Committee has one meeting On the basis of these assessments, reviews these risks and approves a year dedicated to reviewing risk.
the Risk Committee produces a risk policies covering the use of financial In addition, internal control and risk map for the Group as a whole, and the instruments to manage financial risk management actions, together with summary of material risks is reviewed and overall risk limits.
A detailed Risk Committee updates are kept by the Audit Committee and endorsed summary of the Groups financial risks under review at the Audit Committee by the Board.
The risk assessment and how these risks are managed can meetings held to consider the interim process applies both to normal be found in the financial review on and full-year results.
It is assisted by operational activities and to projects pages 21 to 23. the Risk Committee and the Group which are significant to the Group, Risk Manager.
where a risk register is drawn up and FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS monitored by the Group Risk Manager Certain statements in this annual The Risk Committee is chaired by throughout the project.
Although the Finance Director and comprises the Group believes that the the Chief Executive and other As described in the corporate expectations contained in such senior operational and head ofce governance report, there is an statements are reasonable, it can give management, including the Group embedded process for monitoring and no assurance that these expectations Risk Manager.
Its core functions controlling the identied risks through will prove to be correct.
Actual results are to: monthly financial and operational may differ materially from those reporting procedures.
In addition, expressed in or implied by these appropriate levels of cover are forward-looking statements.
maintained under the Group insurance programme in respect of insurable risks.
24 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 OPERATIONAL RISKS There have been no major operational risks identied during the year other than those typical in a competitive environment key areas identied for ongoing management attention, and managements response to them, continue to be: RISK IMPACT MITIGATION Competitive pressures Product and service revenue Decline in earnings growth Continued analysis of, and fail to continue to grow above Decline in margin growth entry into, new long-term market rate, owing to market potential markets trends, third-party activity, loss Continued entry in to new market of competitive advantage, and sectors in existing markets challenging economic conditions Product and service innovation to maintain appeal of UPS solutions offering in market Customer relations management Control of overheads Control of production costs Supply chain Loss of key suppliers Product delivery shortfalls Monitor financial performance Loss of revenue of suppliers Contingency plans for alternative means of supply Control IP to ensure transferability Disruptions to operations Loss of production capability Business interruption Disaster recovery planning IT systems failure Loss of revenue, profit and assets Flexible and global manufacturing Loss of business goodwill infrastructure Flexible and global IT infrastructure Loss of key personnel Loss of experience skills Loss of business and reputation Career management commercial relationships Incentivisation Succession planning throughout the business Customer relationships Loss of customers orders Loss of revenue profit Maintain development and quality owing to factors outside of complete UPS solutions of the Groups control Improve geographic and sector spread of customers Emphasis on service business as driver of long-term relationships Complexity of international operations Economic conditions Currency translation Professional advice Political instability Increased costs Skilled local management profit repatriation and tax issues Reduced revenues profits Treasury policy and planning Currency movements Tax rate increases Internal controls application Acquisitions new markets Identifying opportunities Diminution of growth rate Corporate development capacity Integration of acquired Failure to meet strategic objectives Due diligence businesses Integration planning and resource Start-up operations Standard business model roll-out ANNUAL REPORT 2009 25
