Risk management The board recognises that risk is an inherent the likelihood of it occurring and the strength part of running a business and that whilst it of the controls over the risk.
This approach aims to maximise returns, the associated risks allows the effect of any mitigating procedures must be understood and managed.
Overall to be considered, recognising that risk responsibility for this process rests with the cannot be totally eliminated and that some board whilst executive management is activities incur inherent risk.
responsible for designing, implementing and maintaining the necessary systems of control.
The register is then reviewed and commented upon by the audit committee before being Key to this function is the groups risk register, considered and adopted by the full board.
The which is reviewed formally once a year.
The register was reviewed in February 2010 and register is initially prepared by the executive the principal risks and uncertainties that the board which, having created the list of risks, group faces in 2010, together with the controls collectively assesses the severity of the risk, and mitigating factors, are set out below: Strategic risks That the groups strategy doesnt create the anticipated shareholder value or fails to meet investors expectations.
The groups strategy is inconsistent with The group carries out a five-year strategic the market environment.
review and prepares regular rolling forecasts covering the next two years.
In both exercises, The groups development programme is the board considers the effect on key ratios of not consistent with the economic cycle.
changing the main underlying assumptions and set these so as to best realise its long-term strategic goals.
This flexibility arises from the policy of maintaining income from properties until development starts.
Financial risks That the group becomes unable to meet its financial obligations or finance the business appropriately.
A substantial decline in property values The groups secured borrowings contain or a material loss of rental income could financial covenants based on specific security result in a breach of the groups financial and not corporate ratios such as balance sheet covenants.
This may accelerate the gearing.
Treasury control schedules are repayment of the groups borrowings updated weekly whilst the rolling forecast or result in their cancellation.
enables any potential problems to be identified at an early stage and corrective action to be taken.
The group has a considerable amount of uncharged property that could be used in such circumstances.
The groups cost of borrowing is increased The groups five-year strategic review and due to an inability to raise finance from its rolling forecasts enables any financing preferred sources.
requirement to be identified at an early stage.
This allows sources of finance to be identified and evaluated and, to a degree, the finance to be raised when market conditions are favourable.
Financing costs are higher due to The group uses interest rate derivatives to increases in interest rates.
top up the amount of fixed rate debt to a level commensurate with the perceived risk to the group.
The group incurs tax penalties or loses The groups rolling forecast monitors its REIT status due to failing to comply with compliance over the forecast period which the REIT legislation.
enables any potential non-compliance to be identified and corrective action to be taken at an early stage.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 42 Responsibility Operational risks The group suffers either a loss or adverse consequences due to processes being inadequate or not working correctly.
The implementation of the groups strategy The size of the central London market in is inhibited by an inability to acquire assets which the group operates, means that such at an attractive price.
a situation is unlikely to persist for very long.
During this time, the group is able to develop opportunities from within its existing portfolio.
The groups development projects do not Standardised appraisals including produce the anticipated financial return contingencies are prepared for all investments due to delays in the planning process, and sensitivity analysis is undertaken to increased construction costs or adverse ensure that an adequate return is made in all letting conditions.
circumstances considered likely to occur.
The scale of the groups development programme is managed to reflect anticipated market conditions.
The group suffers a loss of rental income Prospective tenants are considered by the and increased vacant property costs due groups credit committee and security is to tenants vacating or becoming bankrupt.
The groups property managers maintain regular contact with tenants and work closely with any that are facing financial difficulties.
The financial return of the groups Generally, the group selects contractors developments is reduced due to the from a pool that are well known to it, and the insolvency of a contractor or subfinancial information on these companies is contractor.
If the insolvency of a major sub-contractor is seen to present a material risk to the critical path of a project, specific strategies are implemented to mitigate the effect.
The groups reputation is damaged due to The group employs a health and safety a breach of health and safety regulations.
executive who establishes appropriate policies for the groups offices and an external health and safety supervisor is appointed for each development project.
All significant accidents are reported to the board and reports for each scheme are submitted regularly to the board.
The group is unable to successfully The remuneration packages of all employees implement its strategy due to a failure are regularly benchmarked.
Six-monthly to recruit and retain key staff with appraisals identify training requirements appropriate skills.
which are fulfilled over the next year.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 43 Responsibility
