Business AnD finAnCiAl review PrinCiPAl risKs AnD unCertAinties PrOPerty vAluAtiOns tenAnt DefAult Our property portfolio is the largest component of the Groups net asset The trading environment has improved during 2009, and the rate at value.
The value of the portfolio is affected by the conditions prevailing in which retail companies in the UK are going into administration has fallen.
the property investment market and the general economic environment.
However some tenants, principally in the UK retail sector, continue to face Accordingly, the Groups net asset value can change due to external difficult operating conditions and there is a risk that they will be unable factors beyond managements control.
In light of the improved economic to pay their rents.
The large number of tenants and their geographical conditions and government support for the financial sector, investors spread mean the risk of individual tenant default to Hammerson is low.
have recently become more active in the real estate investment market Furthermore, our occupational leases are long-term contracts, thus with the result that property values have started to rise for the first time making the income relatively secure.
The quality of the Groups income in two years.
is discussed on pages 29 and 30 of the Business Review.
Hammerson has a high quality portfolio which is geographically interest rAtes diversified and let to a large number of tenants.
These factors should Interest charged on borrowings is a significant cost for Hammerson and continue to mitigate any negative impact arising from changing conditions we set guidelines for our exposure to fixed and floating interest rates and in the financial and property markets.
The Property Markets and Outlook use interest rate and currency swaps to manage this risk.
At 31 December section of this report provides further discussion of these issues.
2009, 78% of the Groups gross debt was at fixed rates of interest.
Our property portfolio is valued in compliance with international The short-term outlook for interest rates is uncertain, but our hedging standards by external professionally qualified valuers.
The primary programme would partly mitigate the impact of any rise.
source of evidence for valuations should be recent, comparable market transactions.
As the economic environment has improved, the number eXCHAnGe risK of transactions for the types of property owned by Hammerson in the Exchange risk is managed by matching foreign currency assets with UK and France has increased, and this in turn has made property foreign currency debt, using derivatives where appropriate.
As at valuations more reliable.
31 December 2009, 80% of the value of the French property portfolio was hedged.
We estimate that a 1% strengthening of the euro relative liQuiDity risK to sterling would have the effect of increasing shareholders funds by Although conditions in the financial markets have improved significantly around 3 million and increasing net debt by approximately 13 million.
in 2009, companies with short-term refinancing requirements may continue to find it difficult to secure adequate funding at costs comparable with their existing facilities.
Hammerson has just 63 million of debt maturing before 2012, and we have time to plan for an optimal debt maturity and cost profile, with the option of further property sales if considered necessary.
Following the completion of the rights issue in March 2009 and the receipt of the proceeds from our disposal programme, gearing has decreased from 118% at the end of 2008 to 72% at 31 December 2009.
The risk that the Group could breach its borrowing covenants, the most stringent of which is that gearing should not exceed 150%, has therefore receded.
We estimate that, on a pro forma basis, the value of our portfolio would have to fall by 30% to endanger our most rigorous gearing covenant.
DevelOPment AnD lettinG The recent recession has made many potential occupiers cautious about entering into commitments to lease space.
Therefore it has taken longer than originally anticipated to agree new leases at our recently completed developments.
However, the improvements seen in the economy in the last few months have resulted in greater interest in the vacant space at the developments we completed in 2008 and 2009, as discussed in the Business Review on page 29.
We currently have no significant developments underway.
