risK mAnAGement How we manage risk risk management is integral to the achievement of our financial and operating objectives.
Our risk management policies are designed to reduce the chances of financial loss and enhance performance when the right opportunities arise.
we have developed a risk management framework to identify and control risk.
the six principal risk areas in that framework, and the steps we take to mitigate them, are shown in the table below.
we have also included references to the pages in this Annual report where these risks, or the parts of the business affected by them, are discussed further.
Risk Mitigation Commentary Page We commission and evaluate research into Implementation of a Property markets 19 Business strategy strategy inconsistent with the economy and investment and occupational and outlook markets and use this to prepare an annual the market environment.
Property portfolio 24 Business Plan and regular financial forecasts.
Over-concentration and allocation of activities and Hammersons portfolio is geographically Principal risks 21 investment exposure diversified and its allocation is regularly reviewed.
and uncertainties in particular markets.
Breach of borrowing Guidelines for financial ratios are set and Principal risks and 21 Treasury covenants, triggering monitored by the Board.
uncertainties default and or repayment.
Future investment requirements are approved Financial Review 37 Insufficient liquidity to by the Board and sufficient facilities put in place.
progress the development Fixed rate borrowings are used where appropriate Notes 20 and 21 93 to programme.
and foreign currency denominated assets to the accounts 100 Adverse currency or financed by borrowings in the same currency.
Failure to recruit and Recruitment procedures and the Remuneration Report 56 to 63 Business organisation retain key staff with remuneration structure are regularly and human resources Human Resources 38 and 39 appropriate skills reviewed and benchmarked.
Succession plans are in place for Corporate Governance 50 senior positions.
Poor control of the Detailed analysis, including market research, Developments 32 Property development development programme is undertaken prior to the approval of each and failure to address development project.
investment and The Groups overall exposure to development Principal risks and 21 occupational market risks.
is monitored and projects phased.
uncertainties A programme of post completion reviews ensures potential improvements to processes are identified.
Acquisition of properties Acquisitions are thoroughly evaluated, including Investment portfolio 26 to 31 Property investment that fail to meet due diligence reviews.
performance The performance of individual properties is expectations.
Financial loss arises Our occupier base is large and diverse Principal risks 21 Tenant default through tenant default.
and the majority of our tenants are of sound and uncertainties financial standing.
We regularly analyse our retailers performance Income security 29 and 30 and the credit rating of all our key occupiers to and quality identify tenants at risk so that appropriate action can be taken.
We have clear policies and procedures for rent collection and how we deal with occupiers in difficulty.
