| Business overview Principal risks Key changes in risk management in 2009 Risk management in the diagram below and the most significant An additional executive risk committee was Effective management of risk and opportunity risks and uncertainties which could impact the established with part time Non-executive is essential to the delivery of the Groups long term performance of Cobham are shown Director participation to provide further financial and non financial objectives.
The in the table on the opposite page.
They are advice to the committee.
Groups approach to risk management is to not listed in any order of priority.
identify key risks early and remove or minimise A review of the detailed corporate risk the likelihood and effect of them before Shortage of appropriate skills register by functional heads was introduced.
In 2009 Cobham commenced an Employee The application of the Groups Life Value Proposition project with the aim of Cycle Management process was The management of risk is linked into the attracting and further improving the retention further strengthened.
Groups strategy, the environment in which of employees, noting that voluntary employee it operates, the Groups appetite for risk and turnover reduced in the year see Key the delivery of the Groups business objectives.
In the The underlying principles are that through last quarter of 2009 the Group also undertook the Groups Life Cycle Management process an all employee survey, with an excellent the risks are continuously monitored, response rate and significantly more positive associated action plans reviewed, appropriate responses than negative.
Action plans are contingencies are provisioned and this being developed to address key findings and information is reported through established all aspects of the Groups talent management management control procedures.
The process plans are being updated accordingly.
for monitoring and controlling risk is illustrated 28 How we monitor and control risk Board review Reporting Monitoring Risk committee review Reporting Monitoring Group executive review of mitigation plans, performance, risks, impact financial and non financial, emerging themes Reporting Monitoring Functional head review Assurance reviews of mitigation plans, risks and emerging themes Reporting Monitoring Self assessment Corporate Division Strategic Business Unit risk identification, analysis, evaluation and mitigation planning as part of strategy process Operational framework Organisation Delegated authorities Culture, values and appraisal system Training and development Mandated policies and processes Performance measurement www.
com | Business overview Principal risks Risk Description Impact Sensitivity Mitigation Comment Shortage of The Groups ambitious growth Without the appropriate quality and Rigorous talent management plans and reviews.
appropriate skills plans are dependent on our quantity of skills throughout the Provide competitive compensation packages.
ability to attract, retain and organisation it would be increasingly Ensure that work for employees is challenging and rewarding.
difficult to execute the business plans Increase participants on Group wide, coordinated and grow.
Ensure that employee appraisal systems are used effectively throughout the Group.
Fixed price Fixed price design and A failure to anticipate and resolve Rigorous application of the Groups Life Cycle Management contracts development contracts technical problems, estimate and control process to all bids, contracts and development projects inherently carry higher risk than costs and offset inflationary pressures throughout the business.
fixed price production contracts, can result in schedule and cost overruns.
Consistently apply meaningful metrics to support the review including inflation risk.
of contracts across the Group.
Ensure that effective training is provided across all disciplines.
Maintain efficient and effective customer communications.
Change in the Greater than 50% of the Groups The termination of one or more of the Continue to ensure that the Group is capable of supplying the priorities in the revenue is derived from defence contracts for the Groups programmes technologies, products and services that are core to the US US defence and security contracts in by governments, or the failure of the defence market needs.
The level of growth is relevant agencies to obtain expected Invest in the talent and technologies to maintain an effective dependent on a complex mix of funding appropriations for the Groups competitive edge.
strategic defence and security programmes, could have a material Balance the Groups portfolio by increasing the level of business imperatives, economic and adverse effect on the Groups in higher growth, emerging markets such as India, the Middle security factors.
Lower growth in Some 9% of the Groups revenue A softening of the commercial and Continue to ensure that the Group is capable of supplying the commercial is derived from the commercial general aviations markets could have an the technologies, products and services that are core to general aviation aerospace and general aviation impact on the Groups revenue growth.
the commercial and GA market needs.
The level of growth is Invest in the talent and technologies to maintain an effective dependent on a mix of economic competitive edge.
29 and political factors, including Ongoing facility integration to create effective centres the demand for air travel and of excellence.
Rapid removal of costs in businesses impacted by the downturn in the commercial GA markets.
Exchange rates The global nature of the Groups Significant fluctuations in exchange Continue to hedge all material firm transactional exposures business means it is exposed to rates to which the Group is exposed as well as to manage anticipated economic cash flow volatility in a number of foreign could have a material adverse effect exposures over the medium term.
currencies, the most significant on the Groups future results.
Seek to minimise foreign exchange mismatches when being the US dollar and euro.
Consider exchange rates carefully during acquisition and divestment planning.
Fixed price contracts Quadrennial Defense Review report on mission Exchange rates The Group continues to rigorously apply its areas and priorities.
See also Our markets on See Financial review on pages 22 to 27.
Life Cycle Management process to all bids, page 9. contracts and development projects throughout the business, supported by the Lower growth in the commercial general consistent application of meaningful metrics aviation GA markets to support the review of contracts across The record backlog of orders for Boeing and the Group and effective training.
Airbus following a period of unprecedented growth in the past five years has cushioned Change in the priorities in the US the overall impact of the recession but it defence market is anticipated that production rates at both Cobham continues to be well placed to benefit companies will fall during 2010.
Costs have from new platforms and the upgrading of been rapidly removed in the commercial legacy platforms with a range of modernised businesses impacted by the market downturn, electronics and subsystems, given the need coupled with the integration of existing to focus on efficient communications in facilities and the winding down or exiting asymmetric warfare situations.
This conclusion of some low margin revenue activity.
The is supported by the February 2010 US business remains vigilant.
See also Our markets on page 9.
Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009
