30 Business review Our risks and how we manage them We achieved over 500m of property sales in a deteriorating market.
Financial risks Risk description Impact Mitigation Capital structure Pace of valuation decline Unable to counteract the The Rights Issue strengthened the Groups balance sheet and will reduce the continues to exceed the pace impact of falling values on potential impact of prolonged falls in property values and position the Group at which assets can be sold.
to respond quickly to the turning point in the cycle.
Unable to progress investment Rights Issue strengthened the Groups position in refinancing its debt facilities.
Liquidity and gearing kept under constant review.
Wide variety of assets and knowledge of investor appetite ensure best possibility of achieving disposals.
Development commitments matched to sales.
Credit risk Investment counterparty risk Loss of cash and deposits.
Only use independently-rated banks and financial institutions with a minimum Failure of bank and financial rating of A. institution counterparties.
Weekly review of credit ratings of all financial institution counterparties.
Group Treasury ensures that funds deposited with a single financial institution remain within the Groups policy limits.
Li quidity risk Restrictive covenant regime.
Inability to fund operations and As at 31 March 2009, 1.6bn of cash and short-term deposits were held capital expenditure programme.
This balance is available to be injected into the Security Group to maintain its LTV at less than 80% to avoid entering Final Tier 3 with its additional financial and operational restrictions.
No financial covenant default is triggered until the applicable LTV ratio exceeds 100% or the ICR is less than 1.0.
Assets available within the Security Group to sell raise new debt.
Inability to raise sufficient Ongoing monitoring and management of the forecast cash position.
Commitments are not taken on if funding is not available.
Mar ket risk Market risk exposure through Increased borrowing costs.
Group Treasury monitors compliance with the Group hedging policy.
interest rates, currency Specific hedges used in geared joint ventures to fix the interest exposure fluctuations and availability on limited recourse debt.
Forward purchases of foreign currency to fix the Sterling value for any construction works not priced in Sterling.
Tax risk Compliance with the Real Increased tax payable.
Ongoing monitoring and management of the criteria to meet REIT status.
Estate Investment Trust REIT taxation regime.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 Report of the Directors P0180 Financial statements P81130 Investor resource P131144 Business review 31 Read how we have mitigated risk by widening the appeal of One New Change, EC4.
p33 Property investment risks Risk description Impact Mitigation Occupier market conditions Prolonged downturn in tenant Threat of voids in the portfolio.
Committed development exposure limited to remaining space in St Davids 2 demand.
in Cardiff together with One New Change due to complete in 2010 and Dashwood House in London.
Other proposed developments are not committed and will only commence when market conditions are favourable or a pre-let of part is in place.
Void management through temporary lettings and void mitigation strategies.
Large portfolio allows portfolio leasing deals and flexibility to further reduce voids.
Reduced consumer spending Cutbacks in retailer opening Pre-letting of key units before committing to development.
Limited Retail leading to lower retail sales.
development pipeline concentrated primarily in Cardiff: most other schemes completed and substantially let already.
Ongoing sales programme to divest schemes and locations most likely to suffer adverse impact.
Market cycles Property markets are cyclical.
Risks of negative interaction Target ranges for balance sheet gearing.
between falling property values Secure income flows under UK lease structure.
Property risk Asset value concentration.
Poor performance of a single Large multi-asset portfolio.
asset having material impact Largest property Cardinal Place represents only 5.8% of combined portfolio.
Average investment property lot size of 44.6m.
Retail assets combine a range of highly diversified income streams in all major sub-sectors of retail property.
Increased cost exposure on voids.
Void management and empty rates mitigation.
Tenant risk Tenant concentration Impact on revenue if a major Diversified tenant base.
occupier fails or does not Strong established locations and relationships with occupiers.
The Government is our largest single customer, representing 9.5% of gross rents: the next largest represents 4.2%.
Of our income, 72% is derived from tenants who make less than a 1% contribution to rent roll.
Regular credi t review of major tenants.
Health, safety and environmental risk Responsibility for the safety Impact on reputation or Annual cycle of health and safety audits.
of visitors to our properties potential criminal proceedings Quarterly Board reporting.
and our environmental resulting in financial impact.
Dedicated specialist personnel for environment and health and safety.
Established policy and procedures including award-winning health and safety system and ISO 14001 certified environmental system.
Active environmental programme addressing key areas of impact energy and waste.
Read more about our commitments and performance in this area.
p54-63 Land Securities Annual Report 2009 32 Business review Property development risks Risk description Impact Mitigation Site assembly risk Third-party interests in part Unable to progress Policy of buying into all or part of future development sites early of site cannot be acquired.
development either in time, as income-producing investments.
Experience of Compulsory Purchase Order procedures.
Planning risk Development proposals fail Unable to progress Development expertise including: to gain sufficient support and developments in Skilled development management teams.
Long-standing relationships with key development stakeholders.
Construction risk Construction cost overruns Returns are eroded by cost Transfer of risk to specialist contractors.
or poor management of overruns or project completion Skilled in-house project management teams.
New and different procurement Different risk profiles and Forward purchase of high inflation risk items.
methodologies and contract unfamiliar terms and Closer, more open relationship with the supply chain.
Supplier capacity, capability Cost in excess of assumptions and financial stability.
Lack of competition in tendering process.
Letting risk Development remains unlet Impact on income and Experienced and skilled in-house leasing teams.
after completion or fails to valuation.
Risk evaluation model to assess earnings impact of developments meet lettings target.
Tenant requirement for incentive packages, including capital, increasing.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 33 Plan well ahead One New Change, EC4 Cheapside 7.
We are managing The City market is tough, but our mixed-use One New risk in a changing Change development was designed to have a wider appeal.
St Pauls It now offers both office and retail tenants flexible space market with breathtaking views of St Pauls Cathedral, together One New with a unique public realm.
The shops will address an Change under-served market of residents, City workers and tourists St Pauls Cathedral seven days a week.
No wonder theres already strong interest from retailers, and 38% of the office space is pre-let.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 34 Plan well ahead Elements Square, Livingston Variable skins 8.
We are continuing to Elements Square in Livingston is the first covered lead on sustainability retail scheme to receive a BREEAM Excellent rating for environmental performance.
Sustainability informs every corner of the scheme, from the super-lightweight roof designed to achieve the optimum balance between daylight Open Closed and solar heat gains to the high proportion of recycled Solar and temperature As internal temperatures and sustainable timber used in construction.
Rainwater is sensors cause the upper air and solar gains increase, chamber to be pressurised the lower air chamber is collected and reused and solar panels help heat water.
allowing light to penetrate pressurised reducing the We even employ an ecologist to advise on landscaping.
level of light and solar gain penetrating the space.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 35 Plan well ahead Victoria, SW1 9.
We are creating We have been developing in Victoria for 40 years.
excellent opportunities Now, with planning permission for our Victoria Transport Buckingham Palace Interchange plan VTI2 granted in February 2009, we for future development are set to transform the area around the railway station.
Our development will replace outdated pockets of Cardinal buildings with new offices, shops, restaurants, homes VTI2 Place Development and public space.
The scheme builds on the success of our mixed-use Cardinal Place development and provides us with an extraordinary opportunity to rejuvenate one Victoria of central Londons most valuable sites.
