Business review continued Managing risk The Board takes a proactive approach to risk management with the The identification of risks and aim of protecting its employees and customers and safeguarding the opportunities and the development interests of the Company and its shareholders.
of action plans to manage the risks As set out on pages 49 to 50 of the Corporate Governance section, and exploit the opportunities is the Group has policies and procedures in place to ensure that risks are properly evaluated and managed at the appropriate level within an integral part of the business the business.
process, and a core activity The identification of risks and opportunities, the development of throughout the Group.
action plans to manage the risks and exploit the opportunities, and the continual monitoring of progress against agreed Key Performance Indicators KPIs is an integral part of the business process, and a core activity throughout the Group.
Control is exercised at Group and business level through MAP, the Groups Management and Performance framework, monthly monitoring of performance by comparison with budgets and forecasts and through regular business reviews with the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
This is underpinned by a formal major risk assessment process which is an integral part of the annual business cycle.
As part of the process, each of the Groups businesses is required to identify and document major risks and appropriate mitigating activities and controls, and monitor and report to management on the effectiveness of these controls on a biannual basis.
Senior managers are also required to sign biannual confirmations of compliance with key procedures and to report any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures.
The results are reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board.
The Group also has formal procedures in place, with clearly designated levels of authority, for approving acquisitions and other capital investments.
This is supported by a post-investment review process for selected acquisitions and major items of capital expenditure.
The table opposite sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business at the date of this Report and the systems and processes the Group has in place to manage and mitigate these risks.
28 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Risk Mitigation Food safety Compass feeds millions of consumers around the world every day, Health, safety therefore setting the highest standards for food hygiene and safety and environment is paramount.
The Group has appropriate policies, processes and training procedures to ensure full compliance with legal obligations.
Health and safety Health and safety remains our number one operational priority.
All management meetings throughout the Group feature a health and safety update as one of their first agenda items.
Environment Every day, everywhere, we look to make a positive contribution to the health and wellbeing of our customers, the communities we work in and the world we live in.
Our Corporate Responsibility report on pages 34 to 39 describes our approach in more detail.
Client retention We aim to build long-term relationships with our clients based on quality Clients and and value.
Our business model is structured so that we are not reliant consumers on one particular sector, geography or group of clients.
Consolidation of We have developed a range of support services to complement our existing food and support foodservice offer.
These services are underpinned by the Compass Service services Framework, our standard operating platform for support services, which gives us the capability to deliver to the same consistent world-class standard globally.
Bidding risk The Groups operating companies bid selectively for large numbers of contracts each year and a more limited number of concession opportunities.
Tenders are developed in accordance with a thorough process which identifies both the potential risks including social and ethical risks and rewards, and are subject to approval at an appropriate level of the organisation.
Credit risk There is limited concentration of credit risk with regard to trade receivables given the diverse and unrelated nature of the Groups client base.
Service delivery and The Groups operating companies contract with a large number of clients.
compliance with Processes are in place to ensure that the services delivered to clients contract terms and are of an appropriate standard and comply with the appropriate contract conditions terms and conditions.
Changes in consumer We strive to meet consumer demand for quality, choice and value by preferences developing innovative and nutritious food offers which suit the lifestyles, tastes and preferences of our consumers.
People retention The recruitment and retention of skilled employees is a challenge faced People and motivation by the industry at large.
The Group has established training and development programmes, succession planning and performance management programmes which are designed to align rewards with our corporate objectives and to retain and motivate our best people.
Suppliers The Group constantly strives to find the right balance between building Supply chain long-term supply relationships based on the compatibility of values and behaviour with the requirements of the Group as well as quality and price.
The Group seeks to avoid over-reliance on any one supplier.
Traceability To reduce risk we are focusing on traceability, clear specification of our requirements to nominated suppliers and the improvement of purchasing compliance by unit managers.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 29 Business review continued Risk Mitigation Economy Around 50% of our business, the Healthcare, Education and Defence, Economic risk Offshore & Remote site sectors, are less susceptible to economic downturns.
Revenues in the remaining 50%, the Business & Industry and Sports & Leisure sectors, are more susceptible to economic factors and employment levels.
However, with the variable and flexible nature of our cost base, it is generally possible to contain the impact of like for like volume declines.
Food cost inflation As part of our MAP programme we seek to manage food cost inflation through: cost indexation in our contracts, giving us the contractual right to review pricing with our clients: menu management to substitute ingredients in response to any forecast shortages and cost increases: and continuing to drive greater purchasing efficiencies through supplier rationalisation and compliance.
Labour cost inflation Our objective is always to deliver the right level of service in the most efficient way.
As part of our MAP programme we have been deploying tools and processes to optimise labour productivity and exercise better control over other labour costs such as absenteeism, overtime and third party agency spend: and to improve our management of salary and benefit costs and control labour cost inflation.
Political stability Compass is a global company operating in countries and regions with Regulatory, diverse economic and political conditions.
Our operations and earnings political and may be adversely affected by political or economic instability.
However, competitive we remain aware of these risks and look to mitigate them wherever environment possible.
We have also taken the strategic decision to withdraw from a number of countries where we consider the risks outweigh the rewards.
Regulation Changes to laws or regulations could adversely affect our performance.
We engage with governmental and non-governmental organisations directly or through trade associations to ensure that our views are represented.
Competition Compass operates in a competitive marketplace.
The level of concentration and outsource penetration varies by country.
Some markets are relatively concentrated with two or three key players, others are highly fragmented and offer significant opportunities for consolidation and penetration into the self-operated market.
Aggressive pricing from our competitors could cause a reduction in our revenues and margins.
We aim to minimise this by building long-term relationships with our clients based on quality and value.
Acquisition risk Potential acquisitions are identified by the operating companies and are Acquisitions subject to appropriate levels of due diligence and approval by Group and investments management.
Post-acquisition integration and performance is closely managed and subject to regular review.
Investment risk Capital investments are subject to appropriate levels of scrutiny and approval by Group management.
Joint ventures In some countries we operate through joint ventures.
Procedures are in place to ensure that joint venture partners bring skills, experience and resources that complement and add to those provided from within the Group.
30 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Risk Mitigation The Group relies on a variety of IT systems in order to manage and deliver Information services and communicate with its customers, suppliers and employees.
technology and There is minimal inter-country dependency on IT systems and all of the infrastructure Groups major operating companies have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place.
The Groups zero tolerance based Code of Ethics governs all aspects of Fraud and our relationship with our stakeholders.
All alleged breaches of the Code compliance are investigated.
The Groups procedures include regular operating reviews, underpinned by a continual focus on ensuring the effectiveness of internal controls.
Though we do not operate in a litigious industry, we have in place policies Litigation and processes in all of our main operating companies to report, manage and mitigate against third party litigation.
Our brands are amongst the most successful and best established in our Reputation risk industry.
They represent a key element of the Groups overall marketing and positioning.
In the event that our brand or reputation is damaged this could adversely impact the Groups performance.
The Groups zero tolerance based Code of Ethics is designed to safeguard the Companys assets, brands and reputation.
Compass Groups financial risk management strategy is based upon Financial risk sound economic objectives and good corporate practice.
The main financial risks concern the availability of funds to meet our obligations liquidity risk, movements in exchange rates foreign currency risk, movements in interest rates interest rate risk and counterparty credit risk.
Derivative and other financial instruments are used to manage interest rate and foreign currency risks.
Further details of our financial risks and the ways in which we mitigate them are set out on pages 24 to 27.
The Groups defined benefit pension schemes are closed to new entrants Pensions risk other than for transfers under public sector contracts in the UK where the Company is obliged to provide final salary benefits to transferring employees.
Steps have also been taken to reduce the investment risk in these schemes.
Further information is set out in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 98 to 101.
As a Group, we seek to plan and manage our tax affairs efficiently in the Tax risk jurisdictions in which we operate.
In doing so, we aim to act in compliance with the relevant laws and disclosure requirements.
In an increasingly complex international tax environment, a degree of uncertainty is inevitable in estimating our tax liabilities.
We exercise our judgement, and seek appropriate professional advice, in assessing the amounts of tax to be paid and the level of provision required.
The effective rate of tax may be influenced by a number of factors, including changes in laws and accounting standards, which could increase the rate.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 31 Responsibly 32 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Where possible, we source food and ingredients from growers and producers local to our units, purchase from organic producers and participate in fair trade initiatives.
We place great importance on sustainable sourcing and the provenance of the food we use.
In our US business, under our programme, Looking ahead, Compass plans to develop It Takes You Eat Local, sites around the partnerships with 2,013 American family-run USA feature locally grown produce and provide farms by 2013. information about their local farms.
Under In the UK, our commitment is underlined this initiative, buying locally is defined as by our new initiative Truly Local, which sets food grown within a 150 mile radius, helping strict criteria such as buying locally directly to educate consumers about sustainability from growers and producers, often family-run practices and how buying locally affects the businesses with strong links to the local communities in which they live.
economy, within a 50 mile radius of our unit.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 33
