Liquidity risk Interest rate risk The Group finances its borrowings from a number of sources including As detailed above, the Group has effective borrowings in a number banks, the public markets and the private placement markets.
of currencies and its policy is to ensure that, in the short-term, it is not materially exposed to fluctuations in interest rates in its principal The maturity profile of the Groups principal borrowings at 30 September currencies.
The Group implements this policy either by borrowing fixed 2009 shows the average period to maturity is 3.1 years.
rate debt or by using interest rate swaps so that at least 80% of its projected net debt is fixed for one year, reducing to 60% fixed for the Maturity profile of principal borrowings second year and 40% fixed for the third year.
as at 30 September 2009 Other risks and uncertainties Years ending 30 September The Board takes a proactive approach to risk management with the aim of protecting its employees and customers and safeguarding 2010 the interests of the Company and its shareholders.
2011 2012 The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and the 2013 activities the Group undertakes to mitigate these are set out in the section headed Managing Risk on pages 28 to 31.
2014 2015 Shareholder return 2016 The market price of the Groups ordinary shares at the close of the 2017 financial year was 382.30 pence per share 2008: 344.00 pence m0100 200 300 400 500 600 per share.
bonds private placement US$ private placement bank Going concern Borrowings are stated at their nominal value except for the bond redeemable in December 2014 which is recorded at its fair value to the Group on acquisition.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in this The Groups undrawn committed bank facilities at 30 September 2009 Business Review, as is the financial position of the Group, its cash were 756 million 2008: 689 million.
flows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities.
In addition, note 20 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its Financial instruments The Group continues to manage its foreign currency and interest rate financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
exposure in accordance with the policies set out below.
The Groups financial instruments comprise cash, borrowings, receivables and The Group has considerable financial resources together with payables that are used to finance the Groups operations.
The Group also uses derivatives, principally interest rate, currency swaps and longer-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, forward currency contracts, to manage interest rate and currency risks arising from the Groups operations.
The Group does not trade in the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Groups treasury policies are designed to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates and exchange After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation rates and to manage the Groups financial risks.
The Board approves any changes to the policies.
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Foreign currency risk The Groups policy is to match, as far as possible, its principal Andrew Martin projected cash flows by currency to actual or effective borrowings in Group Finance Director the same currency.
As currency cash flows are generated, they are 25 November 2009 used to service and repay debt in the same currency.
To implement this policy, forward currency contracts or currency swaps are taken out which, when applied to the actual currency liabilities, convert these to the required currency.
A reconciliation of the 30 September 2009 actual currency liabilities to the effective currency borrowed is set out in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
The borrowings in each currency give rise to foreign exchange differences on translation into Sterling.
Where the borrowings are either less than, or equate to, the net investment in overseas operations, these exchange rate movements are treated as movements on reserves and recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense rather than in the income statement.
Non-Sterling earnings streams are translated at the average rate of exchange for the year.
This results in differences in the Sterling value of currency earnings from year to year.
The table in note 36 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the exchange rates used to translate the income statements, balance sheets and cash flows of non-Sterling denominated entities.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 27
