18 Principal risks and uncertainties As with many global companies, Aegis faces many different types Client relationships of risks, including market and strategy, financial, operational and Although the winning and retaining of clients is at the core of our HR.
2009 has also seen an increased focus on cash and business, we are conscious that in the volatile economic climate counterparty risks as a result of the shift in the global economy we have endured in 2009 that is continuing into 2010, there is we have all experienced.
a risk that our clients investment in advertising and research will decrease, which would have an impact on our revenues.
We continually review our key risks and strive to improve our internal control framework to help mitigate them, where possible.
While our diversi ed range of services help to mitigate this risk, Listed below are what we believe to be the principal risk factors we also make sure that we have dedicated client relationship and uncertainties that we have faced during 2009 and are still teams in place.
In 2009 we integrated our digital and traditional likely to face well into 2010 and our strategies for managing them.
services in a number of markets and in global client services, to give clients one point of contact to deliver to all their needs Due to the economic climate, a number of the risks outlined below across our entire range of communications services.
We also have remained subject to a heightened level of monitoring, and increased our activity in emerging markets, where advertising will continue to be so.
The level of communication of status of the spend was continuing to grow, in contrast with developed risks has also increased and improved reporting has been put in markets, and focused on more resilient fee-based revenues.
As part of its global structure, Synovate has a Global Client Relationships team in place that enables us to form stronger ties Counterparty relationships with existing clients and develop successful new relationships In the past year, counterparty risk remains a signi cant focus of with key global clients.
Synovate also has a Local Business attention for many organisations, including our own.
We have Development structure in place to provide strategic support maintained our efforts to identify and monitor material counterparty for developing relationships with local clients as well as with risk in relation to our clients, af liates, banks, media owners and key regional and global clients.
It also closely manages client other suppliers.
relationships and has developed an in-house tool to enable the global sharing of client work and client preferences.
These risks include, but are not limited to, loss of income from clients in financial distress and potential media buying liabilities We have worked with some of our larger clients over a number arising in markets where we act as principal.
In 2009 we have of years, some in excess of 20 years, and have built up a strong also continued to face the risk of credit insurers withdrawing sense of partnership.
We have also reduced our overheads in previously available cover and the continued viability risk of our 2009 to retain as much exibility as possible in our cost base, domestic and overseas banking partners.
which has enabled us to remain competitive on pricing.
It is our policy to undertake credit enquiries on new clients and We have a broad portfolio of some of the worlds most prestigious for written contracts to be in place before starting any signi cant multinational and national clients across 80 countries worldwide.
To minimise the impact of the overall risk of default, No single client exceeds 3% of revenues.
our strategies can include requesting pre-payment, imposing credit limits and taking out credit insurance, broadening cover in markets Acquisitions and successful integration where it remains available.
We have also closely monitored our exposure to relationships with our banking partners, ensuring that As well as client service, new products and services are a key deposits held with any one banking group do not exceed 30m.
driver of our business performance.
We accomplish this in part by investing in strong talent and by acquiring carefully selected Liquidity and working capital acquisitions that will broaden our offerings and enable us to stay ahead of the competition and retain clients.
Our funding arrangements and cash management have continued to be a priority for us in 2009 and will remain so in 2010 to In 2009, the number of acquisitions completed was signi cantly enable the Group to meet our liabilities.
Our media buying lower than in previous years, re ecting the uncertainty and activities, in particular, require robust cash management processes.
volatility of the market as a whole.
However, acquisitions and joint To help manage our cash, we receive daily cash reporting from ventures remain a key feature of Aegis long-term strategy.
Our larger businesses take part in cash pooling a risk that our investment in an acquisition is based on incorrect arrangements with our relationship banks, with which we also assumptions and does not have the long-term future on which have our debt facilities.
Business units also deposit surplus funds we based our investment case, resulting in overpayment.
There is with Group Treasury to assist with managing interest payments also a risk that our integration plans for them are not successful, and liquidity.
particularly if the acquired company operates a business model that we not are already familiar with.
Our cash pooling arrangements were extended during the year and will be further extended in 2010.
All of our acquisitions require approval and independent due diligence.
We measure the price paid by reference to an internal During 2009 we concentrated on improving reporting from our hurdle rate of return which exceeds our internal cost of capital.
business units to ensure that executive management has accurate Acquisition sponsors from within our existing businesses are and timely information to actively monitor liquidity and covenant assigned to each new acquisition and robust post-integration headroom.
We actively manage our headroom to accommodate plans are put in place for all acquisitions.
both general and speci c contingencies.
Management reporting, liquidity and covenant monitoring will continue to be a key focus in 2010.
Our principal borrowing arrangement, a five-year revolving credit facility of 450m with a syndicate of 11 banks will expire in June 2011.
We have an active programme of regular communication with our relationship banks and bondholders, who are longstanding and supportive, and continue to have a good understanding of our business performance and prospects.
Furthermore, in June and July 2009, we increased our central facilities by 85m and in December 2009, we raised US$225m by issuing eight and ten-year private placement notes, further extending the Groups debt maturity pro le.
19 Competition and keeping ahead of the game We work in a competitive environment and current technology potentially allows our current and prospective clients to be reached by suppliers from anywhere in the world.
For some services, aggressive pricing from competitors in countries where costs are lower could cause a reduction in our own revenue and margins.
To minimise this risk, our aim is to build long-term relationships with our clients and to remain competitive in staying ahead of the game in our offerings and reducing our own costs.
We also aim to ensure that we are the supplier of choice by maintaining high standards, developing tools that add value to our clients marketing and business activity and delivering work to our clients on time.
Many of our Synovate businesses follow the ISO 20252 code of conduct for market research and we have both Synovate and Aegis Media businesses that are ISO 9001 accredited, with quality management systems in place.
Parts of the industry we operate in have relatively low barriers to entry, increasing the risk of new competitors striving to take a part of our market share.
We have already seen some of the search engines offer online advertising directly to our potential clients.
We actively monitor our competitors activity and market practice to enable us to be aware of changes before they happen on a large scale.
Our range of other digital services also help manage this risk.
Security of data We retain con dential information in relation to our clients new product pipelines and advertising strategies.
We also host client databases and other applications on our own servers.
Unauthorised access to, or inappropriate use of, any of this information could have a detrimental impact on our reputation and adversely affect our businesses.
External access to such information is protected by our IT security framework whose strength we continually seek to improve and monitor by performing IT vulnerability testing, as well as IT security audits.
These audits also review internal access rights to client data.
We also take precautions to protect our clients data by using con dentiality clauses in our employees contracts and have blog guidelines in place that prohibit the posting of con dential information.
Talent management As a services business, our people are a key asset.
We are proud of our teams, but recognise the risk that we could lose some of our talent, either to competitors or to set up their own competitive business.
Talent management is one of our key priorities and something we take very seriously.
We aim to be able to offer market competitive incentive plans to attract and retain quality staff.
We also aim to promote within so that our staff can develop an enduring career with us.
And we listen to our employees via our Employee Opinion Surveys, and produce follow-up plans based on the results.
Our people are important in our client relations and the wealth of knowledge they hold.
Their departure could have an impact on client retention, key decision making and successfully leading our business forward.
All of our businesses, including our global teams, are required to undertake succession planning and we ensure that no relationship with a major client is restricted to one individual.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Aegis Group plc Business review 95 4094 2239 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Principal risks and uncertainties
