Directors report principal risks anD uncertainties principal risks anD uncertainties Effective risk management is integral to delivering SEGROs strategic priorities and the process for identifying, assessing and reviewing risks faced by the Group is described in the Corporate Governance section.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are described below.
1. strategic risks impact: An ineffective or poorly executed strategy may damage shareholder value or fail to meet shareholder expectations.
The principal risks to our strategy are: risks Mitigating factors and additional commentary Further information Our ability to anticipate and take The Board monitors the external financial environment closely and establishes a p8 advantage of changes in the number of strategic priorities in order to respond to anticipated changes in the Chief Executives economic environment.
During 2009, the slowdown in the global economy and rapid deterioration in international financial and property markets had an Review page 8 adverse impact on the business.
Our ability to accurately evaluate Although there are some signs that the economic recession is easing, these risks and drive value from real estate are likely to remain for the foreseeable future.
investment opportunities in existing and new territories.
Our ability to recycle The Capital Approvals Committee oversees all significant acquisitions and invest divest assets on disposals.
Investment decisions are based on experience and analysis, with acceptable terms in a reference to data from a wide range of external and internal sources.
Our ability to innovate and adapt The Group maintains regular dialogue with customers to understand their p59 to changing customer demands requirements and adapts the business to accommodate emerging issues.
Sustainability for flexible business space.
Report, Customer satisfaction page 59 34 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 2.
Financial risks impact: Financial risks threaten the Groups capacity to meet its financial objectives and potentially its ability to operate as a going concern.
The principal financial risks are: risks Mitigating factors and additional commentary Further information A material fall in the Groups The Group has a flexible funding strategy and manages liquidity in accordance p31 property asset values or rental with Board approved Treasury Policies which are designed to ensure that the Group Treasury income could lead to a breach Group has adequate funds for its ongoing needs.
of financial covenants within its Policies are outlined The Board monitors financial covenant ratios closely and completes scenario in the Financial credit facilities, which in turn analysis to inform its financial planning.
In early 2009, when property values could lead to credit facilities Review on page 31 were falling rapidly, the risk of covenant breach increased.
The Group took a being cancelled.
number of mitigating steps to provide additional liquidity including a reduction in planned capital expenditure, increasing property disposals, renegotiating financial covenants and refinancing.
Deterioration in the Companys The Group monitors its key financial ratios and seeks to maintain a strong p33 credit profile, a decline in debt investment grade credit rating.
The Group also monitors changes in credit Interest rate market conditions or a general market conditions and to the broader financial environment and seeks to exposure page 33 rise in interest rates could impact optimise its use of different sources of debt capital.
Interest rate sensitivity is the cost and availability of mitigated by using fixed rate debt instruments.
Foreign exchange rate changes The majority of foreign currency assets are matched by borrowings denominated p33 could reduce the sterling value in the same currencies.
This provides a natural hedge against the value of the Detail of the Groups of Continental European assets Groups overseas assets and earnings.
Significant exchange rate changes can foreign exchange and earnings.
also impact the Groups gearing ratio.
risk management page 33 Potential tax penalties or loss of Internal monitoring and procedures track compliance with the appropriate tax REIT status.
The Directors believe the Group to be in compliance with all REIT requirements for 2009 and expect to remain so in 2010. www.
com 35 Directors report: BUSINESS REVIEW Directors report principal risks anD uncertainties CONTINUED 3. real estate anD DevelopMent risks impact: Real estate and development risks may impact income and the value of the Groups property assets.
The principal real estate and development risks are: risks Mitigating factors and additional commentary Further information A potential loss of income SEGRO has over 1,900 customers in a wide range of business sectors and p12 and increased vacancy due to geographic territories and there is limited exposure to any single customer.
Vacancy levels customer default, falling demand The Group stays close to its customers, monitoring the credit worthiness of the or oversupply.
pages 12, 42, 51 customer base and working closely with individual customers facing financial difficulty.
Although we monitor competitor activity when making investments and commencing new developments, rental levels have suffered recently due to falling demand and oversupply.
We have a vigorous and pragmatic approach to leasing and we aim to provide a high level of customer service so as to minimise the likelihood of customers leaving the Groups properties at the end of a lease or at the point of a break option.
The vacancy rate on assets acquired from Brixton was running at 22.1 per cent as at December 2009 and the Group is targeting a vacancy rate of 15 per cent or lower, in the Brixton portfolio, within three years of the acquisition.
We expect that this change will be achieved: however occupier demand depends on the wider economic environment and remains an inherent risk to this target.
Changes in legislation or There is an increased risk of property obsolescence if asset management p17 customer requirements which plans fail to address changes in customer or regulatory requirements.
Asset Our Business Model render some of the Groups management plans are in place for all estates which are intended to identify the page 17 properties obsolete.
optimum point at which to develop, refurbish, redevelop or sell each asset.
Failing to acquire or dispose Local property teams in each market are well placed to identify suitable p14 of assets at attractive prices.
Despite challenging market conditions, in 2009 the Group was successful in both making acquisitions and disposals.
Acquisition ofBrixton pages 14, 43, 44, 51, 52 A decline in the value of In late 2009 property investment market conditions began to improve p13 property assets due to but the recovery is in its early stages and there is still a risk of property market conditions.
Outlook pages 13, 45, 54 Development projects fail to The Group adapts the pace of speculative development to current and p12 deliver the expected returns.
anticipated market conditions so as to reduce the risk of unlet developments.
Capital recycling This may be due to increased Sensitivity analysis is carried out on all potential investments to ensure that target project costs, delays, changes in returns can be achieved.
No speculative developments were initiated in 2009. pages 12, 43, 52 customer demand, or a fall in property market values.
Holding excess or insufficient The Executive Committee regularly reviews the Groups land holdings with the development land due to aim to balance the requirement for development land with the cost of holding unexpected changes in a nonproductive asset.
36 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 4. operational risks impact: The Groups ability to maintain its reputation, revenue and value could be damaged by operational risks including: risks Mitigating factors and additional commentary Further information Health and safety incidents.
Employees throughout the Group manage a wide range of operational risks p58 on a daily basis.
Several of the more significant operational risks are managed by specifically designated committees with oversight by the Board.
Safety page 58 The Health and Safety Committee oversees the implementation of a comprehensive, Group wide health and safety programme.
Environmental damage or failure The Group Sustainability Committee continues to set targets, monitors p55 to meet our sustainability targets.
performance and drives investment in sustainable developments.
Sustainability page 55 Business or IT system disruption.
The Information Systems Committee oversees changes to business systems and IT disaster recovery planning.
Failing to attract, retain and The Remuneration Committee and Executive Committee regularly reviews p59 motivate key staff employees.
remuneration against external market indices.
Employees have personal development plans and ongoing training.
Sustainability page 59 A change or breach of The business is actively managed to maintain compliance with legislation and regulatory requirements.
to try and take advantage of changes to regulations.
A key supplier or business The Group works with suppliers and partners in many aspects of our business.
partner is unable or unwilling These range from agreements to build and service the property portfolio to support the Group.
through to agreements with joint venture partners, and banks, and legal advisors.
The risk presented by our suppliers and partners varies significantly and while many are important to efficient operations, few are considered critical to the business.
The risk presented by suppliers and partners is considered when contracts are established or renewed and as part of the Group wide risk management process.
In setting out the Groups principal risks and uncertainties and commentary on possible future developments, above, the statements should not be considered indications of likelihood or certainty.
The statements are based on the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Directors report and what are believed to be reasonable judgements.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these various forwardlooking statements.
com 37 Directors report: BUSINESS REVIEW
