DIRECTORS REPORT RISK FACTORS Risk factors This section describes the principal known risks suppliers, including potentially as a result of and uncertainties that could have a material reorganisations, mergers, acquisitions or adverse effect on our business, financial disposals affecting our suppliers: condition, prospects, liquidity or results of operations.
The factors discussed below should the risk that our key suppliers experience not be regarded as a complete and financial troubles or become insolvent: comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties that we face.
Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not aware or quality problems in our suppliers which we currently believe are immaterial may manufacturing sites, resulting in lower yields, also adversely affect our business, financial product failures and product returns: condition, prospects, liquidity or results of operations.
For information on our risk inadequate manufacturing capacity, if our key management policies and procedures, see suppliers commit their manufacturing resources Corporate Governance Internal control to others, experience plant shut-downs or Managing Risks.
closures, or are unable or unwilling to expand capacity or upgrade manufacturing capabilities Risks related to the company to meet market demand: and Our fabless business model, which relies on third party foundries and subcontractors for the limited control over delivery schedules, quality manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated assurance and control and production costs.
circuit products, exposes us to risks.
We do not own or operate a fabrication facility.
We use third party foundries and subcontractors to Because we have no long term supply contracts, our manufacture, assemble and test all of our products.
suppliers are generally not obligated to perform We are therefore reliant on these third parties to services or supply products to us for any specific provide the required capacity to manufacture, period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific assemble and test all of our products and to provide price, except as may be provided in a particular high quality products on time.
We rely in particular on purchase order.
In the event we cannot source Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and products we need from one of our third party Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, both of suppliers, due for example to a business interruption Taiwan, which undertake a significant proportion of event, we may be unable quickly to source our the total subcontracted work on our behalf.
Any of these developments would adversely affect our ability to deliver products, undermine our perceived reliability, Because we are wholly reliant on these third parties, and harm our financial condition and results of and in particular on TSMC and ASE, we are subject to operations.
risks, including: The average selling prices of our products are likely to interruptions in manufacturing or testing at decrease rapidly.
supplier sites, resulting for example from The average selling prices of our products have earthquake, pandemic, natural disaster or historically declined significantly over their life, and this geopolitical instability, shortage of materials or is likely to continue.
We regularly reduce the average failures in their own suppliers: selling prices of our products in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product disruption in supply, changes in working introductions by us or our competitors and other practices affecting product qualification or factors.
In 2009, we experienced significant product quality, changes in management downward pressure on prices for a number of mature personnel affecting working relationships, products, and we expect to have to reduce prices on availability of manufacturing capacity or adverse all of our products as they mature.
The global changes to pricing, that may occur within our recession has caused a significant downturn in the CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 45 DIRECTORS REPORT RISK FACTORS continued semiconductor industry, resulting in our competitors re-design of some products as well as standard cells becoming more aggressive in their pricing practices, and other integrated circuit designs that may be used behaviour which we expect to continue in the in multiple products.
This may result in reduced foreseeable future.
Our financial results could be manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and materially adversely affected if we fail to offset reduced increased expenses, all of which could materially prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our adversely impact our results of operations.
costs, or successfully introducing new products at higher prices.
Despite the measures taken in 2008 We may fail to develop new products and revenue and 2009 to reduce our costs as part of restructuring sources or fail to secure new orders with our new measures, we still saw a decline in our operating profit technologies.
Our future success is dependent upon our ability to develop new semiconductor solutions for existing and new markets, introduce those products in a costThe length of our product design cycle exposes us to effective and timely manner, and convince leading risks.
equipment manufacturers to select those products for The design and sales cycle for our integrated circuits design into their own new products.
Our success also can take up to 36 months, and in exceptional cases depends on the development of these markets and even longer, and achieving volume production of adoption of the technologies by our customers.
We products using our integrated circuits can take an cannot predict the adoption of these technologies or additional six months or more.
This lengthy design the growth rate, if any.
If we are not able to develop cycle makes it difficult to forecast product demand and introduce new products successfully and in a and the timing of orders, and exposes us to the risk cost effective and timely manner, our business, that orders will not ultimately materialize in prospects, financial condition and results of accordance with our expectations.
Even if we have a operations will be materially adversely affected.
design win, it may never result in volume shipments.
In addition, the delays inherent in lengthy design We may fail on an accurate and timely basis to cycles increase the risk that our customers may seek anticipate technological and market trends.
to cancel or modify orders.
We are subject to the risk that we may incorrectly assess trends in technological evolution, industry We may suffer delays or experience problems in the standards and or market requirements.
This could introduction of new products.
cause us to invest our R&D monies in the wrong Our products are complex and may contain areas, develop products that fail to meet our undetected hardware and software errors or failures customers needs, or fail to pursue product when first introduced or as new versions are tested.
development opportunities that our competitors seize.
The resolution of these errors could cause us to invest Technological and market trends are difficult to significant capital and other resources and divert predict.
If we are unable to predict market technical staff from other development efforts.
If the requirements, end customer demand for product introduction of products is delayed, our ability to features and evolving industry standards, our compete and maintain market share may be materially prospects and results of operations could be adversely affected.
If we deliver products with errors, materially adversely affected.
defects or bugs, or that are susceptible to connectivity viruses, our credibility and the market acceptance and The integration of multiple wireless technologies sales of our products could be materially adversely coexisting with one another on a single chip may take affected.
longer than expected and customer demand for these combination chips may be slow to develop or may not We are subject to risks associated with the transition develop at all.
to smaller geometry process technologies.
The integration of multiple technologies on a single To remain competitive, we expect to continue to chip which we are developing is a complex process transition our semiconductor products to increasingly which may take longer to achieve than foreseen and smaller line width geometries.
This transition requires may not achieve the expected level of performance.
It modifications to the manufacturing processes and the is also possible that the demand from customers for CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 46 wireless connectivity solutions incorporating such product returns or become unable or fail to meet its multiple technologies in a single die is slower to payment obligations to us, our revenue could decline develop than anticipated or fails to develop at all.
This materially and our operating results could be materially could have a material adverse effect on our business adversely affected.
If any key customer were to merge and financial condition.
or be acquired, this could jeopardise our customersupplier relationship, particularly if it merges with or is acquired by one of our competitors.
If any of our key Errors or defects in our products could result in claims customers have financial or other difficulties such as from customers.
an interruption to their own operations that affects Integrated circuits are highly complex products, and their ability to maintain their business for example a the integrated circuits that we supply to our sudden disruption caused by fire, flood, earthquake or customers are required to operate to very precise other event, this could result in a decline in its orders specifications.
We may not detect errors in the to us and thus adversely affect our business and research and development of a product or in its financial performance.
manufacture before it is supplied to customers or installed in the customers own finished devices.
Any We depend on a sole supplier for some critical such errors could result in the customers devices components.
being faulty, which would result in returns from We purchase critical components from a single consumers.
If the devices failure were attributable to supplier for certain products.
The loss of such us, we may face claims for losses or damages, costs supplier, disruption of the supply chain, or delays or for rectifying the defects or replacing the product, and changes in the design cycle time could result in delays loss of revenue if customers cancel orders.
In some in the manufacture and shipment of products, cases we have agreements with customers that additional expense associated with obtaining a new provide warranty protection or indemnities.
Some of supplier, impaired margins, reduced production these agreements have no limitations on liability, and volumes, strained customer relations and loss of where there are limitations they may not be business or could otherwise materially adversely affect enforceable.
Our insurance coverage against losses our business and results of operations.
that might arise as a result of some product defects may not be sufficient to cover claims that are asserted We rely on Information Technology and automated against us, and may not continue to be available on systems to conduct our business reasonable terms in the future.
Product defects could We rely on Information Technology or IT and also have longer-term harmful effects on our automated systems to support our operations reputation or our relationships with our customers.
A failure or interruption to these systems Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse could materially and adversely affect our business and impact on our business, financial condition and results operations and as a result our financial performance.
of operations, which in turn could impact our share Our IT systems are a key part of our day to day price.
business, the loss or disruption of which could affect many aspects of our business, from the development We rely on a few large customers for a significant of products, to the ordering and delivery of products, portion of our revenue.
to the accurate recording of financial information.
The We work with a broad range of customers across our loss of IT systems could affect our development work, product portfolio but a few large customers represent for example by delaying a project, causing errors to a material portion of our total revenue.
Our largest occur in the software we develop for our products, or customer accounted for approximately 11% of our net could mean that we are unable to launch new revenue in 2009 and 19% in 2008.
Our top five products on time.
In addition, loss of our systems customers accounted for 43% of our net revenue in could disrupt or cause delays in recording and 2009 and 50% in 2008.
If we fail to maintain a good satisfying customer orders, or result in errors in relationship with our key customers, fail to meet the ordering of products from our suppliers.
We could customers product needs on a timely basis, lose also lose the means to make decisions on the design wins for our products with our key customers, conduct of our business on a timely basis which could or if any key customer were to reduce or change its affect business or investment decisions.
If our IT orders to us, seek alternate suppliers, increase its systems fail to evolve in conjunction with the needs of CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 47 DIRECTORS REPORT RISK FACTORS continued our business, for example because of lack of further intellectual property claims by third parties investment or failure to predict future business needs, alleging infringements of their patents or other our ability to develop new products, maintain intellectual property rights.
Companies in the adequate operating system or grow our business semiconductor industry often aggressively protect and could be adversely affected.
Any of these events pursue their intellectual property rights.
Other parties, could result in loss of business, additional costs, or including companies that assemble a portfolio of inaccurate recording of key business and financial patents and use it to derive substantial licensing information, which could materially adversely affect revenues, may assert intellectual property infringement our business and results of operations.
Intellectual property claims could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require the re-design of our products or International economic, political and other risks may require us to seek licenses from third parties, and harm our results of operations.
seriously harm both our reputation and operating We derive nearly all of our revenue from sales outside results.
The defence of such claims and any adverse of the U. K. Because we conduct business settlement could result in significant costs and divert internationally, we are subject to economic, political the attention of our management or other key and other risks in each of the countries in which we employees.
As we diversify into different wireless operate, and our customers are subject to these risks technologies, we may become more susceptible to in the countries in which they operate.
Such risks these types of infringement claims.
Any of the include ensuring compliance with multiple sets of laws foregoing could have a material adverse impact on and regulations, which can change often and may be our business, operating expenses, financial condition in conflict, relating to the import and export of our and and results of operations.
our customers products, employment, taxes, and other laws and regulations that apply in our industry: complying with local business practices and SiRF became a member of the CSR Group and a managing cultural differences: working with local subsidiary of CSR plc on 26 June 2009.
The outcome infrastructure and transportation networks: and of any litigation is uncertain and either favourable or designing products to comply with local regulatory unfavourable outcomes could have a material impact.
If we or our customers fail, or are If infringement claims are brought against the CSR unable, to manage these risks in the various markets Group, these assertions could distract CSRs in which we operate, our results of operations may be management and necessitate the expenditure by the materially adversely affected.
Group of potentially significant funds and resources to defend or settle such claims.
No assurance can be made that third parties, including Broadcom, will not We may in the future require debt or equity financing, seek to commence additional litigation against the which may not be available on reasonable terms or at CSR Group including requesting formal enforcement all.
action against SiRF and or the CSR Group, or that the We may, in the future, need to raise additional funds pending and or additional litigation will not have a to grow our business.
While conditions in the debt material adverse effect on the CSR Groups business.
and equity capital markets have improved during 2009, we may be unable to raise additional funds, on reasonable terms, through public or private securities The CSR Group cannot be certain that it will have the issuances, bank borrowing or other means.
Any future financial resources to defend itself against any patent share issuances may be dilutive to shareholders, and or other intellectual property litigation.
If the CSR debt financing, if available, may subject us to Group is unsuccessful in any challenge to its rights to restrictive covenants.
Our failure to raise capital, if market and sell its products, the CSR Group may, needed, on reasonable terms could have a material among other things, be required to: adverse effect on our financial condition.
pay actual damages, royalties, lost profits and We may be subject to claims that we infringe third or increased damages and the third partys party intellectual property rights.
attorneys fees, which may be substantial: We have in the past been, and currently are, subject to patent infringement litigation.
We may be subject to CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 48 cease the development, manufacture, use, Pursuant to a letter dated 21 May 2009 and received marketing and or sale of products that use the by SiRF on 29 May 2009, U. S. Customs issued a intellectual property in question through a determination involving the redesigned software court-imposed sanction called an injunction: incorporated into the GPS devices subject to the limited exclusion order issued by the ITC in the ITC proceeding, that SiRF had established by a expend significant resources to modify or preponderance of the evidence that SiRFs redesign its products, manufacturing processes redesigned GPS chips fall outside of the scope of the or other technology so that it does not infringe exclusion order issued by the ITC.
Broadcom asked others intellectual property rights or to develop the ITC to commence an informal enforcement or acquire non-infringing technology, which proceeding against SiRF and two of its customers may not be possible: or alleging violations of the cease and desist orders, which SiRF opposed, and which request was denied obtain licenses to the disputed rights, which by the ITC.
Irrespective of the determination by U. S. could require the payment of substantial Customs, there is a risk that the ITC may commence upfront fees and future royalty payments and formal enforcement proceedings if Broadcom made may not be available to it on acceptable terms, such a request.
Our business could be materially and if at all, or to cease marketing the challenged adversely affected by such ITC proceedings including, products.
Before the CSR Group could be for example, if the redesigned software is found to be successful in defending an infringement claim, infringing.
the CSR Groups customers may already be reluctant to include the CSR Group on their We are also involved in two patent infringement suits future product design.
Therefore, even if the with Broadcom in the United States District Court for CSR Group is successful in defending an the Central District of California.
We have denied infringement action, negative publicity could Broadcoms claimed allegations against us in both already have a material adverse effect on its suits.
One of these suits seeks monetary damages for business in addition to the expense, time delay, and injunctive relief from the alleged infringement of and burden on management of the litigation four patents, two of which are at issue in the ITC itself.
The other suit seeks similar relief in relation to three other Broadcom patents.
In this suit, The U. S. International Trade Commission, or ITC, has scheduled for trial in November of this year, determined that certain products of SiRF and its Broadcom added allegations against us for False customers infringe patents held by Broadcom Advertising and Unfair Competition and we have Corporation, or Broadcom.
Although SiRF has asserted allegations against Broadcom for False obtained approval from U. S. Customs for the Advertising and Unfair Competition.
There is a risk importation of products at issue containing new that in one or both of these suits we could be ordered versions of its software, if Broadcom is successful in to pay substantial damages to Broadcom for alleged obtaining a judgment for substantial monetary past infringement, enjoined from further allegedly damages or granting an injunction against SiRF in infringing activities including with respect to certain relation to SiRFs alleged infringement, our customer products, and or required to pay royalties for any relationships may be harmed, and our business, alleged future infringement at a level determined by revenue, expenses, financial position and results of the court.
operations could be materially adversely affected.
SiRF and four of its customers are subject to a limited Furthermore, no assurance can be made that exclusion order and cease and desist orders issued Broadcom will not seek to commence additional by the ITC, which prohibit the unlicensed entry and litigation against us, including SiRF, or that the sale into the United States of certain products of SiRF pending or additional litigation with Broadcom will not and its customers that the ITC has determined infringe have a material adverse effect on our business, six patents held by Broadcom.
In August 2008, the customer relationships, expenses or results of ITC concluded that all six of the asserted Broadcom operations.
patents were valid and were infringed by certain of SiRFs products.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 49 DIRECTORS REPORT RISK FACTORS continued Our intellectual property indemnification practices may Our acquisition of SiRF Technology and or future adversely impact our business.
mergers or acquisitions may not achieve anticipated We have agreed to indemnify some customers for commercial, technological or financial benefits, costs and damages of intellectual property including synergies, and could divert managements infringement in some circumstances, which may attention, cause ownership dilution to our subject us to significant indemnification claims by our shareholders, and adversely affect our results of customers or others.
We may also have to defend operations and share price.
related third-party infringement claims made directly From time to time, we have made, and may wish in against us.
In some instances, our products are the future to make acquisitions and engage in designed for use in devices used by potentially mergers and other strategic transactions that are millions of consumers, such as cellular telephones, intended to support our business and commercial and our server software is placed on servers providing objectives, growth and diversification.
These strategic wireless network services to end-users, both of which transactions may fail to achieve the desired objectives, could subject it to considerable exposure should an including for example cost savings, revenue infringement claim occur.
One of our major customers enhancements or technology advancements that we advised us that it had received notice from one of our hope to derive.
In particular, our ability to successfully competitors that the incorporation of our chip sets realise cost synergies and revenue enhancements and into products requires the payment of patent license the timing of this realisation may be adversely affected fees to the competitor.
If this competitor or another by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: competitor pursued such claims, our business could be materially adversely affected our broad geographic areas of operations and the resulting potential complexity of integrating the separate business operations we acquire We may fail or be unable to obtain sufficient patent with our culture and strategies on a timely basis protection, which could harm our competitive position or at all: and increase our expenses.
Protecting of our proprietary technology is an important part of being able to compete successfully.
the risk that key employees in acquired Our patent applications may not provide sufficient businesses may leave, for instance because protection for all competitive aspects of our they are insufficiently incentivised to remain, do technology or may not result in issued patents.
Issued not integrate well with our management culture, patents may not provide competitive advantages to or are enticed away by competitors: us.
The laws of some foreign countries, such as China, in which we operate and or from which we difficulties in retaining or developing the derive significant amounts of revenue, do not protect customer relationships of the acquired intellectual property to the same extent as, for company: example, the laws of the United States and western Europe.
Our competitors may independently develop the difficulty of implementing cost savings similar technologies or design around our patents and plans: could also successfully challenge any issued patent.
Even where we have an issued patent, we may choose not to pursue all instances of patent the difficulty in identifying and managing infringement.
Our failure or inability to obtain sufficient liabilities associated with any business we patent protection could harm our competitive position acquire: and increase our expenses if we are required to pay license fees under patents issued to others.
the technical challenges associated with combining the technologies of the acquired company with our own technologies: and unforeseeable events, including major changes in the industries and markets in which we and the acquired company operate.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 50 The success of any strategic transactions will depend Risks related to the industry on, among other things, our ability to identify suitable Depressed economic conditions may continue to acquisition targets and to finance the transaction.
adversely affect our financial performance.
Consideration of strategic opportunities could divert Our products are predominantly supplied for adoption managements attention from our business and the into devices intended for the consumer market.
If financing of acquisitions may negatively impact our depressed economic conditions persist or worsen, financial condition and could require us to seek demand levels for our customers products, and funding from the capital markets, or result in therefore for our products, are likely to be materially substantial dilution to shareholders.
We expect that a substantial portion of our revenue will continue to be derived from the sale of our technologies to the consumer These and other factors may cause a material adverse electronics market and therefore, to the extent that effect on our business, prospects, results of sales of such consumer devices decline, our revenue operations and financial condition.
and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
Any difficulties Loss of key employees could hurt our competitive experienced by customers and suppliers in accessing position.
sources of liquidity could seriously disrupt their Our success depends to a significant extent upon our businesses, which could lead to a significant key senior executives and R&D, engineering, reduction in their future orders of our products or the marketing, sales, support and other personnel and inability or failure on their part to meet their payment our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate obligations to us.
The loss of the services of any of these key personnel without adequate replacement or Our quarterly and therefore annual revenue and the inability to attract new qualified personnel could operating results are affected by a wide variety of have a material adverse effect on us.
factors, making them difficult to predict and, if we do not meet quarterly and therefore annual financial We may encounter difficulties or incur unexpected expectations, our share price will likely decline.
costs in complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Our quarterly and therefore annual revenue and To comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley operating results are affected by a wide variety of Act and related SEC rules, CSR and its independent factors, making them difficult to predict.
Our results registered public accounting firm will be required to have in the past fluctuated significantly from quarter to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over quarter, a trend we would expect to continue.
Our financial reporting in each of our future annual reports operating results in some quarters or annual periods on Form 20-F, and to identify any material may be materially below market expectations, which weaknesses.
In connection with this process we may would cause the market price of our shares to decline.
need to make changes to our financial and managerial Our quarterly or annual periods operating results may controls, which may result in substantial expenses fluctuate as a result of the risks discussed in this and compliance costs.
If our management is unable to section and other factors, including: implement enhancements on a timely basis to our internal controls that are determined to be necessary global economic conditions: to address material weaknesses, if any, we could be subject to enhanced regulatory scrutiny and a loss of the cyclical nature of the semiconductor investor confidence, which could lead to a decline in industry, the trading price of our ordinary shares.
inventory management: technological changes: performance of our key customers in the markets they serve: CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 51 DIRECTORS REPORT RISK FACTORS continued delays in the introduction of new products: We are subject to foreign currency exchange risks.
Substantially all of our sales and cost of sales are denominated in US dollars, which is the functional changes in the relative volume of sales of our currency of all the entities within the Group.
A chip sets, our premium software offerings and significant portion of our operating costs and taxation our IP cores or other products and product is denominated in pounds sterling.
Although we put in mix, which have significantly different average place forward exchange contracts 11 to 15 months in selling prices and gross margins: advance to fix the exchange rate of the US dollar to pound sterling for the majority of these costs, unpredictable volume, timing and cancellation movements in the US dollar to pound sterling rate of customer orders: impact any pound sterling operating costs not covered by the forward contracts and, in the longer term, movements in the rate of exchange will impact the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery all of our sterling costs, as it will affect the rate fixed by of components used in our customers the forward contracts being put in place for future products: expenditures.
We are also exposed to foreign exchange risks from costs recorded in other changes in foreign exchange rates: currencies, which are currently not covered by forward contracts.
A material appreciation of the value the timing of new product announcements or of the US dollar against pound sterling could have a introductions by us or by our competitors: material adverse effect on our current year results of operations, mainly due to revaluation losses on sterling-denominated assets, as the forward contracts design losses to our competitors mentioned above provide a hedge to movements in most sterling-denominated liabilities.
A material the introduction or delay in launch of the our depreciation of the value of the US dollar against customers products that use our technology: pound sterling could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, due to the recording a decision by one of our customers to of pound sterling operating expense at a higher US terminate use of our technology: dollar exchange rate.
seasonality in our various target markets: Our business is highly cyclical, subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards, and has experienced significant downturns, including in difficulties in managing our product transitions connection with the recent global financial crisis.
effectively: We operate in the global semiconductor industry, which is highly cyclical, subject to rapid change and intangible asset write-downs: and evolving industry standards and has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with developments in litigation proceedings involving maturing products and declines in general economic the company, including fluctuations in litigation conditions, including in connection with the recent expenses.
Such downturns have reflected decreases in product demand, production overcapacity, excess inventory levels and accelerated We base our planned operating expenses in part on erosion in average selling prices, which can have a our expectations of future revenue, and our expenses material adverse effect on our business.
These factors are relatively fixed in the short term.
If revenue for a have in the past and may in the future cause particular period is lower than we expect, we may be substantial fluctuations in our revenue and results of unable to reduce our operating expenses operations.
proportionately for that period, which would harm our operating results.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 52 We may not accurately forecast demand for our adverse trading environment for distributors which products, and as a result may hold excess inventory could affect their ability to continue in business.
We or suffer from product shortages.
are subject to the risk that one or more of our distributors could suffer serious financial difficulties, or be unable to continue in business.
In these The level of inventory required in our business is circumstances, our own business with our customers sensitive to changes in the actual demand for our would be disrupted if they are unable to obtain our products compared with our forecast of sales of those products on a timely basis.
We may be unable to products.
In addition, we supply a wide range of collect amounts due from a failed distributor for products which are not interchangeable between products which have been supplied or to recover customers or applications.
Accurate forecasting of those products in default of non-payment.
Each of demand in the volatile and dynamic sectors in which these events could have a material adverse effect on we operate can be very difficult, particularly in times of our business and financial performance.
rapidly changing economic conditions and uncertain demand from end consumers for retail products.
Actual demand from our customers compared to We may fail to compete successfully in a very forecasted demand has the potential to vary competitive market.
If changes in actual market conditions are The market for our products is highly competitive and less favourable than those projected, we will hold rapidly evolving.
We compete in different product lines higher levels of inventory than is required to satisfy to varying degrees on the following characteristics: customer demand.
This may result in us holding inventory which we are unable to sell, due to price: customers no longer requiring the product held in inventory.
We may need to reduce the selling price of the surplus products in order to sell the inventory, and technical performance: this may still not be sufficient incentive to customers to enable us to sell the excess inventory.
In this product features: situation we may suffer reduced margins, inventory write-offs or both.
Similarly, in time of growing product system compatibility: demand, either generally or for particular products, we may not order sufficient inventory to satisfy customer requirements and as a result not be able to meet product design and technology: customer orders in a timely manner.
Obtaining additional supply may be costly or impossible, and timely introduction of new products: failing to meet customer needs may adversely affect customer relationships and reduce our revenue, which product availability: would adversely affect our results of operations.
manufacturing yields: and The financial difficulties or failure of our distributors could cause us to suffer an immediate financial loss and affect our ability to supply products to end sales and technical support.
We supply a significant proportion of our products to Given the intense competition in the semiconductor end customers through third party distributors.
Our industry, if our products are not selected by current or largest distributor accounted for approximately 12% potential customers, our business, financial condition of our net revenue in 2009 and 24% in 2008.
Our and results of operations will be materially adversely distributors are wholly independent third parties, affected.
which supplement our own direct marketing and sales efforts.
The current economic environment presents We are seeing increased competition throughout the significant challenges to the stability of distributors.
market for wireless connectivity products.
The Uncertain demand patterns, restrictions on credit increased competition could result in more terms and slowdown in orders represent a significant CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 53 DIRECTORS REPORT RISK FACTORS continued pronounced price reductions, reduced margins and The market for GPS-based location awareness or loss of market share.
Within our markets, we face capabilities in high-volume consumer and commercial competition from public and private companies, as applications may not develop as quickly as we expect.
well as the in-house design efforts of our customers.
The market for GPS-based location awareness A number of our competitors have significantly greater technology in high-volume consumer and commercial financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales applications is continually evolving and its potential is and other resources than us.
We may fail to compete uncertain.
Many of these GPS-based applications successfully, which could materially adversely affect have not been commercially introduced or have not our business and financial performance.
The success of our GPS-based business depends on the rapid development of this market.
We cannot predict the Some of our customers could become our growth rate, if any, of this market.
this market depends on several factors, including Some of our customers are also large integrated government mandates such as E911 mandate in the circuit suppliers and some of our large customers United States and E110 mandate in Japan, the already have expertise in-house in the technologies development of location awareness infrastructure by which we develop and supply.
These large customers wireless network operators and the availability of have longer operating histories, significantly greater location-aware content and services.
If the market for resources and name recognition, and a larger base of high-volume consumer and commercial GPS-based customers than we do.
The process of licensing our applications fails to develop in a timely manner, the technology to and support of such customers entails growth and success of our business may be limited.
the transfer of technology that may enable them to become a source of competition to us, despite our Our technologies could be integrated into other efforts to protect our intellectual property rights.
new design by a customer presents a competitive The Bluetooth and GPS standards have each evolved situation.
In the past, design win opportunities have over the time since their first introduction and an ever been lost to divisions within our customers and this increasing array of features have been added to the may occur to us in the future.
If our customers chips required by our customers.
At the same time, become our competitors, we may lose them as our ability to optimize chip design and industry-wide customers and they may no longer license products manufacturing improvements means that the physical from us, or in the same volumes, which may have a size of the Bluetooth-only and GPS functions has material adverse effect on our results of operations.
If our products cease to be used as an anchor point around which to Our technologies could decline in importance or be integrate other technologies, or if the functions that superseded by an alternative technology.
our products support were ultimately integrated into We derive the majority of our revenue from sales of one of the cellular chips in the phone, our business our Bluetoothand GPS-based products.
We would would be materially adversely affected.
Similarly, the be materially adversely affected if either of these emerging technologies which we have under technologies were to decline, or be replaced entirely, development or which we may release in the future, as the prevailing technology for short-range wireless may be integrated into one of the cellular chips in the communication and location-based services, or if phone, which could also materially adversely affect superior technologies were developed that resulted in our future business.
our products being less competitive.
We continue to invest in the development of next generation Government regulation of our technologies may products, but our future products may not gain increase our cost of doing business and or decrease market acceptance, we may fail to identify markets for demand for our products.
our products or our products could be rendered The market for our technologies is and in the future obsolete by the development of a new, superior may be increasingly affected by controls on exports or technology.
restrictions on application of measures adopted by governments or other supra-national organisations.
For example, GPS technology is restricted and its CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 54 export is controlled.
Our business may be impacted terminates its relationship with us, demands price by government regulations because its technology reductions, decides to adopt a competitors relies on the GPS satellite network and radio technology over our technology or if we are unable to frequency bands, aspects of which are controlled or negotiate and renew existing agreements with regulated by the U. S. and other governments.
The significant licensees, our royalty revenue, gross U. S. government may restrict specific uses of GPS margins and net income could be adversely impacted.
technology in some applications for privacy or other We face risks inherent in a royalty-based business reasons and block the civilian GPS signal at any time model, many of which are outside of our control.
In December 2004, the President of the United States authorized a new national policy We are highly reliant upon the success of our that established guidance and implementation actions customers products.
for space-based positioning, navigation, timing We rely on equipment manufacturers to select our programmes, augmentations and activities for U. S. products to be designed into their products.
Even if national and homeland security, civil, scientific, and an equipment manufacturer selects our product, the commercial purposes.
Government regulation and customers product may not be commercially other actions taken in relation to the GPS satellite successful.
As a result, sales of our products are network and other radio frequency bands used by our largely dependent on the commercial success of our technologies such as Bluetooth could interrupt or customers products.
If the customers products are increase our cost of doing business and or decrease unsuccessful, our business may be materially demand for our products, any of which could adversely affected.
materially adverse effect on our business.
Our business and future operating results may be Personal privacy concerns may limit the demand for materially adversely affected by events outside of our consumer and commercial applications and demand control.
We conduct our business in many foreign territories.
Our products rely on the ability to receive, analyse, Our wireless solutions are supplied to end customers transmit and store information.
Consumers may not based in diverse locations, who in turn market their accept some applications because of concerns that products worldwide into many countries.
Our own our products could compromise their personal operations and also the success of the customers privacy.
For example, consumers could consider that products and therefore our financial success may be our products allow for unwanted interception or affected by changes in economic, financial and intrusion into transferred data, may enable unwanted political stability in various countries or geographic access into the devices being used, or may allow the regions.
Adverse changes in one or more of these consumers location to be tracked and that this countries or in geographical regions generally, information could be collected, stored and used by including, for example, economic decline, failing others against the wishes of the consumer financial systems, political upheaval, civil unrest, concerned.
Governments may disallow specific uses terrorism, wars, outbreaks of diseases or natural of these technologies for privacy or other reasons or disasters, could have a material adverse effect on our could subject the industry to regulation.
If consumers ability to conduct our business and on our financial view our products as a threat to their privacy, demand and operational performance.
For example, we could decline, which could materially adversely affect procure supplies from, conduct business in or our operations and financial results.
otherwise derive significant revenue from China and Taiwan.
While the Chinese government has pursued Part of our business uses a royalty-based business economic reforms for a number of years, it continues model, which has inherent risks.
to exert considerable direct and indirect influence on In recent periods we have derived a portion of our net the economy.
Future actions by the Chinese revenue from large customers in the wireless markets government, including the reversal of economic from royalties paid by licensees of our technology.
We reforms and return to a more centrally planned depend on our ability to structure, negotiate and economy, could have a significant effect on economic enforce agreements for the determination and conditions in China, which may have a material impact payment of royalties.
If a significant licensee on our business and revenue.
Further, developments CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 55 DIRECTORS REPORT RISK FACTORS continued that adversely affect the political stability or economic ratio of our share price which affects the valuation of conditions in Taiwan, including the potential impact of certain assets including goodwill to our holdings of natural disasters on the geographically concentrated cash and liquid assets such as bank deposits and operations of our suppliers, could materially and marketable securities.
S. corporation adversely affect our business and revenue.
generally will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year in which 75% or more of its gross income is passive income, or 50% or more of the average value Risks related to owning CSR ordinary shares of its assets are considered passive assets As we do not currently intend to list our ordinary generally, assets that generate passive income.
This shares on any U. S. national securities exchange or determination is highly factual, and will depend upon, create a sponsored ADR program, a U. S. trading among other things, our market valuation and future market for our ordinary shares may not develop.
We believe we were not a PFIC We do not currently intend to list our ordinary shares for the taxable year ended in December 2009, but if on any U. S. securities exchange, and do not have we were to be classified as a PFIC for any future current plans to create a sponsored American taxable year, holders of CSR ordinary shares who are Depositary Receipt program for our ordinary shares.
U. S. taxpayers would be subject to adverse U. S. As a result, an active U. S. trading market for our federal income tax consequences.
ordinary shares may not develop.
Furthermore, it may be time-consuming and expensive for U. S. holders of our ordinary shares to dispose of their ordinary Shareholders in countries other than the United shares.
Kingdom will suffer dilution if they are unable to participate in future pre-emptive equity offerings.
Under English law, shareholders usually have We may decide in the future to terminate our reporting pre-emptive rights to subscribe on a pro rata basis in obligations under the Exchange Act.
the issuance of new shares for cash.
The exercise of We may decide to deregister the ordinary shares with pre-emptive rights by certain shareholders not the SEC and terminate our reporting obligations under resident in the United Kingdom may be restricted by the Exchange Act if we comply with the SEC applicable law or practice in the United Kingdom and requirements to effect such termination.
For example, the United States.
In particular, the exercise of because we have filed this Annual Report on pre-emptive rights by U. S. shareholders would be Form 20-F with the SEC, following twelve months prohibited unless the rights offering is registered under after the effective date of the registration statement on the Securities Act or an exemption from the Form F-4 that we filed in June 2009, we will have the registration requirements of the Securities Act applies.
ability to terminate our registration under the If no exemption applies and we do not wish to register Exchange Act if there are less than a certain number the rights offering, shareholders in the United States of resident U. S. holders of our ordinary shares or if the may not be able or permitted to exercise their trading volume of such shares is below a certain level.
We are also permitted under Were we to terminate our registration under the English law to disapply pre-emptive rights subject to Exchange Act, we would no longer be subject to SEC the approval of our shareholders by special resolution reporting requirements for example, the requirement and investor committee guidance on the limits of any to file annual reports on Form 20-F and information such disapplication and thereby exclude certain regarding certain material events on Form 6-K and shareholders, such as overseas shareholders, other obligations for example, those arising under the including in the United States, from participating in a Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 of an SEC reporting rights offering usually to avoid a breach of local company.
We may be treated as a passive foreign investment Your rights as a CSR shareholder will be governed by company.
English law, which may differ from the laws of other As a company domiciled outside of the United States jurisdictions.
with substantial cash assets, there is an ongoing risk Because CSR is a public limited company that the Company may be treated as a passive foreign incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, investment company often referred to as a PFIC for U. S. federal income tax purpose s depending on the CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 56 your rights as a shareholder will be governed by be subject to the same risks.
Shareholders outside English law and by CSRs memorandum and articles the United Kingdom who sell their shares must do so of association.
These rights differ from the typical on the London Stock Exchange against payment in rights of shareholders in companies in other pounds sterling.
As a result of any fluctuations in the jurisdictions.
For further information with respect to exchange rate between the currency of choice of the our ordinary shares, see Memorandum and Articles shareholder and the pound sterling, non-U.
shareholders may receive a reduced value upon the sale of their ordinary shares and will also incur transaction costs when converting the pound sterling Shareholders in countries outside of the United into another currency.
Kingdom may have difficulty suing us or our directors, or in enforcing judgments obtained outside of the United Kingdom.
The market price of our ordinary shares is volatile.
Our CSR is domiciled in the United Kingdom, and most of shareholders may be unable to resell their shares at or our directors are residents of the United Kingdom.
As above the price at which they acquired them.
a result, it may not be possible for shareholders in The stock market in general and our ordinary shares other countries to begin litigation against us or our in particular have recently experienced significant price directors, or to obtain discovery of relevant and volume volatility.
Our ordinary shares are subject documents and or the testimony of witnesses.
to significant fluctuations due to many factors, Shareholders in other countries may have difficulties in including but not limited to fluctuations in operating enforcing judgments obtained outside of the United results, announcements regarding new products, Kingdom.
product enhancements or technological advances by us or our competitors, changes in earnings estimates by market analysts, and general market conditions or The market value of our ordinary shares may be market conditions specific to particular industries.
Our adversely affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate share price is subject to speculation in the press and between the pound sterling and other currencies.
the analyst community, changes in recommendations Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts sterling and other currencies will affect the market valuation measures for our stock, changes in global value of our ordinary shares when expressed in that financial markets and global economies and general other currency.
If the relative value of the pound market trends unrelated to our performance.
sterling to another currency declines, the equivalent Technology stocks have experienced wide value against the pound sterling price of our ordinary fluctuations in prices, which sometimes have been shares traded on the London Stock Exchange will unrelated to their operating performance.
Although our current policy is not to pay price of our ordinary shares could be adversely dividends, any dividends we may decide to pay in the affected by these factors and fluctuations.
future would be paid in pounds sterling, which would CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 57
