34 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review Risk and Risk Management Risk and Risk Management fide La Rues reputation is based on security, The controls by their nature are designed integrity and trust.
This section therefore to manage rather than eliminate risk and only summarises the types of risks which can only provide reasonable but not absolute are either specific to the continuing assurance against material misstatement businesses of fide La Rue or which could or loss.
The processes used by the Board have a material, adverse effect on the and, on its behalf, by the Audit and Risk Group, following the disposal of the Cash Committees have been in place throughout Systems business.
It also describes the the year, and include: risk management systems and processes in place and significant events during reviewing: 2008 2009. monthly finance, operational and development reports: No business is risk free even if it has detailed processes and procedures for identifying internal and external audit plans: and managing risks.
The Combined Code significant issues identified by internal on Corporate Governance requires the and external audits: Board to maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders significant Group risks and risk investment and the Companys assets mitigation actions reported by the and at least annually to conduct a review Risk Committee including updates of the effectiveness of the Groups system to the Groups risk register: of internal controls.
The Board carried annual compliance statements in out its annual review which covered the form of self-audit questionnaires: all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and reports on other such matters as risk management systems.
Additionally, security, health and safety, environmental the Board received information about issues and fire risks: and the Groups operations throughout the discussing with management risks year enabling it regularly to evaluate the identified by management and or the nature and extent of the risks to which audit process and any changes from the Company is exposed.
The Board the previous review.
is therefore able to confirm that its system of internal control has been The financial control framework includes in place throughout 2008 2009. the following key features: Internal Control and Internal an annual strategic planning process: Financial Control The Board has overall responsibility for the an annual budget: Groups system of internal control and for a system of monthly reporting by each reviewing its effectiveness.
It relies on the operating subsidiary which involves Audit Committee and Risk Committee to comparison of actual results with the assist in this process.
Details of the Audit original budget and the updating of a and Risk Committees are set out in the full year forecast: Corporate Governance Statement.
monthly reporting of performance to Management is responsible for the Board: implementing the controls which are audited annual financial statements: and designed to meet the particular needs of the Group, and the risks to which it is interim financial statements reviewed exposed, with procedures intended to by the auditors.
Business Unit Managing Directors, to whom general managers of smaller businesses report, are responsible for establishing and maintaining these procedures.
35 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review Risk and Risk Management The main control procedures which In addition, such technologies require address the financial implications of the critical mass to gain credibility and this major business risks are centred on strict in turn requires an established common approval procedures.
These are reviewed infrastructure to support it.
Finally, cultural annually, approved by the Board and apply factors in many countries maintain strong to all subsidiaries.
They include: demand for cash as a method of transaction.
executive Directors approval of all major non-routine revenue expenditure: Operational issues Currency Board approval of all major capital The Currency business operates within expenditure: a defined market and the business is Board approval of all acquisitions exposed to the short term ordering and disposals: cycles of central banks.
Significant year on year changes in volume or customer a system of authorisation limits which mix could affect profitability.
The loss of cascades throughout the Group: and key customers, either in banknotes or Board consideration of any matter banknote paper, could have a major having a material effect on the Group.
effect on the Groups results and prospects which the business mitigates The operation of the Group Treasury by achieving as much diversity of department is discussed in the Financial customers as possible.
Review on page 38. fide La Rue seeks to mitigate the risk of Following the disposal of Cash Systems, counterfeiting by focusing on innovation the internal audit function was outsourced in technologies, features and products entirely to Ernst & Young who have, in to stay ahead of changing markets conjunction with senior management and and the competition and in particular the Audit Committee, carried out a review the counterfeiter.
Failure to develop new of the focus of, and way in which internal technology to meet customers needs, audits will be carried out in the future with delays in bringing products to market the objective of targeting resources better or failure to protect material intellectual and improving the process.
property rights may have an adverse impact upon the Groups prospects.
Specific Risks Strategy, Technology, Competition Cash Processing Solutions and Market Concentration The CPS business is exposed to long The Groups strategy and progress in ordering processes of central banks implementing it is outlined on pages 20 and commercial banks, frequently for to 33.
The Board is responsible for strategy, customers in the developing world.
carrying out an annual review based upon Significant year on year changes in volume extensive, detailed reviews of individual or customer mix could affect profitability, businesses plans.
which the business mitigates by achieving a diversity of its customer base.
fide La Rue operates in niche markets principally based on the production and One of the strengths of the CPS business management of cash.
The main strategic is that a significant part of the business threat is perceived to be a technological is annual service and maintenance of revolution which renders cash obsolete, the installed base.
These are very stable, such as e-cash.
long term contracts to maintain mission critical machine operation.
The business primarily operates in developing countries with approximately CPS total solution package typically 85 per cent of its customer base outside represents a major investment by its Europe and the USA.
Therefore, the profitability countries are likely to be significantly of the CPS business in any given period behind any trend to e-cash technologies.
can fluctuate significantly, depending Even in the UK, banknote volumes have upon the customer demand and the not been significantly eroded by existing specific solutions delivered in that period.
cashless payment methods such as debit and credit cards.
CPS continues to invest in and develop its product portfolio to ensure that the products continue to provide the flexible tailored solutions that fide La Rues customers demand.
36 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review Risk and Risk Management Risk and Risk Management Continued Reputation Security Damage to reputation may arise from The nature of the Groups activities an incident or event which is in monetary requires stringent security processes and terms not material.
Matters which could procedures to minimise the consequences affect fide La Rues reputation would of possible breaches, some of which, such include significant breaches of security or as changes in arrangements by carriers, a contravention of law, such as competition may be outside the Groups control.
Any law or anti-bribery law, environment or material breach of security could have a health and safety law or a failure to maintain major effect on the Groups prospects.
appropriate standards of corporate responsibility.
fide La Rue operates Overton Mill throughout the world and in areas where The Group is highly dependent on its paper the local standards may not equate to the mill at Overton which is close to the River standards applicable in the UK or those Test in Hampshire, UK.
The business of that fide La Rue requires all its subsidiaries Currency would suffer significant losses to and employees to follow as regards its printing business if the mill were out of business behaviour.
Any material damage action for a sustained period of time, either to fide La Rues reputation could have a by reason of fire or some other accident major effect on the Groups prospects.
or because of environmental contamination Details of these standards are set out in of the River Test, which is a Site of Special the Corporate Responsibility Report on Scientific Interest.
The Group regularly pages 41 to 45. reviews its physical protection systems and updates them as necessary to mitigate On 27 July 2007 the Company announced this risk.
The consequences of fire or that the Serious Fraud Office SFO was physical loss to any of its printing plants investigating the Company.
We believe this are less significant because the Group is in response to allegations of corruption has the flexibility to switch production made by a former employee against whom to different plants.
the Company has obtained and enforced a judgement for the recovery of monies General Risks stolen from it.
The Company believes the Economic conditions allegations made by this individual, who Significant changes in economic has since pleaded guilty to theft from the conditions, for example: the prices of Company and was sentenced to three commodities such as cotton, energy years imprisonment in February 2008, or inks: changes in interest rates, rates are false.
The Company understands that of inflation, economic growth and other these investigations are continuing and factors could substantially and adversely remains ready to co-operate with the affect the business, financial and operating SFO.
At present, the Company is not performance of the Group notwithstanding able to quantify the impact of any action the Groups normal policy of buying the SFO may take as a result of this commodities at prevailing market prices investigation and is not yet in a position under medium term supply contracts.
A number of businesses are relatively energy intensive, either because of production Significant effort is made to ensure that processes or due to the proportionately employees understand legal obligations.
There is an established anti-trust compliance programme and the Companys Business In addition, no one element of the above Code of Conduct accessible on the commodities represents more than 30 per Companys website defines what standards cent of the total final cost element of a of behaviour are expected.
Vertical integration gives distributors are also required to adhere to greater internal control with more than the Companys standards.
The Board has 60 per cent of costs now in house.
Further accepted recommendations following a mitigation is achieved through the rolling further review of its policies and procedures process of contract negotiation which against the recommendations made by provides the opportunity to update Lord Woolf as described in the Corporate processes to reflect the cost base.
Security Products is more exposed to the economic cycle than Currency due to the proportion of commercial organisations that it serves.
37 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Business Review Risk and Risk Management Although the identity market is more a Market Risk c Liquidity Risk insulated against the current economic Foreign Exchange Risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies climate than most, pressure on state The Group operates internationally and is maintaining sufficient cash and marketable finances may mean the cancellation or exposed to foreign exchange risk arising securities, the availability of funding through postponement of government identity from various currency exposures, primarily an adequate amount of committed credit projects.
Passport and identity document with respect to the US Dollar and Euro.
facilities and the ability to close out market issuance volumes are also expected to Foreign exchange risk arises from future positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the decrease as travel reduces or renewals commercial transactions, recognised underlying businesses, Group Treasury are postponed.
There are also risks around assets and liabilities and net investments aims to maintain flexibility in funding by the supply of critical document and system in foreign operations.
The Group aims to keeping committed credit lines available.
components as the external supply chain hedge such exposures where possible and struggles to deal with the limited availability practical.
However, any material exposure d Cash Flow and Fair Value of credit and working capital.
Although to foreign exchange risk could have a major Interest Rate Risk these effects have not been significant to effect on the Groups profits.
To manage fide La Rues interest rate management date, it is expected that the threat of these their foreign exchange risk arising from policy is generally to borrow and invest challenges will persist well into 2009 2010. future commercial transactions and cash at floating rates.
The Groups interest recognised assets and liabilities, entities rate risk arises from long term borrowings.
Legislation and regulation in the Group use forward contracts, Borrowings issued at variable rates expose fide La Rue is subject to the laws and transacted with Group Treasury.
the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
regulations of countries where it does Foreign exchange risk arises when future Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose business.
Failure to comply with such laws commercial transactions or recognised the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
and regulations could impose additional assets or liabilities are denominated in a costs on or have an adverse impact on currency that is not the entitys functional The Groups exposure to cash flow interest the performance of and or damage the currency.
Group Treasury is responsible for rate risk arises principally from cash balances reputation of the business carried on managing the net position in each foreign held.
Current low levels of borrowings are by the Group.
currency by using external forward foreign all at floating rates.
At higher levels of exchange contracts transacted with borrowings the policy is to manage the Financial Risk Management financial institutions.
interest rate exposure through the use of The Groups activities expose it to a variety floating to fixed interest rate swaps.
Such of financial risks: market risk including For segment reporting purposes, each interest rate swaps have the economic currency risk and fair value interest rate subsidiary designates contracts with Group effect of converting borrowings from floating risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, cash flow Treasury as fair value hedges or cash flow rates to fixed rates so as to achieve a interest rate risk and commodity price risk.
Any material exposure could adversely foreign exchange contracts are designated impact the Groups earnings.
This is not a at Group level as hedges of foreign Capital Management material risk for the Companys sufficiency exchange risk on specific assets, liabilities The Groups policy is to maintain a strong of working capital over the next 12 months.
or future transactions on a gross basis.
capital base so as to maintain investor, The Groups overall risk management creditor and market confidence and programme focuses on the unpredictability The Groups risk management policy is to sustain future development of the of financial markets and seeks to minimise to hedge firm commitments and between business.
The Board of Directors monitors potential adverse effects on the Groups 60 per cent and 100 per cent of forecast earnings per share, which the Group financial performance.
The Group uses exposures in each major currency for defines as the earnings attributable to the subsequent 12 months.
Forecast derivative financial instruments to hedge ordinary shareholders by the weighted transactions must be highly probable certain risk exposures as soon as they arise average number of Ordinary Shares but does not take speculative positions.
The outstanding during the year.
The Board Risk management is carried out by a Group has certain investments in foreign also monitors the level of dividends to central treasury department Group operations, whose net assets are exposed ordinary shareholders.
Treasury under policies approved by to foreign currency translation risk.
Group Treasury identifies, Currency exposure arising from the net The Groups strong cash generative evaluates and hedges financial risks assets of the Groups foreign operations characteristics and current low gearing in close cooperation with the Groups is managed primarily through borrowings has given the Board scope regularly operating units.
denominated in the relevant foreign to return to shareholders surplus cash currencies and through foreign flow through a combination of progressive Group Treasury provides written principles currency swaps.
dividends, share buy backs and for overall risk management, as well as special dividends.
policies covering specific risks, such as b Credit Risk foreign exchange, interest rate, credit, use The Group has no significant concentrations There were no changes to the Groups of derivative financial instruments and the of credit risk.
It has policies in place to approach to capital management during investment of excess liquidity.
The Board ensure that wholesale sales of products the year and the Group is not subject to any authorises all risk management instruments are made to customers with an appropriate externally imposed capital requirements.
Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high-credit quality financial institutions.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution.
