Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business review 65 Post employment benefi t liabilities are also not included in the table above.
The group makes service-based cash contributions to the Diageo pension scheme in the United Kingdom.
In the year ending 30 June 2010, the contribution is expected to be 46 million.
In addition, the group has agreed a defi cit funding plan with the trustee of the UK Diageo Pension Scheme, which provides for the group to make a further payment of 50 million in the year to 30 June 2010 into an escrow account.
The amount already held in escrow at 30 June 2009 is 144 million.
It is anticipated that the escrow will be released to the trustee and invested into the Scheme during the year ending 30 June 2010.
Funding arrangements are being reviewed and may be adjusted following agreement between Diageo and the trustee, based on the results of the valuation as at 31 March 2009.
Additionally, funding arrangements will be reviewed and adjusted in the light of future triennial actuarial valuations.
Contributions to other plans in the year ending 30 June 2010 are expected to be approximately 125 million.
Offbalance sheet arrangements In connection with the disposal of Pillsbury in October 2001, Diageo has guaranteed debt of International Multifoods Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of The JM Smucker Company as from 18 June 2004, to the amount of $200 million 121 million, until November 2009.
The directors are not aware of any instances of default by the borrower at present, but the ability of the borrower to continue to be in compliance with the guaranteed debt instrument, and in particular remaining current on payments of interest and repayments of principal, is signifi cantly dependent on the current and future operations of the borrower and its affi liates.
This guarantee is unrelated to the ongoing operations of the groups business.
Save as disclosed above, neither Diageo plc nor any member of the Diageo group has any offbalance sheet fi nancing arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material future eff ect on the groups fi financial condition, changes in fi financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources.
Risk management This section on risk management forms part of the audited fi financial statements.
The groups funding, liquidity and exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks are managed by the groups treasury department.
The treasury department uses a combination of derivative and conventional fi financial instruments to manage these underlying risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of board-approved policies and guidelines, which are recommended and subsequently monitored by the fi finance committee.
This committee is described in the corporate governance report.
These policies and guidelines include benchmark exposure and or hedge cover levels for key areas of treasury risk.
The benchmarks, hedge cover and overall appropriateness of Diageos risk management policies are reviewed by the board following, for example, signifi cant business, strategic or accounting changes.
The framework provides for limited defi ned levels of fl exibility in execution to allow for the optimal application of the board-approved strategies.
Transactions giving rise to exposures away from the defi ned benchmark levels arising on the application of this fl exibility are separately monitored on a daily basis using value at risk analysis.
These derivative fi financial instruments are carried at fair value and gains or losses are taken to the income statement as they arise.
At 30 June 2009 gains and losses on these transactions were not material.
The fi finance committee receives monthly reports on the activities of the treasury department, including any exposures away from the defi ned benchmarks.
Currency risk The group publishes its consolidated fi financial statements in sterling and conducts business in many foreign currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange rate movements, which will aff ect the groups transaction costs and the translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations.
Where hedge accounting is applied, hedges are documented and tested for hedge eff ectiveness on an ongoing basis.
Diageo expects hedges entered into to continue to be eff ective and therefore does not expect the impact of ineff ectiveness on the income statement to be material.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The group hedges a substantial portion of its exposure to fl uctuations on the translation into sterling of its foreign operations by designating net borrowings held in foreign currencies and by using foreign currency swaps and forwards.
Where a liquid foreign exchange market exists, the groups policy approved by the board is to seek to hedge currency exposure on its net investment in foreign operations within the following percentage bands: 80% to 100% for US dollars, 80% to 100% for euros and 50% to 100% for other signifi cant currencies.
Exchange diff erences arising on the retranslation of foreign currency borrowings including foreign currency swaps and forwards, to the extent that they are in an eff ective hedge relationship, are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense to match exchange diff erences on net investments in foreign operations.
Exchange diff erences on foreign currency borrowings not in a hedge relationship and any ineff ectiveness are taken to the income statement.
Diageo Annual Report 2009 66 Business review Transaction exposure hedging For currencies in which there is an active market, the groups policy approved by the board is to seek to hedge between 60% and 100% of forecast transactional foreign exchange rate risk, for up to a maximum of 21 months forward, using forward foreign currency exchange contracts with coverage levels increasing nearer to the forecast transaction date.
The eff ective portion of the gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense and recycled into the income statement at the same time as the underlying hedged transaction aff ects the income statement.
Any ineff ectiveness is taken to the income statement.
Hedge of foreign currency debt The group uses cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the forward foreign currency risk associated with certain foreign currency denominated bonds.
Interest rate risk The group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally on changes in US dollar, euro and sterling interest rates.
To manage interest rate risk, the group manages its proportion of fi xed to fl oating rate borrowings within limits approved by the board, primarily through issuing fi xed and fl oating rate term debt and commercial paper, and by utilising interest rate derivatives.
These practices serve to reduce the volatility of the groups reported fi financial performance.
To facilitate operational effi ciency and eff ective hedge accounting, the groups policy is to maintain fi xed rate borrowings within a band of 40% to 60% of projected net borrowings, and the overall net borrowings portfolio is managed according to a duration measure.
The board approved template specifi es diff erent duration guidelines and fi xed fl oating amortisation periods time taken for the fi xed element of debt to reduce to zero depending on diff erent interest rate environments.
The majority of Diageos existing interest rate hedges are designated as hedges.
Designated hedges are expected to be eff ective.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter diffi culty in meeting obligations associated with fi financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or other fi financial assets.
The groups policy with regard to the expected maturity profi le of borrowings of group fi nancing companies is to limit the amount of such borrowings maturing within 12 months to 50% of gross borrowings less money market demand deposits, and the level of commercial paper to 30% of gross borrowings less money market demand deposits.
In addition, it is group policy to maintain backstop facility terms from relationship banks to support commercial paper obligations.
Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in fi financial loss to the group.
Credit risk arises from cash balances including bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents, fi xed income and money market investments and derivative fi financial instruments, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables, fi financial guarantees and committed transactions.
Credit risk is managed on a group basis separately for fi financial and business related credit exposures.
Financial credit risk Diageo minimises its fi financial credit risk through the application of risk management policies approved and monitored by the board.
Counterparties are limited to major banks and fi financial institutions, and the board defi ned policy restricts the exposure to any one counterparty bank by setting credit limits taking into account the credit quality of the counterparty bank as defi ned by Moodys, Standard and Poors or Fitch.
The board also defi fines the types of fi financial instruments which may be transacted.
The group policy ensures that individual counterparty limits are adhered to and that there are no signifi cant concentrations of credit risk.
Financial instruments are only transacted with major international fi financial institutions with a long term credit rating within the A band or better.
The credit risk arising through the use of fi financial instruments for interest rate and foreign exchange management is estimated with reference to the fair value of contracts with a positive value, rather than the notional amount of the instruments themselves.
When derivative transactions are undertaken with bank counterparties, Diageo may, where appropriate, enter into certain agreements with such bank counterparties whereby the parties agree to post cash collateral for the benefi t of the other if the net valuations of the derivatives are above a pre-determined threshold.
During the year ended 30 June 2009, Diageo reviewed the credit limits applied and continued to monitor the counterparties credit quality in response to market credit conditions.
