Diageo Annual Report 2009 28 Business description If there is an extended period of On 9 June 2008, Diageo It is possible that the pursuit completed the acquisition of constraint in the capital markets, of this strategic focus on premium Ketel One Worldwide BV KOW, with debt markets in particular drinks could give rise to further experiencing a lack of liquidity, a 50:50 company based in the acquisitions including associated Disposed businesses at a time when cash fl ows from Netherlands, with the Nolet Group, fi nancing, disposals, joint ventures owners of the Ketel One brand.
Diageos business may be under or partnerships.
There can be Pillsbury General Mills The company owns the exclusive pressure, this may have an impact no guarantee that any such Diageo acquired an investment on Diageos ability to maintain and perpetual global rights to acquisition, disposal, joint venture in the shares of General Mills on current long term strategies, with market, sell and distribute Ketel or partnership would deliver the the disposal of Pillsbury to General One vodka products, including a consequent eff ect on the groups benefi ts intended.
On Ketel One vodka, Ketel One Citroen growth rate.
Such developments Similarly, there can be no 4 October 2004, Diageo sold may adversely aff ect shareholder vodka and any line extensions of assurance that the cost-saving 50 million shares of common stock returns or share price.
Additionally, Ketel One vodka and Ketel One or restructuring programmes in General Mills and transferred Citroen vodka.
The business is continued volatility in exchange implemented by Diageo in order a further 4 million shares to the operated pursuant to a global rates used to translate foreign to improve effi ciencies and deliver Diageo UK pension fund and currencies into pounds sterling agreement and ancillary cost-savings will deliver the Diageo ceased to be an affi liate may have a signifi cant impact on agreements relating to intellectual expected benefi ts.
of General Mills for US federal property, supply, distribution Diageos reported results.
securities laws purposes at that services and certain other matters.
Decreases in the trustees Systems change programmes time.
In November 2005, Diageo valuations of Diageos pension Diageo paid a total of 472 million may not deliver the benefi ts sold its remaining 25 million shares plans may also increase pension including acquisition costs for a intended and systems failures of common stock of General Mills.
50% equity stake in the company funding requirements.
could lead to business disruption and is entitled to certain Certain change programmes Burger King Diageo faces competition governance rights under the designed to improve the Diageo completed the disposal of that may reduce its market global agreement.
Diageo eff ectiveness and effi ciency Burger King on 13 December 2002. consolidates the company with a share and margins of end-to-end operating, minority interest.
The Nolet Group Diageo faces substantial administrative and fi financial Risk factors competition from several has an option to sell their stake in systems and processes continue Diageo believes the following international companies as well the company to Diageo for $900 to be undertaken.
This includes million 545 million plus interest to be the principal risks and as local and regional companies in moving transaction processing from 9 June 2011 to 9 June 2013. uncertainties facing the group.
the countries in which it operates.
from a number of markets to If any of these risks occur, Diageos Diageo competes with drinks If the Nolet Group exercises this business service centres.
There business, fi financial condition and companies across a wide range option but Diageo chooses not to can be no certainty that these buy their stake, Diageo will pay results of operations could suff er of consumer drinking occasions.
programmes will deliver the $100 million 61 million and the and the trading price and liquidity Within a number of categories, expected operational benefi ts.
consolidation or realignment is Nolet Group may then pursue a There is likely to be disruption In the current global fi financial still possible.
Consolidation is also sale of their stake to a third party, caused to production processes subject to rights of fi first off er and crisis and uncertain economic taking place amongst Diageos and possibly to administrative last refusal on Diageos part.
environment, certain risks may customers in many countries.
and fi financial systems as further gain more prominence either Increased competition and On 16 June 2009, Diageo changes to such processes are individually or when taken unanticipated actions by acquired the remaining 80% of eff ected.
They could also lead to equity in Stirrings LLC for 6 million together.
The following are competitors or customers could adverse customer or consumer examples of ways that any of and provided 7 million as lead to downward pressure on reaction.
Any failure of information the risks below may become prices and or a decline in Diageos deferred consideration payable.
systems could adversely impact so exacerbated.
Demand for market share in any of these Diageo initially acquired a 20% on Diageos ability to operate.
equity stake for 5 million in the beverage alcohol products, in categories, which would adversely As with all large systems, Diageos particular luxury or super premium year ended 30 June 2007. aff ect Diageos results and hinder information systems could be products, may decrease with a its growth potential.
penetrated by outside parties reduction in consumer spending intent on extracting information, levels.
Costs of operations may Diageo may not be able to derive corrupting information or increase if infl ation were to the expected benefi ts from its disrupting business processes.
become prevalent in the strategy to focus on premium Such unauthorised access could economic environment, resulting drinks or its cost-saving and disrupt Diageos business and or in an increase in the costs of raw restructuring programmes lead to loss of assets.
These factors may also designed to enhance earnings concentration of processes in lead to intensifi ed competition for Diageos strategy is to focus on business service centres also market share, with consequential premium drinks to grow its means that any disruption arising potential adverse eff ects on business through organic sales from system failure or physical volumes and prices.
The fi financial and operating profi t growth plant issues could impact on and economic situation may have and the acquisition of premium a large portion of Diageos a negative impact on third parties drinks brands that add value for global business.
with whom Diageo does, or may shareholders.
There can be no do, business.
Any of these factors assurance that Diageos strategic may aff ect the groups results of focus on premium drinks will result operations, fi financial condition in opportunities for growth and and liquidity.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 29 To the extent that third parties sell products which are either Regulatory decisions and Diageo is subject to litigation counterfeit versions of Diageo changes in the legal and directed at the beverage alcohol brands or inferior brands that look regulatory environment could industry and other litigation like Diageo brands, consumers increase Diageos costs and Companies in the beverage of Diageo brands could confuse signifi cant aspect of Diageos liabilities or limit its business alcohol industry are, from time to Diageo products with them.
This activities time, exposed to class action or could cause them to refrain from plans for growth.
There can be Diageos operations are subject to other litigation relating to alcohol purchasing Diageo brands in the no assurance as to Diageos extensive regulatory requirements advertising, product liability, future and in turn could impair continuing ability to develop and launch successful new products or which include those in respect of alcohol abuse problems or health brand equity and adversely aff ect production, product liability, consequences from the misuse of Diageos business.
variants of existing products or as distribution, importation, alcohol, and Diageo is routinely to the profi table lifespan of newly marketing, promotion, labelling, subject to litigation in the ordinary Demand for Diageos products or recently developed products.
Any signifi cant changes in advertising, labour, pensions and course of its operations.
If such may be adversely aff ected environmental issues.
Changes in litigation resulted in fi fines, by changes in consumer consumer preferences and failure laws, regulations or governmental damages or reputational damage preferences and tastes and to anticipate and react to such policy could cause Diageo to incur to Diageo or its brands, Diageos adverse impacts of a declining changes could result in reduced demand for Diageos products material additional costs or business could be materially economy liabilities that could adversely adversely aff ected.
Diageos collection of brands and erosion of its competitive aff ect its business.
In particular, includes some of the worlds and fi financial position.
Continued governmental bodies in countries Contamination, counterfeiting or leading beverage alcohol brands economic pressures could lead to consumer selection of products where Diageo operates may other circumstances could harm as well as brands of local impose new labelling, product the integrity of customer prominence.
Maintaining Diageos at lower price points, whether or production requirements, support for Diageos brands and competitive position depends on Diageos or those of competitors, limitations on the advertising adversely aff ect the sales of its continued ability to off er which may have an adverse eff ect on Diageos profi tability.
and or promotion activities used those brands products that have a strong appeal to market beverage alcohol, The success of Diageos brands to consumers.
Consumer restrictions on retail outlets, other depends upon the positive image preferences may shift due to If the social acceptability of restrictions on marketing, that consumers have of those a variety of factors including Diageos products declines, Diageos sales volume could promotion and distribution or brands, and contamination, changes in demographic and other restrictions on the locations whether arising accidentally, or social trends, public health decrease and the business could or occasions where beverage through deliberate third-party regulations, changes in travel, be materially adversely aff ected alcohol is sold which directly or action, or other events that harm vacation or leisure activity patterns, In recent years, there has been increased social and political indirectly limit the sales of Diageo the integrity or consumer support weather eff ects and a downturn in products.
Regulatory authorities for those brands, could adversely economic conditions, which may attention directed to the beverage under whose laws Diageo aff ect their sales.
Diageo purchases reduce consumers willingness alcohol industry.
Diageo believes operates may also have most of the raw materials for the to purchase premium branded that this attention is the result of public concern over problems enforcement power that can production and packaging of products.
In addition, concerns subject the group to actions such its products from third-party about health eff ects due to related to alcohol abuse, including as product recall, seizure of producers or on the open market.
negative publicity regarding drink driving, underage drinking products or other sanctions, which Diageo may be subject to liability alcohol consumption, negative and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol.
If, as a result, could have an adverse eff ect on if contaminants in those raw dietary eff ects, regulatory action its sales or damage its reputation.
materials or defects in the or any litigation or customer the general social acceptability In addition, beverage alcohol distillation, fermentation or complaints against companies in of beverage alcohol were to products are the subject of bottling process lead to low the industry may have an adverse decline signifi cantly, sales of Diageos products could national import and excise duties beverage quality or illness among, eff ect on Diageos profi tability.
in most countries around the or injury to, Diageos consumers.
The competitive position of materially decrease.
An increase in import or In addition, Diageo may voluntarily Diageos brands could also be excise duties could have a recall products in the event of aff ected adversely by any failure to signifi cant adverse eff ect on contamination or damage.
achieve consistent, reliable quality Diageos sales revenue or margin, A signifi cant product liability in the product or service levels both through reducing overall judgement or a widespread to customers.
consumption and by encouraging product recall may negatively In addition, both the launch consumers to switch to lowerimpact on sales and profi tability and ongoing success of new taxed categories of beverage of the aff ected brand or all Diageo products is inherently uncertain alcohol.
brands for a period of time especially as to their appeal to Diageos reported after tax depending on product availability, consumers.
The failure to launch income is calculated based on competitive reaction and a new product successfully can extensive tax and accounting consumer attitudes.
Even give rise to inventory write off s requirements in each of its relevant if a product liability claim is and other costs and can aff ect jurisdictions of operation.
Changes unsuccessful or is not fully consumer perception of an in tax law including tax rates, pursued, resulting negative existing brand.
Growth in Diageos accounting policies and publicity could adversely aff ect business has been based on both accounting standards could Diageos reputation with existing the launch of new products and materially reduce Diageos and potential customers and its the growth of existing products.
Product innovation remains a Diageo Annual Report 2009 30 Business description were such assets to be lost due to contamination, fi re or natural Diageos operating results disasters or destruction resulting foreign currencies into pounds may be adversely aff ected by from negligence or the acts of sterling may have a signifi cant increased costs or shortages third parties.
In addition, there is an impact on Diageos reported of labour inherent risk of forecasting error results of operations from year Diageos operating results could in determining the quantity of by political and economic to year.
be adversely aff ected by labour maturing stock to lay down in a developments or industrial action Diageo may also be adversely or skill shortages or increased given year for future consumption.
in any of the countries where impacted by fl uctuations in labour costs due to increased This could lead to an inability to Diageo has distribution networks, interest rates, mainly through an competition for employees, higher supply future demand or lead to production facilities or marketing increased interest expense.
To employee turnover or increased a future surplus of inventory and companies.
Diageos operations partly delay any adverse impact employee benefi t costs.
Diageos consequent write down in value are also subject to a variety of from interest rate movements, the success is dependent on the of maturing stocks.
other risks and uncertainties groups policy is to maintain fi xed capability of its employees.
There related to trading in numerous rate borrowings within a band of is no guarantee that Diageo will An increase in the cost of raw foreign countries, including 40% to 60% of projected net continue to be able to recruit, materials or energy could aff ect political or economic upheaval borrowings, and the overall net retain and develop the capabilities Diageos profi tability and the imposition of any import, borrowings portfolio is managed that it requires to deliver its The components that Diageo uses investment or currency according to a duration measure.
strategy, for example in relation for the production of its beverage restrictions, including tariff s and See Business review Risk to sales, marketing and innovation products are largely commodities import quotas or any restrictions management.
capability within markets or in its that are subject to price volatility on the repatriation of earnings and senior management.
The loss of caused by changes in global capital.
Political and or social Diageos operations may be senior management or other key supply and demand, weather unrest, potential health issues adversely aff ected by failure personnel or the inability to conditions, agricultural uncertainty including pandemic issues and to maintain or renegotiate identify, attract and retain qualifi ed and or governmental controls.
terrorist threats and or acts may distribution, supply and personnel in the future could make Commodity price changes may also occur in various places around manufacturing agreements it diffi cult to manage the business result in unexpected increases in the world, which will have an on favourable terms and could adversely aff ect the cost of raw materials, glass impact on trade, tourism and Diageos business has a number operations and fi financial results.
bottles and other packaging travel.
These disruptions can aff ect of distribution agreements for materials and Diageos beverage Diageos ability to import or export brands owned by it or by other Diageos operating results products.
Diageo may also be products and to repatriate funds, companies.
These agreements may be adversely aff ected by adversely aff ected by shortages as well as aff ecting the levels of vary depending on the particular disruption to production facilities of raw materials or packaging consumer demand for example brand, but tend to be for a fi xed or business service centres materials.
In addition, energy in duty free outlets at airports or number of years.
There can be no Diageo would be aff ected if there cost increases result in higher in on trade premises in aff ected assurance that Diageo will be able were a catastrophic failure of its transportation, freight and other regions and therefore Diageos to renegotiate distribution rights major production facilities or operating costs.
Diageo may not levels of sales or profi tability.
on favourable terms when they business service centres.
See be able to increase its prices to Part of Diageos growth strategy expire or that agreements will not Business description Premium off set these increased costs includes expanding its business in be terminated.
Failure to renew drinks Production for details of without suff ering reduced volume, certain countries where consumer distribution agreements on Diageos principal production sales and operating profi t. Diageo spending in general, and spending favourable terms could have an areas.
In addition, the maintenance may experience signifi cant on Diageos products in particular, adverse impact on Diageos sales and development of information increases in commodity costs has not historically been as great and operating profi t. In addition, systems may result in systems and energy costs.
but where there are prospects for Diageos sales and operating profi t failures which may adversely growth.
There is no guarantee that may be adversely aff ected by any aff ect business operations.
Diageos business may be this strategy will be successful and disputes with distributors of its Diageo has a substantial adversely impacted by some of the markets represent a products or suppliers of raw inventory of aged product unfavourable economic higher risk in terms of their materials, or a failure to renew categories, principally scotch conditions or political or other changing regulatory environments supply or manufacturing whisky and Canadian whisky, developments and risks in the and higher degree of uncertainty agreements on favourable terms.
which mature over periods of countries in which it operates over levels of consumer spending.
The maturing Diageos business is dependent on Diageo may also be adversely Diageo may not be able inventory is stored primarily in general economic conditions in aff ected by movements in the to protect its intellectual Scotland, and the loss through the United States, Great Britain value of, and returns from, the property rights contamination, fi re or other natural and other important markets.
investments held by its Given the importance of brand disaster of all or a portion of the A signifi cant deterioration in these pension funds.
recognition to its business, Diageo stock of any one of those aged conditions, including a reduction Diageo may be adversely has invested considerable eff ort in product categories could result in in consumer spending levels, aff ected by fl uctuations in protecting its intellectual property a signifi cant reduction in supply of customer destocking, the failure exchange rates.
The results of rights, including trademark those products, and consequently, of customer, supplier or fi financial operations of Diageo are registration and domain names.
Diageo would not be able to meet counterparties or a reduction in accounted for in pounds sterling.
Diageos patents cover some of consumer demand for those the availability of, or an increase Approximately 37% of sales in the its process technology, including products as it arises.
There in the cost of fi nancing to, Diageo, year ended 30 June 2009 were in some aspects of its bottle marking can be no assurance that insurance could have a material adverse US dollars, approximately 12% technology.
Diageo also uses proceeds would cover the eff ect on Diageos business and were in sterling and approximately security measures and agreements replacement value of Diageos results of operations.
In addition, 18% were in euros.
Movements in to protect its confi dential maturing inventory or other assets, Diageo may be adversely aff ected exchange rates used to translate information.
