19 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Principal risks and uncertainties Operational risk management Financial risk management Significant reduction in the death rate An assessment of the Groups exposure to financial risks There is a risk that the number of deaths in any year and a description of how these risks are managed are significantly reduces.
This would have a direct result included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
on the financial performance of both the funerals and crematoria divisions.
The Group manages the operational and financial risks described through a combination of regular Board reports However, the profile of deaths has historically followed and also monthly and weekly management information a similar profile to that predicted by the ONS, giving the that is reviewed by the Executive Directors.
Group the ability to plan its business accordingly.
Nationwide adverse publicity Nationwide adverse publicity could result in a significant reduction in the number of funerals or cremations performed in any financial period.
This would have a direct result on the financial performance of that division.
However, this risk is addressed by ensuring appropriate policies and procedures are in place, which are designed to ensure client service excellence.
These policies and procedures retain flexibility for the business to serve families in accordance with local traditions.
Ability to increase average revenues per funeral or cremation Operating profit growth is in part attributable to the Groups ability to increase the average revenue per funeral or cremation.
There can be no guarantee that future average revenues per funeral or cremation will increase at rates similar to previous periods.
However, the Group believes that its focus on client service excellence helps to mitigate this risk.
Significant reduction in market share It is possible that other external factors, such as new competitors, could result in a significant reduction in market share within funeral or crematoria operations.
However, the Group believes that this risk is mitigated for funeral operations by reputation and recommendation being a key driver to the choice of funeral director being used and for crematoria operations is mitigated by difficulties associated with building new crematoria.
