36 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 Principal risks As required by the UK Companies Act 2006, the following table provides a list of some of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
It should not be seen as comprehensive.
The Groups process for managing these risks and uncertainties is detailed in the Corporate Governance report.
Risk description Impact Mitigating factors To the extent that our Many of the Groups solutions are mission critical to its Macroeconomic risk: The Group derives a significant portion of its clients in these sectors clients, and in addition are often used to reduce their revenue from clients in certain market are impacted by the costs and improve their productivity.
sectors, including the financial services current economic sector, the telecommunications sector downturn, the Group Certain revenue streams from these clients are and multinational or global clients.
As is exposed to the risk contracted on an annuity basis which provides a consequence, it is exposed to any of revenue declines insulation to economic downturn.
adverse macroeconomic impact in any or working capital of these sectors.
No single client accounts for more than 5% of the Groups revenue and therefore the risk of the loss of an individual client is contained.
Exposure to country risk: The Political or economic The Group operates in a large number of countries, Group operates across a wide range disruption in any of the both developed and developing, which to a certain of political and economic environments Groups major trading extent provides a hedge against this exposure.
With and as a result is exposed to adverse territories could impact regard to containing exposure in any one territory, developments in these environments.
the Group monitors developments closely, and also Countries to which the Group is focuses on maintaining strong local management materially exposed include South Africa, capability.
Australia, the United Kingdom, India and the United States.
Vendor risk: The Group has close and Any changes to the The Groups geographic footprint and local client mutually beneficial partnerships with terms and conditions relationships make it an important channel to market leading technology vendors, enabling of purchase from key for its partners, and there is a mutual dependency it to provide its clients with the most vendors may result in on promoting stable and long term relationships.
The advanced and exible technology lower market share or Group also invests substantial time and resources in solutions.
The Groups relationship lower profitability.
promoting and managing its vendor relationships.
with these partners is important to its continued success.
Deal complexity risk: The growth This risk could result in The Group has bid and commercial management in global business, the Groups drive the Groups failure to methodologies, which are managed through dened towards services-led solutions, the deliver against contractual governance processes.
This has led to a relatively low industrys trend towards annuity based obligations, which in turn incidence of failure in the past, supported by the quality or cloud computing arrangements, would result in reduced and skill of employees involved in deal construction and are some of the factors contributing profitability, regulatory negotiation.
to the increasing complexity of client repercussions or engagements.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 37 Risk description Impact Mitigating factors Regulatory risk: The Group operates Risks include possible The Group invests significant resource in understanding in many different countries, and legal sanction, inefficient the relevant transfer pricing and regulatory the complexities of cross border taxation and damage to environments, and in ensuring that it is fully compliant transactions contribute to the risk of reputation.
with the laws and regulations of all territories within regulatory non-compliance, especially in which it operates.
relation to transfer pricing and taxation.
Employee retention risk: The risk of Inability to attract and The Group places a heavy emphasis on attracting not being able to attract, develop and retain key talent would and retaining world class employees.
Key initiatives retain key employees.
harm the Groups ability include: a consistent and effective recruitment process to execute its strategy.
to enhance candidate experience, effective induction programmes to ensure rapid assimilation into the Group, development of enhanced people management capabilities to engage, motivate, and retain talent.
Further information on employees is set out in the Corporate Responsibility report.
Business continuity risk: An Business continuity Our business continuity plans are constantly being element of the Groups managed risks associated with rened, including ensuring that alternative solutions are services revenue depends on remote operational or IT systems in place to adapt to unforeseen disruption to critical infrastructure management, which in and data security failure business processes.
turn depends on resilient systems and could have a significant internal IT infrastructure.
Balance sheet risk: Risks relating to Liquidity risk is the Liquidity risk management within the Group focuses on the management of the Groups balance risk that the Group will working capital metrics, cash balances and cash ow sheet include liquidity risk, credit risk and be unable to meet its planning, coupled with funding facilities.
financial obligations when they fall due.
Credit risk refers to the With regard to trade receivables, Group policy is only risk that a counterparty to deal with counterparties with an appropriate credit will default on its rating.
Our clients are also spread across diverse obligations to the Group.
industries and geographical areas and tend to be high quality organisations.
Currency risk refers to Financial assets and liabilities are generally economically the risk that the value of hedged using forward exchange contracts, limiting assets and liabilities may transactional exposures that would give rise to currency uctuate due to changes gains and losses in the income statement.
The Group in exchange rates.
does not hedge uctuations in earnings and in the balance sheet as a result of translation of subsidiaries into the reporting currency of the Group.
