Operating and financial review Risks and uncertainties Risk is an inherent part of doing business and the Board is fully committed to identifying, evaluating, managing and monitoring signi cant risks facing the business, as described in more detail in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The main speci c risks and uncertainties relating to the business of the Group at present are as follows: Risks speci c to the business of the Group Key contracts Description Impact Mitigation The Master Franchise Agreement MFA and A large-scale refusal by existing franchisees to One of the Groups key focuses is to ensure the Know-How Agreement pursuant to which renew their franchise agreements and a related that franchisees are able to maximise the Dominos Pizza Group Ltd DPG is granted failure to nd replacement franchisees could pro tability of their stores, thereby making the right by Dominos Pizza International have a material adverse effect on the Groups the stores themselves valuable assets that the Franchising Inc. DPIF to establish and operate future results.
franchisees want to keep for the long-term.
the commissaries are the two contracts that Due to the financial attractiveness of the the Group is most dependent on.
The term of stores, franchisee demand for renewal is very the MFA continues inde nitely until all of the high indeed and through its marketing of the franchise agreements that DPG has with its brand to potential franchisees, there is a strong franchisees have not been renewed or been demand for new existing stores from potential terminated.
Franchise agreements have an franchisees.
initial term of 10 years and can be renewed at the franchisees option and the renewed franchise agreement will be subject to further renewal in accordance with the terms of the standard franchise agreement at that time.
Therefore if all of the franchisees do not renew their franchise agreements and DPG cannot nd replacement franchisees, there would eventually come a time when there are no franchise agreements in effect and therefore the term of the MFA and related Know-How Agreement would end.
The chances of this situation arising are remote as, to date, all franchisees have renewed their agreements for a further term or sell their store to another franchisee who then commences a new 10 year term.
Continued expansion Description Impact Mitigation DPGs right to grant franchises for new Dominos This would mean that although DPG would Currently the Group has signi cant headroom stores in the UK and the Republic of Ireland is continue to serve as the franchisor to all existing and if it continues opening stores at the rate of dependent on the continuation of the development stores, it would not be able to grant franchises 55 per year as it did in 2009, the full requirement term of the MFA.
The development term is a for any new Dominos stores.
An inability to of the current 10 year development term would be 10 year renewable term that was last renewed expand the business by opening new stores met in four and a half years.
The store opening with effect from 1 January 2007.
The current could have a material adverse effect on the requirement is 27 per year.
As mentioned above, development term requires DPG to increase the Groups future results.
the Group works very hard to ensure that new number of stores in the territory by 27 stores per stores are nancially attractive to existing and year over the next 10 years, from a base of 450 potential new franchisees and this is done by stores.
The ability to open the target number of securing the best sites available and continuing to stores will depend on a number of factors for invest heavily in the brand in terms of marketing example general economic conditions and the and operational excellence.
availability of adequate nancing for franchisees, some of which are beyond the Groups control.
If these targets are not met, DPG would not receive a royalty waiver which would mean that DPG would have to pay DPIF a higher annual royalty.
If DPG has failed to open and maintain the minimum number of stores or is in material breach of the MFA, then DPIF is not obliged to renew the development term.
20 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Risks speci c to the business of the Group Termination of the MFA Description Impact Mitigation The MFA may be terminated by DPIF if DPG On termination of the agreement by DPIF, DPIF The Board constantly monitors the Groups breaches the agreement, although all potential has the right to require the sale or the assignment compliance with the material terms of the MFA breaches are within the direct control of DPG.
to it of any stores or franchise agreements at their various safeguards are in place meaning that Depending on the nature of the breach, DPG fair value.
This could have a material adverse there is very little possibility of termination.
may have the right to cure the breach within an effect on the Groups future financial condition.
Major food safety scares Description Impact Mitigation The Group purchase a large range of food Consumers may refrain from purchasing the The Group has a stringent supplier assurance products from across the world.
Food is under Groups products if there is a food safety scare programme in place to ensure the products it increasing scrutiny from government-led relating to a product strongly related with pizza, purchases are safe.
Suppliers have contingency monitoring programmes around the world which is based either on scienti c findings or plans in place should their usual methods of looking at microbiological or chemical standards, media speculation.
If this consumer behaviour production or raw materials become threatened.
as well as from consumer groups.
It is possible was to continue for an extended period of time All suppliers are communicated with regularly that a food type that is a component part of and no acceptable substitute food products to ensure the business is aware of any emerging basic pizza e. g dough base, tomato sauce or were available for use by the Group, there could food safety scares.
The Group also has an cheese may become subject to a national or be a material adverse impact on the Groups ef cient communications network through which international food safety scare.
Even if the food operating results for the periods affected.
it will be able to inform franchisees about food product type the Group uses is not itself at the safety so that customers can be reassured as centre of the food scare, by association there appropriate.
may be a consumer boycott of all types of that food product.
Franchisee concentration Description Impact Mitigation Certain franchisees already individually account The financial failure of a major franchisee The Group maintains especially close working for approaching 10% of the total franchise could lead to unpaid bills for goods supplied, relationships with its largest franchisees and system, so there could be a signi cant impact unpaid royalty income and closed stores which undertakes regular business reviews to ascertain on the Group should such a franchisees business could deter banks from lending to potential their financial health and funding position.
get into financial dif culties and cease trading.
franchisees in future, all of which could have a The Group also ensures that the commissaries Alternatively, the concentration of such a large material adverse affect on the future financial continue to deliver excellent quality, service and number of stores in the hands of a very small performance of the Groups business.
The value to negate any temptation on the part number of franchisees could mean that such Groups commissary operations are a major of the largest franchisees to open their own franchisees seek to renegotiate certain elements source of its income and pro tability, therefore commissaries.
of the current franchise arrangements for example franchisees setting up their own commissaries fees and royalties or seek to open their own could have a material adverse affect on the commissaries.
Groups future results of operations and financial condition.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 21 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Operating and financial review Risks and uncertainties continued Risks speci c to the business of the Group Damage to the brand Description Impact Mitigation The Group depends, in large part, on the A franchisee could fail to operate to the required The Group provides that franchisees must adhere Dominos brand.
The vast majority of stores are standard and as a result attract adverse local to strict quality, safety and image regulations that owned and operated by franchisees who are and national publicity, which if the failings were the Group enforces through the implementation responsible for delivering the high standards of a suf ciently material nature, could lead to of training and careful monitoring, funded by of the Dominos brand to customers.
Whilst lasting damage to the brand with customers of both the franchisees and the Group, and through franchisees are required to operate within the the Groups stores choosing not to buy from store visits and frequent appraisals.
Groups standards for store operation, they Dominos again.
A material loss in sales caused are given a degree of autonomy to ensure they by brand damage could adversely affect the operate in a way that suits their local area.
Groups future results of operation and financial condition.
Commissary production issues Description Impact Mitigation One of the key functions of the Groups business There could be a material decrease in the volume The Group works in partnership with its is the manufacture of dough and the distribution of sales of the Group if there were repeated suppliers to manage the risk of any delays or of all food and packaging items used in the stores failures in the Groups dough production and interruptions in the supply chain, which may by the Groups own commissaries based in Milton distribution of food and packaging materials affect franchisees trade.
The Group has the Keynes UK, Penrith UK, and Naas Republic which prevented stores from trading for regular ability to increase production at its other facilities of Ireland.
One or more of the commissaries or prolonged periods.
if one of its commissaries has to reduce or stop could suffer an interruption to production or production for any reason and this resilience distribution caused by factors such as mechanical will be strengthened further when the new failure, re, failure of a key supplier, adverse commissary in Milton Keynes opens in the weather preventing production or deliveries or second half of 2010. staff unavailability on a large scale.
IT infrastructure Description Impact Mitigation The success of the Groups sales through If the website fails for an extended period of The Groups business continuity plan contains channels of e-commerce is highly dependent on time, there could be a material loss of resultant an IT disaster recovery plan in which every the ability of the Group to maintain operational orders and this would adversely affect sales for potential point of failure has been analysed and and ef cient IT systems in order to facilitate online the day s in question, which if this occurred on measures put in place to mitigate these risks.
sales and orders made via SMS.
Furthermore, a regular basis may adversely affect the Groups the Groups stores utilise IT systems to place business and results of operations.
A failure of delivery orders to the Groups commissary sites the Groups IT system could lead to an inability and the Group also uses the same IT systems to to accurately calculate royalty payments and for calculate the royalties payable by each of the franchisees to place food orders which could, stores.
if prolonged or repeated on a regular basis, adversely affect the financial performance of the Group.
22 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Market driven risks Detrimental economic spending consumer spending Description Impact Mitigation Changes in the general economic climate, such Higher levels of unemployment, increased taxes The Group believes that a number of prevailing as those caused by a UK and Irish recession, and general pessimism about the economic trends actually bene t the Groups business, can have a detrimental effect on consumer outlook for the future could lead to a reduction including a population with increasingly greater expenditure and therefore Group revenues.
in consumers willingness to spend disposable disposable incomes who are cash-rich and income on buying home delivery food.
This could time-poor and an increased trend of busier adversely affect the Groups business and results and more hectic lifestyles leaving less time for of operations.
The Group constantly works with its franchisees to ensure that the Dominos proposition for customers is the most compelling in the home delivery pizza market in terms of quality and value.
In terms of marketing power and therefore brand awareness, each store contributes between 4 and 5% of net sales to a national advertising fund which gives signi cant marketing spending power 19m in 2009 in a currently fide ationary media market.
Consumer relevance Description Impact Mitigation Food service businesses are affected by changes If the Group fails to anticipate and respond to a The Group recognises the link between a in consumer tastes, national, regional and change in consumer demand for home delivery balanced diet, lifestyle and health and therefore local economic conditions, local and national pizza, then this could have a material adverse provides nutritional information on its website competition and demographic trends.
Any affect on the Groups future results of operations to allow customers to make an informed choice material change in market perception of the and financial performance.
and also offer a reduced fat mozzarella cheese.
home delivery and convenience food industry, The Group works relentlessly to re ect changes or the Dominos brand in particular, could in consumer tastes and improve its offering by adversely affect the business of the Group.
In investing in price, quality and service in order to addition, increasing government and media deliver the optimum home delivery pizza service initiatives to create greater awareness of healthy to its customers.
eating could impact on the publics perception of the convenience food industry.
Regulatory risks Compliance Description Impact Mitigation The Groups operations are subject to a broad Non-compliance with legal and regulatory The Group monitors regulatory developments range of regulatory requirements, particularly requirements can lead to the imposition of fines, and has a strong training and compliance regime in relation to planning, health and safety, damage to the brand and business interruption.
to ensure all risks are identi ed and properly employment, advertising and licensing laws In certain cases, for example a material breach assessed and that relevant regulation is adhered and in terms of regulations over the Groups of Health and Safety legislation in one of the to.
A Health and Safety Committee is in place products and services.
Groups commissaries, this could lead to loss in order to oversee the operation of the Groups of life as well as signi cant damage to the numerous health and safety policies and Companys brand.
This could have a material procedures.
adverse affect on the Group, future results of operation and financial condition.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group currently deems immaterial, may also have an adverse financial effect on the financial condition or business of the Group.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 23 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Driven to deliver... socially responsible business practices with a continued focus on reducing our carbon footprint GOING FOR GOLD Over the past three years we have seen athlete numbers Since January 2007, in addition to rise from 7,000 to 8,000 and we hope that over the next Dominos corporate contributions, three years we will see a rise to 10,000 athletes with learning disabilities regularly taking part in sport through over 17,000 has been raised locally the Special Olympics programme.
Without the support of by Dominos stores to increase athlete corporate partners like Dominos, this progress would participation and support local group come to a halt.
Karen Wallin, CEO of Special Olympics GB 24 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
