BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING BUSINESS REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT VOLATILITY OF PRICING AND AVAILABILITY OF GLOBALLY The Group has a rigorous procedure TRADED RAW MATERIALS In 2008 09, the Group purchased approximately 93 million of waste for understanding and managing its paper and approximately 110 million of polymers and films as the principal raw materials in its Paper and Plastic Packaging businesses, respectively.
These products are globally traded and subject to variations in supply and demand which result in volatility in their pricing.
The Group endeavours The Group faces various risks, both internal and external, which could have to recover any raw material cost increases through good material usage a material effect on its performance.
The Groups exposure to individual programmes and through price rises.
Approximately one-third of the Groups risks is limited and diversified by the fact that it has several distinct types corrugated and plastic packaging customer contracts include arrangements to of activity, with 30 business sectors operating from over 100 sites in 18 link selling prices to an index of raw material prices.
The achievement of different countries, and it sells to a broad range of customers.
Details of price increases for the majority of our Packaging business is substantially the limited dependence of each of our segments on any one customer are determined by the state of supply and demand in the relevant market at any provided in the Description of the Group on pages 12 and 13.
Due to the variety of contractual arrangements with customers, margins commercial and other risks that are specific to a business segment are may be squeezed for a period of time until price increases are achieved to described within the narrative on that segment.
The principal Group-wide recover input cost increases.
In the present trading environment it is likely to key risks and uncertainties, as perceived in the light of present knowledge, prove more difficult to recover input cost increases through price rises.
and the way they are managed, are described below.
There are further The Groups Severnside Recycling business collects and trades waste references to the risks faced by the Group in the Financial Review on pages paper to ensure a continuous cost-competitive supply to the Groups paper 22 to 26, in the Corporate Governance section on pages 38 to 40 and in mills.
It achieves this through long-term contracts with major suppliers of the Notes to the Accounts on pages 58 to 100.
The Group seeks to mitigate waste paper and the collection of waste from smaller suppliers through its insurable risks through an insurance programme that covers property its network of collection depots.
Based on the Groups purchases of waste and liability risks where it is relevant and cost-effective to do so.
paper of approximately 93 million, a 10 per tonne increase in waste paper prices would reduce Group operating profits by 8 million.
However, CHANGES IN THE DEMAND FOR, OR PRICING OF, THE as noted above, the actual impact on future profitability would depend GROUPS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AS A RESULT OF GENERAL upon the extent to which finished goods prices are linked to input prices.
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS OR MARKET-SPECIFIC FACTORS The profitability of the Groups businesses is sensitive to the volume and Of the Groups total polymer and film purchases, polycarbonate, mix of sales and to product pricing.
Demand across the Groups markets polypropylene and high density polyethylene are the principal polymers has weakened and become less predictable as a result of the global used, with the remainder comprising a large number of different polymers economic downturn.
This has, in turn, contributed to a fall in prices in some and films.
The Group has developed a good level of expertise in polymer of the Groups markets.
In the present circumstances, management has purchasing and uses a number of suppliers to ensure it is purchasing at reduced visibility for forecasting the Groups levels of activity and margins.
In these circumstances the Groups businesses are monitoring VOLATILE AND INCREASING ENERGY PRICES sales and pricing trends in their markets especially closely.
The businesses The Groups exposure to energy costs is described on page 24 and is all have programmes in place aimed at maximising sales and managing being managed in a number of ways.
The Group is looking to maximise margins in the context of the evolving situation in their specific markets.
in-house energy generation from its combined heat and power CHP plants in the UK and France, thereby taking advantage of the greater For our paper-based packaging products, a 5% reduction in the current efficiency of the CHP process.
It is also investigating the potential for the level of overall demand across Europe could have the potential to reduce use of renewable or low-carbon energy sources, including refuse-derived future operating profits by approximately 14 million.
The Group continues to undertake a wide range of energy-saving actual impact would depend upon the specific impact of the reduction on projects aimed at increasing its energy efficiency and reducing its energy individual products and markets and upon the outcome of the actions that usage.
In 2008 09, the Group reduced its energy usage by 10% compared management would take to mitigate the effects of such a change in demand.
with 2007 08, principally due to lower activity levels across the Group.
With specific regard to our UK Paper business, based on an annual The regulatory developments in the energy market are monitored and the production of approximately 1 million tonnes, if the selling price of paper Group collaborates, when appropriate, with other higher energy users in moved by 10 per tonne, the Groups operating profit would be impacted the paper and other industry sectors to influence government on energy by circa 10 million, all other factors being equal.
The actual impact policy and the operation of energy markets.
The Group maintains a would initially be partially mitigated by a corresponding reduction in the paper costs within our corrugated packaging operations.
centralised energy-purchasing approach in the UK and France, which enables it to obtain economies of scale in buying and to apply specialist In respect of our Office Products Wholesaling business, a 1% reduction expertise.
Given the sensitivity of the Groups financial results to energy in the overall margin achieved for office products would reduce Group prices, the impact of energy costs are managed through the use of longoperating profits by circa 7 million.
term supply contracts which reduce the volatility of price movements Further information on the changes and trends in demand and pricing and the application of hedging techniques.
The Group transacts hedging relevant to our business segments is provided within the market instruments with a number of counterparties and monitors its overall commentaries in the Operating Review on pages 14 to 21. reliance and exposure against each counterparty.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 27 BUSINESS REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED A US$10 per barrel increase in global oil prices would reduce Group borrowing facilities to remain within certain covenants.
These are detailed operating profits by circa 3 million and a 10 pence per therm increase in in the Financial Review on pages 24 and 25.
In the event that a breach of UK gas prices would reduce Group operating profits by circa 3 million.
The Group has cash deposit, borrowing and transactional relationships with MOVEMENTS IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES AND a range of institutions.
The counterparty risk is carefully monitored to ensure INTEREST RATES  These risks and the way in which they are managed through the Groups ability to manage foreign exchange, energy or impinge significantly on its Treasury Committee and its subsidiary committees or groups are described borrowing facilities.
Cash deposits are held with institutions of credit rating on pages 24 and 25.
In terms of the effects of currency translation, the principal conversion rates which affect the Groups reported financial performance are sterling to the CUSTOMER CREDIT RISK euro and sterling to the US dollar.
An increase in sterlings value against Although the Group has a broad base of customers, the financial failure of the euro by 10 cents would decrease operating profits by around 3 million, one or more of the Groups key customers may have a material impact on principally due to the impact on the translation of profits in the Groups the results in a particular segment and result in a significant loss of future euro denominated operations.
This impact would be partially offset at a business.
Given the current environment we are closely monitoring credit profit before tax level by a reduction in interest costs of circa 1 million risk across our customer base.
The potential effect of the failure of any due to translation of interest costs on the Groups euro debt.
Similarly, particular Group customer is limited as no single customer represents a 10 cents increase in the value of sterling against the US dollar would more than 2% of the Groups revenue.
reduce reported operating profits by around 0.3 million and reduce interest costs by circa 0.1 million.
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE GROUPS ACTION PROGRAMME FOCUSED ON COST REDUCTION AND CASH GENERATION An overall one percentage increase in interest rates across the debt held In the light of the challenging trading conditions, the Group has implemented by the Group would increase interest costs by 1.8 million.
However, as an action programme which is described in more detail in the Chief noted on page 25, we currently have 35% of our debt placed at fixed Executives Review on pages 7 to 9.
If trading conditions were to worsen interest rates.
significantly from the currently expected level, this programme may prove not to be sufficient and it may be necessary to reduce the Groups cost base THE FUNDING POSITION OF THE GROUPS UK DEFINED further, thus incurring additional restructuring costs.
In these circumstances BENEFIT PENSION SCHEME the Groups results could be adversely affected.
The funding of the Groups UK defined benefit scheme is sensitive to a number of key factors: the value of the assets, of which 63% is invested SERIOUS BREACHES OF THE LAW OR OTHER REGULATIONS in equities and 37% in bonds, gilts and cash: the discount rate, based The Groups Key Corporate Values, which are described in more detail on the yield on high quality corporate bonds, which is used to calculate in the Corporate Responsibility Review on page 30 and are available in the schemes liabilities: and the expected mortality rate of the schemes full at www.
asp on the Groups website, members.
The funding position of the scheme has deteriorated during require all employees to comply with all relevant laws and regulations in 2008 09 as described on page 26.
The Group faces the risk that this the countries in which they operate.
The Group recognises the risk that funding position may deteriorate further over time.
The Group and the substantial fines, or other penalties, may be imposed for non-compliance schemes trustee have sought to mitigate this risk through the schemes with laws and regulations relating to competition, environmental, health investment strategy and through having increased the contributions and safety or other matters, and has control mechanisms, ongoing made to the scheme by both the members and the Group.
The regulatory programmes and systems, and special initiatives in place for monitoring environment for pension schemes and their trustees has changed in recent compliance.
It also carries out training programmes for employees and has years, in particular with the Pensions Act 2004: the presence of a deficit in systems in place to share expertise and best practice on these matters.
The a scheme may now oblige the trustee or possibly the Pensions Regulator to Group has a Workplace Malpractice Policy, and a process for employees  to report any suspected wrongdoing in confidence, that is in place across action or perceived decline in the Groups financial covenant.
The sensitivity of the funding position to the key assumptions is detailed in note 24. its international operations where such reporting is permitted by law.
THE CONTINUING AVAILABILITY OF BORROWING FACILITIES, INCREASING COSTS IN THE MEDIUM TERM RELATED TO INCLUDING COMPLIANCE WITH BORROWING COVENANTS CLIMATE CHANGE AND CARBON DIOXIDE CO EMISSIONS 2 The Groups borrowing facilities and their management through the As a result of its substantial energy usage, the Group is likely, in the Treasury Committee are described on pages 24 and 25.
The Group has medium term, to be increasingly subject to regulation and taxation of its committed facilities of 625.9 million 2007 08: 506.0 million and, as CO emissions.
The details of this and the actions being taken to reduce 2 at 30 April 2009, 346.1 million was drawn against these facilities.
The the Groups future energy usage and CO emissions are described in the 2 facilities are provided by a range of banks that typically have a credit Corporate Responsibility Review on page 35 and in the statement of the rating of BBB or greater.
The Group is required as a condition of its Groups strategy for managing its energy costs on page 24.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING PRODUCT LIABILITY The Groups packaging products, many of which are supplied into the food and beverage industries, may give rise to potentially substantial product liability claims in the event of a failure of the packaging to perform its function when in use or from contamination of the product by its packaging.
The potential for such claims is reduced by the fact that the majority of the Groups packaging is used as secondary, or transit, packaging and does not come into direct contact with the products it ultimately protects.
The Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure the safety and adequate performance levels of its packaging through design, manufacturing control processes, technical testing and other means while having appropriate product liability insurances in place.
It also looks to minimise its product liability risk through its relevant terms and conditions of trading.
OTHER SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS The Groups management of other social and environmental risks is described in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 30 to 35.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 29
