Directors Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties In the day to day operations of the Group, we face 148 million in 2009, reducing capital expenditure many risks and uncertainties.
Our job is to mitigate to a level close to depreciation makes the business and manage these risks, and the Board has developed very cash generative which, in turn reduces debt a formal risk management process to support this.
Set out below are some of the principal risks and uncertainties which we believe could adversely affect Another economic factor to consider is the price us, potentially impacting the employees, operations, of fuel, which is usually the single greatest element revenue, profits, cash ows or assets of the Group.
in the cost of running a generator.
Over the last few This list is not exhaustive there are many things years, the price of fuel has been extremely volatile, that could go wrong in an operation as large and but this does not seem to have any noticeable impact geographically diverse as ours and the list might on peoples willingness to rent: people rent generators change as something that seems immaterial today because they need power, not because it is a cheap assumes greater importance tomorrow.
The major impact on our business of the oil-price is that, at times when Economic conditions it has been high, it has produced huge wealth in There is a link in our business between demand for oil-producing countries which has been re-cycled our services and levels of economic activity: this link into infrastructure investment, which has in turn is particularly evident in the Local business.
If GDP stimulated demand for our services.
If the oil-price growth goes negative, demand for rental equipment is persistently low by which we mean under $40 is likely to shrink even faster, and this impact is per barrel we would expect to see an adverse impact likely to be multiplied by pricing weakness at times on our business in oil-producing countries.
As we have experienced in 2009, the operational gearing inherent in our business models Exchange rate uctuations can have a material impact means that variations in demand can lead to much on our performance: the Groups asset values, earnings larger variations in profitability.
We also have some and cash ows are inuenced by a wide variety of businesses which, by their nature, are exposed to currencies owing to the geographic diversity of the particular sectors for instance our Australian Groups customers and areas of operation.
The majority business is highly dependent on mining activity, our of the Groups revenue and costs are denominated Singapore business is highly dependent on shipping in US Dollars.
The relative value of currencies can activity and a large proportion of our Middle East uctuate widely and could have a material impact on business comes from construction.
the Groups asset values, costs, earnings, debt levels and cash ows.
We mitigate this risk in a number of ways.
First, having a global footprint is a great advantage because Political we can move rental eet from low-growth economies This section should be read in conjunction with the to higher-growth environments: for example, in 2008 subsequent section on failure to collect payments.
and 2009 we moved considerable quantities of eet The Group operates in circa 100 countries around the from Europe to the Middle East.
Secondly, we try world, including Africa, Asia and Central and South to ensure that, as they grow, our businesses build America.
In some jurisdictions there are significant a customer-base which is as diverse as possible, risks of political instability which can result in civil to reduce sectoral exposure.
In the Middle East, for unrest, equipment seizure, renegotiation or nullification instance, we are investing in our temperature control of existing agreements, changes in laws, taxation business which in time will reduce our relative policies or currency restrictions.
Any of these could exposure to construction: in North America we have have a damaging effect on the profitability of our special initiatives in place to develop our business in operations in a country.
Thirdly, in the event of a more generalised downturn in demand, as experienced Prior to undertaking a contract in a new country, we in 2009, we can quickly reduce capital expenditure carry out a risk assessment process to consider risks to which is demonstrated by our new eet investment our people, assets and to payments.
The safety of our being 106.7 million lower than in 2008.
Given the employees is always our first concern.
If the level of risk large depreciation element in the business cost base is considered unsatisfactory we will decline to participate Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued in any contract: where there are potential issues, To use an analogy with the management of financial we develop detailed contingency plans.
Our greatest assets, we reduce our overall risk by having a broad exposure lies in our International Power Projects portfolio of uncorrelated exposures: however, business, and they perform risk assessments on a conscious that there is a tail risk, and that it is contract-by-contract basis.
The Group uses a wide probable that at some stage we will suffer a loss, we range of tools and techniques to manage financial caution investors that the current very high returns risk, including insurances, bonds, guarantees and on capital we earn, particularly in our International cash advances.
Power Projects business are in effect risk-unadjusted, as we have so far not suffered a material loss.
Generally, we find that Governments are keen to behave in a fair way to suppliers of critical infrastructure Events such as Aggreko.
In the last three years, we have had The business is, by nature, driven by events.
People two incidents where our equipment has been seized hire generators because some event or need makes by authorities as a result of tax or import duty disputes.
Aggrekos revenues, cashows and profits Neither of these were material to a Group of our size, but can be inuenced significantly by external events as either could have been fatal to a small company.
Both evidenced in the past by hurricanes in North America are indicative of the fact that we deal in countries where or by the contracts to supply power to military camps the behaviour of the authorities can be unpredictable.
These events are, by their nature, difficult to predict and, combined with the high Failure to collect payments or to recover assets operational gearing inherent in our business, can lead The majority of the contracts the Group enters into to volatility in terms of performance.
By developing are small relative to the size of the Group and, if the business globally as well as by increasing and a customer fails to pay a debt, this is dealt with in broadening the Groups revenue base, the impact the normal course.
However, some of the contracts of a single event on the overall Group will reduce.
the Group undertakes in developing countries are Additionally, the ability to move equipment around substantial, and are in jurisdictions where payment the world allows the Group to adjust to changes in practices can be unpredictable.
The Group monitors utilisation caused by any changes in demand.
the risk profile and debtor position of all such contracts regularly, and deploys a variety of techniques to Failure to conduct business dealings mitigate the risks of delayed or non-payment: these with integrity and honesty include securing advance payments and guarantees.
Some of the countries in which the Group operates As a result of the rigorous approach to risk management, have a reputation for corruption and, given that the Group has historically had a low level of bad debt.
many of our contracts involve large sums of money, However, while the rapid growth in our International we are at risk of being accused of bribery and other Power Projects business makes it less likely that any bad unethical behaviour.
The first and most important debt would be material to the Groups balance sheet, way of avoiding this risk is to ensure that people, both the increased number of contracts and countries we inside and outside the Group, know that Aggreko operate in increases the likelihood of a loss and make does not engage in, and will not tolerate, bribery, it highly likely that at some stage a major customer will corruption or unethical behaviour.
We have a strict default on us or prevent us from repatriating assets.
Ethics Policy, a copy of which is available on our This could have a noticeable impact on earnings website www.
Rather than just publishing in a particular reporting period.
it, we get every employee to sign it when they join the business: every consultant acting on our behalf agrees in writing to abide by it, and every consultancy or agency agreement has an explicit term stating that the agreement will be terminated immediately if the consultant or agent does not abide by our policy.
30 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report The Group has a comprehensive and detailed set of Operational incidents procedures, approved by the Board, which governs the The business of the Group involves transporting, appointment of agents and sales consultants.
Before installing and operating large amounts of heavy we appoint an agent or consultant, we use specialist equipment, which produces lethal voltages or very independent investigators to conduct comprehensive high pressure air, and involves the use of millions background checks on them: these checks include of litres of fuel which could cause serious damage obtaining bank references and searches for previous to the environment.
Every day, we manage the risks records of inappropriate behaviour or of any family associated with this business, and we have carefully or other links with the customer.
Payments made designed procedures to minimise the risk of an to agents and sales consultants are subject to audit accident.
However, if these procedures are not by both internal and external auditors to ensure they followed, accidents can happen and might result are in accordance with the agreements, and we have in injury to people, claims against the Group, and a full-time Compliance Officer who continuously damage to its reputation and its chances of winning monitors our dealings with sales consultants and and retaining contracts.
In addition, we carry out regular training by outside lawyers of managers and salespeople who deal The Group has a proactive operational culture that in at-risk jurisdictions, and we also conduct in depth puts health and safety at the top of its agenda in order reviews of contract files.
to reduce the likelihood of an accident.
We work very closely with our customers, employees and Health & Acquisitions Safety authorities, to evaluate and assess major risks to It is part of our strategy to acquire businesses in our ensure that health and safety procedures are rigorously core market which can add value to Aggreko.
The Group has developed health and safety last six years, we have acquired three small businesses KPIs which are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
the temperature control business of Prime Energy in the USA, the assets and business of Power Plus Competition Rentals & Sales Ltd in Canada, the power rental Aggreko operates in a highly competitive business.
business of Cummins, India and one large global The barriers to entry are low, particularly in the Local business GE Energy Rentals.
We are well aware business and, in every major market in which we that buying businesses can be risky: in our business, operate, competitors are constantly entering or leaving the greatest areas of risk are: the market.
We welcome this competition as it keeps us sharp and also helps to grow the overall rental market over-paying: which, in many countries, is under-developed.
acquiring liabilities we do not know about We monitor competitor activity carefully, but or understand: and ultimately our only protection from suffering material damage to our business by competitors is to work failing to integrate effectively.
relentlessly to provide our customers with a high quality and differentiated service proposition at a price that We mitigate these risks by having a rigorous they believe provides good value.
acquisition process, which is overseen by the Board.
All acquisitions are subject to detailed financial modelling, using different scenarios, so we can understand the likely returns in various circumstances.
We undertake detailed due diligence, particularly on the operational side, and we look for extensive warranties and covenants from vendors.
Finally, we have a well-developed and effective acquisition integration model as demonstrated by the success of the GE ER integration.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Product technology and emissions regulation People The majority of Aggrekos eet is diesel-powered, and Aggreko knows that it is people that make the some of our equipment is over ten years old.
As part of difference between great performance and mediocre the increasing focus on environmental issues, countries performance.
This is true at all levels within the continue to introduce legislation related to permissible business.
We are keenly aware of the need to attract levels of emissions and this has the potential to affect the right people, establish them in their roles and our business.
Our engines are sourced from major manage their development.
As a framework for people manufacturers who, in turn, have to develop products development, we have in place a talent management which conform to legislation, so we are dependent on programme which covers most of the management them being able to respond to legislation.
Under this programme, we try to identify to be aware that when we buy a generator, we want the development needs of each individual from the to be able to rent it for its useful life and to be able outset, as well as identifying successor candidates to move it between countries.
We have also worked with one of the worlds leading business schools to develop To mitigate these risks, we adopt a number of strategies.
and deliver a tailor-made group wide management First, we retain considerable in-house expertise on education programme.
engine technology and emissions so we have a good understanding of these issues.
Secondly, we have very Another risk is that competitors seek to recruit our close relationships with engine manufacturers, so we get key personnel.
For many years, Aggreko has been a good forward visibility of their product development target for recruitment and we manage this on a daily pipeline.
And when new products appear particularly basis.
We actually regard it as a compliment that so those with improved emissions performance we try many companies want to recruit our people.
The main to introduce them into the eet as quickly as possible, mitigation for this is to make sure that people enjoy to ensure that over time our eet evolves to ever-better working for Aggreko, that they feel that they are levels of emissions performance.
An example of this recognised, cared for, and have challenging and is the significant investment we have made in the interesting jobs.
Reward is also an important part of development of our gas-fuelled technology: these the equation, and there can be little doubt that our engines have significantly reduced emissions compared policy of rewarding people well for good performance, with other fuel types.
Thirdly, if emissions-compliance and of having a successful Long-term Incentive Plan, becomes such an issue that it begins to impact our has acted as a powerful retention tool.
business in a material way in some territories, our global footprint will be a major advantage as it gives Information technology us numerous options for the re-deployment of our eet.
Our business involves high transaction volumes, complex logistics, and the need to track thousands of assets on hundreds of sites.
We are therefore heavily dependent on the resilience of both the application software we use an ERP system called Movex and of the data-processing and network infrastructure.
A serious failure in this area would immediately and materially affect our business.
The Group has a detailed disaster recovery plan in place which is tested on a regular basis.
Our main data centre in Glasgow has high levels of resilience built into it, and we also have a physically separate thirdparty disaster-recovery site.
Additionally, we now have a second data centre operational in Dubai which will allow the Group to continue processing data in the event of a major incident.
32 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report Investor relations and market abuse Liquidity The Groups reputation and or share price could suffer The nature of our business model is that, in periods due to inappropriate or inadequate engagement with of growth, we consume cash: this is because we can investors.
For example, we might fail to communicate only grow by increasing the rate of investment in eet consistent, co-ordinated messages to investors or fail assets beyond the rate of depreciation.
Conversely, in to provide adequate information on performance and periods of weaker demand, we would normally hold events in the business.
Since, inevitably, management back eet investment, at which point the business will is in possession of market-sensitive information from become highly cash-generative.
Another feature of time to time, the business is at risk from market abuse our business is that we are rich in tangible assets, and insider dealing.
which means that financial institutions are happy to lend to us on competitive terms.
By financing Our approach to this is to recognise that investors have increases in eet through debt, we enhance the legitimate interests in the Groups business, and that returns we make on shareholders equity.
shareholder value will be enhanced by timely, clear, open, honest and transparent communication with The availability of bank finance at competitive rates markets and investors.
Accordingly, the Groups is therefore an important element in our ability to grow Chief Executive and Finance Director co-ordinate the Groups revenues without recourse to shareholders.
all communications with markets and investors, and Being of a generally conservative disposition, the Group controls are in place to make sure that all Group has a policy of keeping a wide margin of safety between communication corporate, regional and local is forecast financing requirements and committed debt consistent and co-ordinated.
The Group also applies very facilities: at 31 December 2009, Aggreko had interest clear rules to prevent market abuse and insider dealing.
cover of 23x on an EBITDA basis and net debt to EDITDA of 0.4x.
Net debt was 175.5 million Accounting and treasury major fraud with committed bank facilities of 524.1 million.
There is a risk that fraud or accounting discrepancies The maturity profile of the borrowings is detailed may occur if the financial and operational control in Note 17 in the Annual Report and Accounts with framework is inadequate.
This may distort the the next significant maturity not due until September reported results.
In order to mitigate this risk, 2011.
Since the year end the Group has reduced significant work has been undertaken to put in place committed facilities by 70.8 million to 453.3 million a robust control framework.
Additionally, a strong and the facilities now in place are currently anticipated Internal Audit function reviews the operation of this to be ample for meeting the Groups requirements control framework and reports regularly to the Audit over the period until the next refinancing.
The risk is also mitigated by recruiting and developing a strong finance function which is focussed on ensuring the accuracy and integrity of the reported results.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33
