ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 14 Business Review Risk Management Introduction The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of Risk Management and Internal Control and for reviewing their effectiveness in operation.
Further details are presented in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 48 to 50.
Effective systems of Internal Control: play a key role in the management of risks that are significant to the fulfilment of the Groups business objectives: contribute to safeguarding the shareholders interests and the Groups assets: facilitate the effectiveness and efficiency of operations: help ensure the reliability of internal and external reporting: and assist compliance with laws and regulations.
Key business risks and the responses by executive management This section sets out the key business risks being faced by the Group.
Key business risks are those risks which have a high overall impact and likelihood risk rating in terms of the potential to adversely affect the Groups ability to achieve its objectives.
This section also includes a description of the ways in which executive management have responded to these risks.
Risks to the achievement of strategic objectives Slowdown in the growth of the economies of key customers The Groups sales of products from some divisions continue to be predominantly to customers based in Russia and China, as set out in the table below.
Percentage of Divisional Sales Revenue Russia China Years ended 31 December Years ended 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 Ferroalloys 17.3 20.4 29.3 11.2 Iron Ore 52.7 64.0 44.4 29.1 Alumina and Aluminium 64.0 62.4 Russia real GDP growth Source: Economist Intelligence Unit 10 8 6 4 2 0 2 4 6 8 10 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 China real GDP growth Source: Economist Intelligence Unit 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 The GDP of the Russian economy contracted by about 8% in 2009 as a whole but grew in the last two quarters of the year.
In 2010 growth is expected to be around 3%.
The Chinese economy sustained a high rate of GDP growth in 2009 of almost 9%.
A number of forecasters believe that broadly this level of growth can be maintained for the medium term.
The significant slowdown in the global economy as a whole and the consequential impact on the export-led growth of the economies Percentage Percentage ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 15 with which the Group trades brought about a decrease in demand These risks are most relevant in relation to Kazakhstan, which for the Groups products and also created downward pressure on continues to be the Groups principal country of operation, but sales prices.
The Group, however, was able to leverage its also, to a lesser extent, Russia, China and the DRC.
geographic proximity to the growth market of China and in so doing In addition, any increased requirements relating to regulatory, mitigate the impact of the economic global slowdown as can be environmental and social approvals, in countries in which the Group seen in the preceding table which shows an increased proportion of has mining or production activities, could result in significant delays sales to China in 2009.
Market conditions progressively improved in the construction of new investment projects, and may adversely throughout 2009 and are now much better than those experienced impact the economics of those projects, the expansion of existing at the beginning of the year.
operations and the financial results of the Groups operations.
Our confidence in the outlook for ENRC in 2010 is considerably Response to country risks stronger in relation to both the sustainability of growth in Chinese Senior management of the Groups operations in Kazakhstan are domestic demand, and to the growth prospects of the mature engaged in an active dialogue with the Government of the Republic economies of Japan, Europe and the USA.
We believe that there will of Kazakhstan and with local authorities in many regions and towns continue to be commodity price volatility as a result of within Kazakhstan, as well as directly with the Groups workforce, to high levels of economic uncertainty and concern about the overall fully reflect the Groups responsibilities to these stakeholders.
The medium to longer term fundamentals for commodities remain strong and the outlook is for China and The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan is also a significant the emerging economies to be the leaders on the road to shareholder in the Group and two representatives of the Government sustainable recovery.
are non-executive Directors and attend Board meetings.
Response to the slowdown in the growth of the economies of key Through these different types of engagement with the Government customers of the Republic of Kazakhstan the Group is able to anticipate likely Management responded rapidly and decisively to the severe changes in regulations and to put in place plans to respond to reduction in demand for the Groups products in late 2008 and early changes whenever they may arise.
2009 by: In DRC the management of the Groups businesses have met with cutting ferroalloys, iron ore and energy production to match key Government officials at both national and regional level, customer demand: including those responsible for mining.
Management plan to reducing inventories and actively concentrating on receivables: establish effective working relationships with these officials and re-evaluating capital expenditure: and keep them informed about our plans for investment and for the focusing on the control of costs in the face of significant pressure development of the businesses.
These relationships are going to be on product prices.
based on a mutual desire to improve the economy of the countries whilst at the same time developing the natural resources Progressively during 2009 management was able to advance opportunities which are available in the areas to the benefit of the production levels across those businesses and by the end of local communities and the Group.
2009 production had been restored to approximately full Integration of acquired businesses available capacity.
Some of our future growth will stem from acquisitions.
There are numerous risks which may be encountered in business We remain positive on the mediumand long-term growth prospects combinations, and we may not be able to successfully integrate for the metal-intensive and export growth of the Chinese and acquired businesses which could negatively impact our financial Russian economies, with the particular benefit to ENRC of its condition and results of operations.
In addition there is significant sustained growth in the demand for industrial metals elsewhere in the industrialising Response to risks in the integration of acquired businesses world which, as with China and Russia, is based on their The Group has formed a Mergers and Acquisitions Committee, demographics, urbanisation and infrastructure requirements.
The which is a sub-committee of the Board, to oversee all acquisition prospects for ENRC in all of these markets are enhanced by activity including the agreement of acquisition targets, setting structural capacity shortages, notably in China, and supply policies for due diligence activity and overseeing the process of due constraints that are expected to emerge with a global economic diligence, acquisition and subsequent integration into the Group.
The Group, with its tier one assets and the advantage of The committee has received delegated authority from the Board to low cost production, is well positioned to seize opportunities in finalise and execute acquisitions following Board approval.
The China and Russia and elsewhere in the world whilst benefiting from committee is chaired by an independent non-executive Director and the progressive improvement in the stability of its long-term contract includes two other non-executive members of the Board.
The Group also increased the number, seniority and experience of Country risks the in-house mergers and acquisitions team during 2009 and The Groups businesses could be adversely affected by any new continues to employ external advice to supplement the in-house regulations which are introduced by the Governments of the key expertise.
A strategic projects finance team has also been countries in which the Group operates and trades, such as: established in London.
For each acquisition which the Group has made and for all prospective acquisitions a member of the Groups controls on imports, exports and sales prices: senior management team is appointed to take responsibility for the terms of mining and other licences: integration of the acquired business.
restrictions on foreign ownership of assets: restrictions on the remittance of funds: and The Group has gained valuable experience in the acquisition and new forms or rates of taxation, duties and royalties.
ongoing integration of CAMEC and this will be applied to all future acquisitions, including Chambishi.
Many of the management team involved in the ongoing CAMEC integration will also be responsible for the delivery of the Chambishi integration plan.
CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 16 Business Review Risk Management continued CAMEC acquisition the resources required to complete the project may not be The Group acquired CAMEC in November 2009.
CAMEC operates available in the right volume or at the right quality or price: principally in the DRC, where it mines copper and cobalt and the implementation of the project may prove to be more complex processes the ore in a company in which the State owned or technically difficult than originally envisaged and, in extreme Gcamines is a minority 30% partner.
cases, may not be possible to complete: and the project may be completed but may be delivered late and or at The assimilation and integration of acquired businesses requires a significantly higher cost than planned.
significant time and effort on the part of the Groups senior management.
Integration of new businesses, particularly in Response to capital project risks emerging markets, can be difficult, and potential problems may The Group has adopted policies and procedures which need to be include, but would not be limited to: applied before a capital project may obtain approval to proceed.
In particular the technical and economic aspects of each significant Compliance with local and international regulations: project are subject to a detailed feasibility review and those projects Harmonisation of corporate culture differences: that pass this review are then subject to further assessment by Alignment of HR policies and remuneration bases: management.
Operating in a new geographical environment and in new commodity markets: All existing projects are subject to scrutiny by management at a Roll-out of financial reporting procedures and unification of quarterly review meeting to ensure that the bases and assumptions, accounting policies: on which the project was originally approved, continue to hold.
Controlling acquired assets: and The Group has recently re-evaluated both expansionary and Dealing with legacy issues.
sustaining projects, as described in the section on Capital Expenditure on pages 34 to 35.
Response to risks in the integration and management of the CAMEC businesses The Group has engaged external advisors to assist in the The Group has engaged a Chief Executive Officer for ENRC in development of an effective investment appraisal methodology which Africa, with extensive experience of mining in Africa, to manage the will include a systematic way of assessing the potential future value integration of Camec.
He is being supported by a senior member of of each proposed project against alternative uses of the funding.
the Groups Mergers and Acquisitions team who was involved in the due diligence process prior to acquisition.
Risks to the achievement of operational objectives Maintaining cost competitiveness Human resource talent pool Information on the unit costs of the Groups divisions in the years The Groups growth and future success depend significantly upon its ended 31 December 2008 and 2009 is set out in the Financial continued ability to attract, retain and motivate employees and key Review on pages 29 to 35. members of management and to adequately resource a wide range In Q4 2008 the Group significantly reduced production volumes, of development projects.
Failure to adequately maintain the quality of notably in the Ferroalloys and Iron Ore Divisions, to a level which the Groups Human Resource pool could have an adverse impact on was consistent with expectations of sales.
Capacity utilisation was those projects or on existing operations.
Despite the recent volatility progressively restored through 2009.
By Q4 2009, production in commodity prices and consequential impact on growth prospects volumes in the Ferroalloys and Iron Ore Divisions in Kazakhstan had in the industry there still exists an increasing demand for skilled been restored to effectively full available capacity.
personnel and contractors across a range of disciplines.
Response to human resource talent pool risks Quarterly movements in production volumes in 2008 09 We have continued to provide stimulating and challenging HC FeCr opportunities for all employees and this is attractive for both existing 350 300 and prospective employees.
The Group is committed to the 250 recruitment of experienced staff across the Group, in London, 200 150 Africa, Kazakhstan and in other countries in which the Group 100 operates.
In Kazakhstan the Group has developed a Succession 50 Planning policy, a Talent Management Programme as well as 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 planning to develop a Corporate Health Management Roadmap in 2007 2007 2007 2007 2008 2008 2008 2008 2009 2009 2009 2009 2010.
Further details of the Groups commitment to the welfare, Cr Ore 1,200 health and personal development of its employees is set out in detail 1,000 in the Sustainability Review on pages 36 to 40.
800 600 Capital projects 400 The Groups mining operations are capital intensive.
The 200 development and exploitation of mineral reserves and the acquisition 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 of machinery and equipment require substantial capital expenditure.
2007 2007 2007 2007 2008 2008 2008 2008 2009 2009 2009 2009 Capital projects are subject to a number of risks: Iron ore 5,000 4,500 the project, whilst meeting the Groups hurdle rate for investment, 4,000 3,500 may not be the most appropriate way to increase shareholder 3,000 2,500 value: 2,000 1,500 the assumptions about future commodity prices, on which the 1,000 500 economic case for the investment was based, may prove to be 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 too optimistic: 2007 2007 2007 2007 2008 2008 2008 2008 2009 2009 2009 2009 planned funding for the project may not be available when required: t000 t000 t000 ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 17 Alumina In addition the Group engaged Boston Consulting Group during 500 2009 to carry out a wide ranging review of the Groups procurement 480 460 procedures and to make recommendations for improvements.
These 440 420 recommendations, and a re-emphasis of the need to improve 400 380 managements monitoring of compliance with the implementation of 360 340 the Group Procurement procedures, will be the subject of training 320 300 workshops in Kazakhstan during 2010.
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2007 2007 2007 2007 2008 2008 2008 2008 2009 2009 2009 2009 Aluminium Unexpected natural and operational catastrophes 40 Our operational processes and locations may be subject to 35 operational accidents.
Our operations may also be subject to 30 25 unexpected natural catastrophes such as earthquakes and flooding.
20 Existing insurance arrangements may not provide cover for all of the 15 10 costs that may arise from such events.
The impact of these events 5 0 could lead to disruptions in production and loss of facilities Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2008 2008 2008 2008 2009 2009 2009 2009 adversely affecting our financial results.
These changes in production volumes led, in the early parts of 2009, Response to the risk of unexpected natural and operational to increased operating costs per tonne of product at existing catastrophes operations, as well as impacting the costs and schedules of We commissioned external consultants to complete a detailed investment projects.
review of the adequacy of the Groups insurance cover in Kazakhstan in terms of the value of insurable assets and also to Whilst reduced production volumes during 2008 and 2009 were a undertake risk surveys of our Kazakhstani operations and advise on specific risk to the Groups ability to operate a cost competitive the implementation of more effective contingency plans to mitigate business there continue to be other operational risks to the Groups the potential impact of these risks.
ability to maintain its cost advantage over competitors.
In August 2009 the Group improved the insurance coverage and The Group acquires a significant amount of goods and services from policy limits of the Groups Kazakhstani assets, in advance of the suppliers, contractors and other third parties for operational and receipt of the reports from the external consultants.
In March 2010 capital expenditure purposes.
In making these acquisitions the the Group implemented a new insurance programme based on Group has the risk that goods or services may not be acquired on significantly enhanced assets values, coverage and terms.
the most economical terms from suppliers and contractors.
During 2010 the Groups operations will respond to the Response to the risk of maintaining cost competitiveness recommendations made by consultants in the risk surveys and the The Groups businesses remain relatively low cost typically terms of the new insurance programme will be extended to the occupying the lower third of the cost curve.
This remains a key Groups operations outside Kazakhstan.
advantage that we are focused on maintaining and, where possible, reinforcing, through the downturn and beyond.
Crucial to our Risks to the achievement of compliance objectives success is that our businesses remain underpinned by the security The Group is subject to laws and regulations in all the jurisdictions in of our logistics and low cost energy supply.
which it operates and is committed to ensuring effective compliance with all its obligations: further details on the Groups approach to During 2009 the Group experienced a reduction in raw material input compliance is set out in the Corporate Governance section on pages costs and many other costs of production and distribution, part of 41 to 56. which related to the approximately 25% devaluation of the tenge against the US dollar in February 2009.
In addition the Group Health, safety, environmental exposure and regulations entered into constructive discussions with employees to avoid The nature of the industry in which we operate means our activities compulsory redundancies but offset this by securing agreements on are highly regulated by health, safety and environmental laws.
As greater labour flexibility in terms of reduced working hours and lower regulatory standards and expectations are constantly developing, levels of remuneration.
As production returned to near-capacity we may be exposed to increased compliance costs and unforeseen levels, employment conditions were restored to pre-crisis levels.
During 2009 domestic consumer price inflation CPI in Kazakhstan Response to risks related to health, safety, environmental was 6.2%.
Whilst the Groups businesses remain relatively low cost, exposure and regulations cost control, and thus competitiveness, continues to be an area of This is covered in the Sustainability Review which is set out on great importance for the Group and one which will continue to be the pages 36 to 40. subject of significant management focus throughout 2010.
Taxation The Audit Committee have formally approved a manual of Group The Group is subject to taxation in the jurisdictions in which it Procurement policies which formalise earlier locally developed operates.
There are inherent risks associated with the complexities Policy Documents and control procedures to mitigate the risk of of tax laws and regulations, potential differences in interpretation of uneconomic procurement.
These policies and procedures were the applicable legislation and continuous changes to tax laws and rolled out to relevant employees in Kazakhstan and Russia during regimes.
Cross border transactions also represent inherent risks as 2009 and will be rolled out in Africa in 2010. a result of being subject to different national tax rules which are not necessarily harmonised.
An example of such inherent risk exposure is cross-border inter company transfer pricing.
t000 t000 CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 18 Business Review Risk Management continued Response to taxation risks The Group management is committed to ensuring compliance with the tax requirements in every jurisdiction in which the Group operates and to both minimising and managing risks associated with taxation.
The Group is also committed to building and maintaining good and constructive working relationships with the tax authorities in all countries in which the Group is subject to taxation.
In order to facilitate this approach the Group is developing its in-house team and seeking the advice of independent external consultants in complex and specialist areas.
From November 2009 the Group will also generate revenue from sales of copper and cobalt as a result of the acquisition of CAMEC and Chambishi.
Historically, the prices for these products have been volatile and have fluctuated widely in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty, the performance of the global or regional economies and cyclicality in industries that purchase these products.
This was particularly evident in the last quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009 when prices fell substantially.
At the peak price in mid 2008 HC FeCr was selling at a benchmark price of US$2.04 per lb of chrome but then fell as low as US$0.69 per lb of chrome in the second quarter of 2009 before recovering to US$1.03 per lb of chrome in the fourth quarter of 2009.
These external factors and the volatility of the commodity markets make it difficult to estimate future prices.
A substantial or extended decline in commodity prices would materially and adversely affect the Groups business and the financial results and cash flows of operations.
However, the cost base of the ferroalloy industry has systematically increased as a result of increased energy and reductant costs whilst also suffering from the impact of currency appreciation.
This has meant that the Group, due to its low cost base and integrated structure, is in an advantageous position relative to its peers.
$ per tonne $ per tonne $ per tonne $ per tonne $ per tonne ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 19 Response to commodity price risks A consolidated counterparty exposure report is recalculated on a The Group monitors market prices, global sales volumes and internal weekly basis and a monthly report is produced by the Group levels of inventory of key commodities to help inform production and Treasurer for review by the Chief Financial Officer and is also sales planning decisions and avoid surplus inventory.
included in the Treasury report for each Board meeting.
The management of the Sales and Marketing business produce Foreign exchange rate exposure regular forecasts of the sales volumes and prices for each of the The presentational currency of the Group is the US dollar and the Groups commodities and discuss and agree appropriate production majority of sales are US dollar denominated.
However, significant and distribution plans with the management of the Groups operating costs which are incurred in Kazakhstan are denominated in the companies on a regular basis in order to optimise revenue and meet Kazakhstani tenge and the Group has operational exposures to customer needs.
The Group does not hedge its exposure to the risk of fluctuations in Response to foreign exchange rate risks the prices of its commodity products.
The Group considers the exposure to the Kazakhstani tenge to be an ongoing economic risk.
Although there were hedges in place in Credit default of key customers 2009 that were transacted in 2007, the Group is not currently The impact of the current economic downturn has been to place entering into new contracts to actively hedge this exposure.
increased financial pressure on the Groups customers and on their Management review economic exposures on a regular basis.
ability to pay amounts due to the Group in accordance with agreed terms of trade.
At the same time the Groups traditional markets for obtaining credit insurance have significantly reduced.
With a high concentration of sales to a small number of customers in our main divisions this is a significant risk for us.
Response to the risk of a credit default by key customers The Groups response to the risk of a credit default by key customers has been to: maintain close relationships with all its key customers but also to develop new customer relationships in Russia, China and elsewhere to diversify customer default risk: obtain credit insurance, where insurance cover is available, or letters of credit against the risk of default by major customers: review credit limits and payment terms for all major customers: and regularly monitor compliance with these terms and report periodically to the Chief Financial Officer on any developments in the amounts receivable from customers and average days outstanding.
Financial counterparty default At 31 December 2009 the amounts invested with financial institutions were US$1,006 million.
In making these investments the Group runs the risk that a counterparty may default on the repayment of the invested funds when they fall due.
A number of financial institutions have been in default since the start of the global financial crisis but the Group had no exposure to these institutions and has not made any losses from its dealings with financial counterparties.
Response to financial counterparty default risk To minimise the risk of the default of a financial counterparty with which the Group has invested funds strict criteria for investment have been adopted and were approved by the Board in December 2008.
Investments may only be made with counterparties which are included on our Permitted Investment list.
Individual counterparty exposure limits are based on published credit ratings or where these are not available, by an internal assessment of the counterpartys financial strength.
On a regular basis the Group Treasury Committee reviews the credit ratings of all approved counterparties and may propose adjustments to the maximum credit limits.
Any changes to credit limits require the approval of the Chief Financial Officer.
CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW
