Business review Risks and uncertainties Experian identifies a number of risks to its business activities which it seeks to anticipate, assess regularly and over which it seeks to introduce internal controls to ensure that such risks are appropriately mitigated.
The corporate governance statement contained in this report provides further detail on this enterprise risk management process.
Risks to Experians business are Technology People either specific to Experians business There could be security breaches Experian is dependent upon highly model, such as information security, of Experians systems or facilities skilled personnel, especially its or more general, such as the impact senior management and other of competition.
Experian has identified Experians data centres are protected experienced staff the following principal risks.
against computer viruses or other purposeful attacks, such as physical Loss of these people could have an Data break-ins or hacking.
To mitigate the adverse effect on the Groups ability The data that Experian holds may risk from insecure systems, Experian to deliver its corporate objectives.
be inappropriately used has strict standards, procedures Experian aims to provide compensation and training schemes for technology and benefits that are competitive with Experian has established rigorous services, physical security and other leading companies, as well as information security policies, information security.
standards, procedures, and recruitment and training schemes, Business processes or systems which are embedded throughout its could fail business operations.
Experian also screens new third party partners Failures to plan, resource, test or carefully and conducts targeted adequately respond to major incidents audits on their operations.
The loss could put Experian at risk of breaching and or potential misuse of consumer client contracts and services levels, data is addressed through continued loss of revenue and reputation damage.
investment in IT security infrastructure, Experians data centres are protected including the significant use of data against damage from fire, power loss, and communications encryption telecommunications failure, natural technology.
disaster, and hardware or software malfunction.
Experian maintains Legislation or government full duplication of all information regulations may alter what data contained in databases and runs backExperian can collect and how it up data centres.
The Group also has is collected established support arrangements with third party vendors and strict To the best of Experians knowledge, standards, procedures and training the Group is in compliance with schemes for business continuity.
data protection requirements in the Whilst the probability of disaster jurisdictions in which it operates.
events occurring is generally low, the Experian actively monitors its geographic diversity of the business collection and use of personal data, means that Experian is in a position to while the Groups legal, regulatory and respond effectively to both larger and government affairs departments work smaller scale incidents.
closely with senior management to adopt strategies to educate lawmakers and influence the public policy debate, where appropriate.
28 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 7 Risks and uncertainties 44 72 73 148 Experian is dependent upon highly skilled personnel, especially its senior management and other experienced staff General economy Other risks Experian could fail to protect Macro economic factors impact Experian could face increased adequately against its exposure to the demand for customer credit competition, especially in the credit financial risks in particular reporting industry Experians financial risk management Experian could be adversely affected Experian mitigates this risk through focuses on the unpredictability by worsening economic conditions continued research and investment in of financial markets and seeks to globally or in certain individual markets people, technology and products as minimise potential adverse effects on such as the United Kingdom or United prioritised by its strategic plan.
However, prudent expense management along with the breadth of Acquisitions may not meet Counterparties could fail Experians portfolio by geography, by expectations product, by sector and by client partly Counterparty risk is a new principal reduces the impact of this risk.
Experian assesses all acquisitions risk.
Experians ability to engage rigorously, using both in-house in routine transactions to fund its Consolidation among Experians experts and professional advisers.
In operations and manage its risks clients may cause price addition, the Group conducts extensive could be adversely affected by compression and a reduction post-acquisition reviews to ensure the commercial soundness of our in its revenue and profits performance remains consistent with counterparties.
We continue to the acquisition buy-plan.
monitor counterparty positions No single client accounts for more regularly.
Treasury and insurance than 2% of Experians revenue, which The outcome of litigation could be activities are conducted only with reduces the probability of this potential unfavourable to Experian financial and insurance institutions risk having a significant impact on with strong credit ratings, within limits the business.
However, in light of the Experian carries insurance and set for each organisation.
global economic downturn, Experian employs expert legal personnel incontinues to respond with a wide house, as well as retaining the services range of countercyclical products and of several leading legal practices, to solutions, across all relevant business assist in the effective management and lines.
Experian could fail to protect adequately its valuable intellectual property rights or face claims for intellectual property right infringement Experian seeks patent protection and appropriate agreements regarding its intellectual property rights, where appropriate and feasible, and continues to monitor this situation.
