Assessing business impacts How we manage the risks Identification and mitigation of risk is at the heart of our business.
Effective management of the risks identified in our matrix is integral to delivering our goals.
The Group Risk and Insurance Manager prepares a risk matrix of the risks to the business based on a review by Senior Management.
This matrix is considered by the members of the General Management Board and then presented to the Audit Committee for review.
Inevitably, there are many risks which remain on the list for some time but there are other risk items which are added or deleted from year to year.
As a case in point, in 2009, the potential of a swine flu pandemic was added to the list whereas bank financing was placed much further down the risk matrix.
Each risk identified is given a score in terms of its significance, the likelihood of it occurring, the impact of the risk and the effectiveness of control of that risk, all of which culminate in an overall risk exposure which is measured High, Medium or Low.
The Risk Monitoring and Control Review is carried out annually.
As stated on page 24 of the report, the key business risks affecting the Group are considered to relate to the retail and property markets and the current global economic environment.
The higher level risks are shown in the table opposite: Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 Mitigation Commentary Broad spread of business in many No significant bad debts Business Risk different commodities: regular experienced in 2009.
Assistance Review of risks associated with period given to customers to help them dialogue with major customers of recession through loss of a at senior level: close control manage their business.
Increased significant customer or significant review of outstanding debtors: over outstanding debtor position reduction in volumes from customers.
sharing of market information with cash collection.
customers: responding promptly to changes in circumstances.
Reduction in overall percentage The potential effects of relatively Pension Scheme Funding of assets held in equities.
Regular small changes in the major The Group operates a Defined Benefit review of Fund Managers assumptions can be significant.
Pension Scheme for most of its performances.
Life expectancy The next Actuarial Review takes employees.
The greatest risks are increased after last Actuarial place in April 2011. referred to on page 28 but include the Valuation.
Increased contribution effects of an increase or decrease in by Company and Members to the discount rate used, the inflation the Scheme.
Through membership of the United The workload in this area has Governmental and Kingdom Major Ports Group we been significant in 2009 with Regulatory Relationships receive advance notice of UK and the Scottish Marine Bill and the With the increasing level and European Legislation which may Carbon Reduction Commitment complexity of new legislation whether it affect the ports business.
We have legislation requiring extensive be from Europe, the UK or the Scottish good in-house expertise in many time commitments.
areas including health and safety, Government, we need to be in a position to respond to matters which environment and marine matters who can be called upon to advise affect our business.
on their own areas of expertise.
We also employ external specialists, where necessary, if the in-house expertise is not available.
Limit infrastructure spend to those Progress can and is being made Property Valuation costs which have to be incurred where in discussions with the planning Following the dramatic fall in property we have a legal obligation to fulfil.
authorities to obtain planning prices in 2008, reviewing infrastructure Look for ways in which, at relatively approvals for our developments spend to match spend with potential low spend, value can be created, if not based on a recognition of current increase in value of the assets.
immediately, then for the longer term economic and financial e. g. reappraise property developments circumstances as opposed to those and close off planning discussions which pertained two years ago.
where it is sensible to do so.
Intensive control of costs in 2009.
Close review of financial Refinancing for the Group concluded Bank Funding and in 2008.
Programme of cost control projections to draw attention to any Financial Covenants possible pinch points on funding or intensified in 2009.
Deliberate Requirement to stay within agreed reduction in capital spend in 2009. covenants.
Liaising closely with the banks and level of banking facilities and to meet financial covenants.
keeping them fully advised of the Groups performance throughout the year.
65 acres of land purchased in 2008 Close liaison with the relevant Ability to Expand at Tilbury just outside the Port of Tilbury.
planning authorities has resulted in Looking to the medium and long-term, support for a change of use to allow we require additional land for port port related industrial use on the related operations.
