MANAGING OUR RISKS An intensive exploration programme helps replenish reserves 60 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT Risk management is vital to meeting our objectives and creating sustainable value.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risk is effectively managed across the Fresnillo Group, while the efcacy of the internal control system is monitored by the Audit Committee.
The day-to-day responsibility for managing risk and maintaining the Groups system of internal control lies with the Executive Committee, which is supported in this task by the Internal Audit department.
Fresnillos risk assessment process is dynamic and ongoing: as the macro environment changes, countryand industry-specic circumstances evolve, and our own internal processes become more institutionalised, new risks may arise and others recede.
Similarly, the ranking of these risks WVhZY dc egdWVW a in VcY hZkZg in bVn jXijViZ# For the 2009 assessment, the Companys executives and operations managers identied a universe of more than 100 risks through a survey conducted by the Internal Audit team.
From these, senior management cVggdlZY Ydlc i]Z ide & !
l] X] gZZXi i]Z ZbZg ZcXZ d[ cZl g h`h since the IPO, changes in the impact and or likelihood of existing risks, and those risks requiring careful monitoring and reinforced controls.
Management will continue to rene the processes for monitoring, measuring and reporting risk over the course of 2010.
Further information on the Fresnillo Groups risk management processes and internal controls are found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 72 to 77.
1 RISK STRATEGY 2 RISK & OBJECTIVES IDENTIFICATION & PRIORITISATION 6 CONTINUOUS 3 RISK MONITORING ASSESSMENT & QUANTIFICATION 5 RISK RESPONSE 4 RISK RESPONSE IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY 61 MANAGING OUR RISKS LEADERSHIP.
PRINCIPAL RISKS OPERATIONAL STRATEGIC RISK MITIGATION CONTROL RISK MITIGATION CONTROL Depletion of reserves at existing Lower ore grade extracted compared 8dbeVcnh ZmeadgVi dc 8VeVX in cXgZVhZh Vi b cZh mines and development projects, programme has been to planning stage estimates that and plants combined with no new mineral could impact cash cost projections and intensied, including a Dei b hVi dc d[ gZXdkZg Zh deposits identied, which would doubling of the budget in production programmes.
at our plants impact the Companys growth regional properties and Dc d c hZVgX] [dg YZedh ih projections and production VgZVh d[ cjZcXZ c VgZVh d[ cjZcXZ capabilities.
"Adc ""iZgb ZmeadgVi dc 9 aji dc Xdcigda Z[[dgih programme difficulty in sourcing critical ]an igV cZY VcY HigViZ X gZYjcYVcXn experienced exploration team equipment and strategic spare programme maintains key parts to meet operational needs, parts in inventory Delays in obtaining access :c V ZbZci l i] due to long production and delivery Adc iZgb XdcigVXih l i] to the land for performing timeframes, as well as shortages government agencies and suppliers exploration mining activities, communities caused by competition for such parts."
caused by complex or unsuccessful g c d[ eZghdccZa l i] negotiations with ejidos specific expertise Continued upward trend in the price Dc d c [dXjh dc cooperative landowners.
of key operating materials due to EjgX]VhZh d[ hjg[VXZ aVcY Vi productivity lower per and near our projects at an competitive demand and reliance on unit consumption and third party suppliers.
early stage cost control Adc iZgb egdXjgZbZci difficulty in nding and or retaining IVaZci YZci XVi dc eaVc programmes with key personnel with the requisite deployed suppliers knowledge, skills and experiences Dc d c igV c c for key positions, particularly when programme linked to Expensive or insufficient energy :kVajVi c [ZVh W a in d[ competition for such personnel is to meet demands of mining a succession plan and direct or indirect JV greater during periods of expansion in development programme operations, due to reliance on CFE, associations investments the mining industry.
Dc d c gZXgj ibZci higViZ n in alternative energy programmes wind and Internal union conicts at 8adhZ Xdbbjc XVi dc l i] hydroelectric the national level may cause union leaders at both the ZcZgVidgh chiVaaZY c `Zn temporary stoppages or discontinue local and national level operating equipment operations, even when the source :[[dgih id WgdVYZc i]Z 8adhZ Xdbbjc XVi dc d[ i]dhZ Xdc Xih h cdi gZaViZY base of support among with CFE to local labour contracts and or unionised workers, including working conditions at Fresnillo plc.
Accidents or irresponsible djigZVX] id `Zn cjZcXZgh IgV c c c ZmZXji dc d[ X k a actions caused by the Company in contingency plans.
"Security related risks such as the communities where it operates E] adhde]n d[ cd 8dbea VcXZ Xdcigdah drug cartels, kidnapping, thefts, involvement with ""power that may disrupt operations from a for the Groups Health, etc."
which have increased markedly civil or legal perspective.
groups Safety, Environment and in Mexico over the past year, could EgjYZcXZ gZ VgY c Community Relations System cause business interruptions resulting unknown persons around from their impact on personnel and our ofces and operations difficulties in obtaining permission :c V ZbZci l i] i]Z property.
While the Company, its from the Mexican Ministry of Defence HZXjg in bZVhjgZh c eaVXZ Mexican military, close employees, contractors and facilities at the local level for the use of explosives, due to communication with are not necessarily specic targets, the aforementioned security risks authorities security issues have become pervasive that have increased the militarys @Zn eZghdccZa WZ c VYYZY0 in many parts of the country.
control and management of training reinforced explosives.
G dgdjh dc h iZ Y hX ea cZ to comply with regulations 62 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT FINANCIAL COMPLIANCE RISK MITIGATION CONTROL RISK MITIGATION CONTROL Volatility in silver and gold prices External pressure from NGOs, H akZg VcY daY cdcZ0 i]Z AZkZgV c djg edh i dc that could impact the realised Company has committed political groups and others for c 86B B:M id cjZcXZ prices of the Companys production more regulation to the mining not to hedge in order to legislators to produce output, and in exchange allow investors full exposure industry in Mexico, which could acceptable regulations rates that could impact pesoincrease our regulatory burden.
to silver and gold prices Bdc idg c d[ denominated production costs when BMC$JH ZmX]Vc Z Government policies and converted into dollars.
rate: selective hedging political activists to protect against the Failure to comply with adverse impact on the 8dbea VcXZ Xdcigdah peso component of costs environmental, health and for the Groups Health, safety regulations that could and expenses Safety, Environment and disrupt operations, lead to Community Relations Adverse changes in the tax financial and legal penalties, and 9 Vad jZ l i] `Zn System law and or new mining legislators via CAMIMEX or terminate the Companys :c[dgXZbZci d[ hig Xi royalties, rights or duties mining licences.
Mexican Mining Chamber safety and health that could impact the Companys id cjZcXZ dkZgcbZci regulations: training profitability.
Highly profitable decisions makers OZgd idaZgVcXZ egd gVbbZ companies and industries tend to 8daaVWdgVi dc l i] eZZg for dangerous conditions attract more scrutiny in times of group mining companies governmental budget constraints.
to engage with the Government regarding industry interests Environment, safety and health inspection at the Fresnillo milling area 63 MANAGING OUR RISKS LEADERSHIP.
CFO Mario Arregun, CEO Jaime Lomeln and Chairman Alberto Baillres 64 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1 Continuing the sustainable 2 Maximise the potential 3 Deliver growth through 4 Extend the 5 Maintain strict development of the Group of existing operations development projects growth pipeline financial discipline 65 CAPITULO LEADERSHIP.
