G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38 Group principal risks Our risk assessment and Risk and potential impact Mitigation management process Group management continually monitors competitor activity to ensure that The group will be undertaking a project to refine the customer Price competition the group can react quickly to any competitor actions which would directly measurement system during early 2010 which should further enhance The group operates around 150 businesses spread The security industry comprises a number of very competitive markets.
In affect the groups results.
particular, manned security markets can be fragmented with relatively low over more than 110 countries and across a range All business plans and strategic planning includes competitor and SWOT economic barriers to entry and the group competes with a wide variety of of product areas.
Most of the risks identified below analysis and the pricing strategy for contracts is managed through business operators of varying sizes.
Actions taken by the groups competitors may place are market specific and so the diversity of the groups unit and regional price approval levels.
Significant price reductions require pressure upon its pricing, margins and profitability.
operations means any particular issue should have a limited impact.
The group performs strategic and business planning at group, division, The group also monitors local markets and engages with local Major changes in market dynamics region and business unit level to ensure that specific local regulation governments around the world involving the group legal department The group operates a management structure that Such changes in dynamics could include new technologies, government legislation requirements are met.
Monthly business unit trading reviews ensure that where appropriate to ensure adherence to regulatory requirements, is appropriate to the scale and breadth of its activities, or customer consolidation and could, particularly if rapid or unpredictable, impact market changes are identified quickly and actions taken to maintain to identify any restrictions that could adversely impact the groups the groups revenues and profitability.
and the internal audit department operates under performance and ensure that business objectives continue to be achieved.
activities and take appropriate actions.
a wide remit to ensure strict adherence to group Security can be a high profile industry.
There is a wide and ever-changing variety of regulations applicable to the groups businesses across the world, with a recent authorisation procedures and control standards development being an increase of restriction of foreign ownership in some as outlined here.
Failure, or an inability, to comply with such regulations may adversely affect the groups revenues and profitability.
Risk Management Process Audit Committee overview The group has formal systems and policies in place documenting physical In addition there is regular reporting of any cash losses attacks and audits Cash losses security procedures and security directives and adheres to a security of security are performed in branches.
The group is responsible for the cash held on behalf of its customers.
Increases in Risk Committees framework to help reduce the risk of cash losses.
Recently the group has implemented a number of actions around recruiting the value of cash lost through criminal attack may increase the costs of the The group also operates captive insurance business units to mitigate against regional cash reconciliation managers to increase the frequency and profile groups insurance.
Were there to be failures in the control and reconciliation Risks identi ed Group the financial risk of losses and attacks.
of cash reconciliations throughout the group.
processes surrounding customer cash these could also adversely affect the and escalated based groups profitability.
All transactions are subject to strict authorisation limits and regular on materiality reconciliations of cash balances are performed for both cash in ATMs Management meetings and cash held on customers behalf.
Regions and clusters Any new contracts entered into are subject to defined approval process The group maintains a contract risk database and management system to Onerous contractual obligations criteria.
Standard contracts with standard terms and conditions are used monitor the ongoing risks involved.
The contract management system was Should the group commit to sales contracts specifying disadvantageous pricing where possible.
Non-standard contracts which expose the group to subject to a major upgrade during 2009. mechanisms, unachievable service levels or excessive liability, it could impact its material risk e. g. unlimited liability are subject to risk assessment and Company margins and profitability.
depending on the level of risk exposure are referred for regional and and business functions group legal department review.
The performance of the groups pension schemes and deficit funding plans The results of these reviews are discussed with the board and appropriate Defined benefit pension schemes Risk reporting system are reviewed regularly by both the group and the trustees of the schemes action is taken.
Please refer to note 34 to the group accounts for further A prolonged period of poor asset returns and or unexpected increases in taking actuarial and investment advice as necessary.
details of the groups retirement benefit plans and upcoming valuations.
longevity could require increases in the current levels of additional cash contributions to defined benefit pension schemes, which may constrain the groups ability to invest in acquisitions or capital expenditure, adversely impacting its growth and profitability.
The group has standard recruitment policies and procedures in place Steps have been taken to further tighten controls and increase independent Inappropriate sourcing of staff to ensure that only appropriate staff are recruited.
These include formal monitoring of business unit compliance with these standards.
For 2010 The groups greatest asset is its large and committed workforce.
However, were vetting procedures carried out during application with formal sign-off that onwards a formal business unit compliance review by regional human the group to source inappropriate staff, whether as permanent employees, the group standards have been met before a new staff member, temporary resources management has been instigated.
temporary workers or sub-contractors, the result could be detrimental to the worker or sub-contractor is able to commence work.
Particular attention is given to acquired businesses to ensure that they meet groups reputation and could adversely affect the groups growth and profitability.
Group-wide operational procedures and standards are in place and Poor operational service delivery enforced in all business units.
There is also a robust supervision structure Should the group fail to meet the operational requirements of its customers which allows management to monitor the progress and delivery of the it could impact its reputation, contract retention and growth.
groups contracts and customer relationships.
The group treasury department monitors and follows policies to mitigate The groups historical main source of funding has been a revolving bank Financing against liquidity, refinancing and currency exchange rate risks.
Refer to facility of 1.1bn that is due for renewal in 2012.
Recently the group has If, due to adverse financial market conditions, insufficient or only very costly note 33 to the group accounts for more details.
sought to diversify its sources of finance by issuing a number of private financial funding were available, the group might not be in a position to placement bonds both in the US and more recently in the UK.
implement its strategy or invest in acquisitions or capital expenditure, adversely These have spread out the refinancing requirements over the next ten impacting its growth and profitability.
This includes possible bank bankruptcy, loss years to ensure the group has access to sufficient funds to meet its business of headroom particularly from movement of exchange rates, unavailability of bank, and strategic plans.
bond or other sources of financing and downgrading of the G4S credit rating.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Overview Business review 39 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Risk and potential impact Mitigation Group management continually monitors competitor activity to ensure that The group will be undertaking a project to refine the customer Price competition the group can react quickly to any competitor actions which would directly measurement system during early 2010 which should further enhance The security industry comprises a number of very competitive markets.
particular, manned security markets can be fragmented with relatively low All business plans and strategic planning includes competitor and SWOT economic barriers to entry and the group competes with a wide variety of analysis and the pricing strategy for contracts is managed through business operators of varying sizes.
Actions taken by the groups competitors may place unit and regional price approval levels.
The group performs strategic and business planning at group, division, The group also monitors local markets and engages with local Major changes in market dynamics region and business unit level to ensure that specific local regulation governments around the world involving the group legal department Such changes in dynamics could include new technologies, government legislation requirements are met.
Monthly business unit trading reviews ensure that where appropriate to ensure adherence to regulatory requirements, or customer consolidation and could, particularly if rapid or unpredictable, impact market changes are identified quickly and actions taken to maintain to identify any restrictions that could adversely impact the groups the groups revenues and profitability.
performance and ensure that business objectives continue to be achieved.
Security can be a high profile industry.
There is a wide and ever-changing variety of regulations applicable to the groups businesses across the world, with a recent development being an increase of restriction of foreign ownership in some countries.
The group has formal systems and policies in place documenting physical In addition there is regular reporting of any cash losses attacks and audits Cash losses security procedures and security directives and adheres to a security of security are performed in branches.
Increases in framework to help reduce the risk of cash losses.
Were there to be failures in the control and reconciliation the financial risk of losses and attacks.
processes surrounding customer cash these could also adversely affect the groups profitability.
All transactions are subject to strict authorisation limits and regular reconciliations of cash balances are performed for both cash in ATMs and cash held on customers behalf.
Any new contracts entered into are subject to defined approval process The group maintains a contract risk database and management system to Onerous contractual obligations criteria.
Non-standard contracts which expose the group to subject to a major upgrade during 2009. mechanisms, unachievable service levels or excessive liability, it could impact its material risk e. g. unlimited liability are subject to risk assessment and margins and profitability.
depending on the level of risk exposure are referred for regional and group legal department review.
The performance of the groups pension schemes and deficit funding plans The results of these reviews are discussed with the board and appropriate Defined benefit pension schemes are reviewed regularly by both the group and the trustees of the schemes action is taken.
