GKN plc Annual Report 2009 Risks and Uncertainties 30 GKN has an extensive risk management framework designed to identify and assess the likelihood and consequences of risk and to manage the actions necessary to mitigate their impact.
A detailed description of this framework is given on pages 48 and 49.
Set out below are the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Group and the corresponding mitigating actions that are in place.
Additional risks not currently known or which are currently regarded as immaterial could also adversely affect future performance.
Market risks Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation Market cycles Changes in macro-economic conditions, consumer Diverse business portfolio serving different markets demand and preferences and availability of credit.
Extensive actions to reduce cost base GKNs financial performance could be impacted by Effective cash management including focus on working continued overcapacity in automotive production and capital and investment spending changed consumer preferences for smaller, less Ongoing review of market indicators sophisticated vehicles: rescheduling or cancellation of orders for civil aircraft and changes in value or timing of defence spending: lower agricultural and mining commodity prices and reduced levels of construction.
Customers Significant customer concentration in automotive GKN is not dependent on contractual or other and aerospace industries some 65% of Group sales arrangements with any individual customer are from 25 major customers although no single Active management of customer relations and credit customer represented more than 10% of Group sales exposure at 31 December 2009.
The insolvency of, damage to Strong commercial and engineering focus at customer relations or significant worsening of commercial terms level, ensuring effective programme delivery with a major customer could result in the loss of future business opportunities, asset write-offs and additional restructuring actions.
Competition Highly competitive markets with customer decisions Continual review of competition and market trends based typically on price, quality, technology and Investment in engineering and lean manufacturing service.
Customer vertical integration including OEMs capabilities taking production in-house, the entry of new competitors Strong customer relationships or consolidation of existing competitors could restrict GKNs ability to grow its business.
Technology Inability to launch new products, new product applications Regular assessment of market and technology trends or derivations of existing products in a timely manner and drivers to meet customers needs.
GKN may lose customers to Divisional technology plans aligned to emerging and competitors offering new technologies in the event of an future trends inability to adapt to market developments.
Changes in Focused investment in research and development legislative, regulatory or industry requirements, competitive technologies or consumer preferences may render GKNs products obsolete or less attractive.
Operational risks Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation Supply chain Lack of availability of equipment, components, services Monitoring of financial viability of key suppliers and raw materials that meet specifications.
Volatility in Ongoing assessment of supplier technology and production and the need to maintain appropriate inventory dependency levels requires effective supply chain management.
Dual sourcing to reduce dependence on single supplier Supply chain disruption could impact GKNs sales to and relationships with its customers and result in additional unrecoverable costs.
com 31 Operational risks continued Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation Product quality Potential liabilities for defects in products, warranty High levels of quality assurance and manufacturing claims or product recalls.
Product quality issues could systems adversely affect profits and damage GKNs reputation.
Product liability insurance although GKN does not generally insure against product warranty or recall People Inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, Annual succession planning and performance particularly engineering professionals.
The absence development process of adequate talent and a lack of continuity in management Competitive reward packages and Group-wide training and leadership could result in an inability to execute the and development programmes strategic plan and deliver financial performance.
Acquisitions Inability to realise expected benefits of acquisitions.
Focused reviews to ensure strategic alignment of A lack of suitable acquisition targets aligned with planned acquisitions strategy, a failure to integrate acquired businesses Extensive pre-acquisition due diligence successfully, or an inability to capture value from them Careful management of the integration plans by could impact operations and prevent successful experienced on-site management delivery of GKNs strategic objectives.
Financial risks Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation Pensions Pension deficit levels are affected by changes in asset Active management of pension scheme assets and long values, discount rates, inflation and longevity term view of liability assumptions assumptions.
Accounting valuations of post-employment Continuing review of the level of benefits provided obligations can cause volatility in financial reporting.
Alternative funding and deficit reduction plans Additional Company pension contributions could restrict implemented where appropriate investment in businesses.
Exchange rates Currency risks: transactional subsidiary sales or Hedging of transaction exposures through forward purchases in currencies other than their functional foreign exchange contracts currency and translational exchange rate movements Balance sheet translational hedging policy currently in investments in overseas operations in GKNs balance suspended due to continuing volatility of foreign sheet.
The Groups financial statements will fluctuate currencies against sterling as a result of movements in exchange rates.
Taxation GKN is subject to complex tax laws and audit Ongoing monitoring of tax developments in major procedures.
Actual tax liabilities could differ from jurisdictions accruals which are based on management judgement.
Group-wide tax compliance programme Actions taken to utilise tax losses The Group insures against the impact of a range of unpredicted losses associated with both its business assets and liabilities.
GKNs risk financing strategy is based on a significant level of capped self-insured retention at the Group level within GKNs own captive insurance company, Ipsley Insurance Ltd, which does not insure the risks of any other entity and a much lower retention at subsidiary level through deductibles.
Catastrophe insurance is then purchased in the commercial market over and above these levels of retention.
Ipsleys current participation in GKNs principal insurance programme is 10 million per incident capped at 20 million in any one year.
Due to the nature of the risk, the Groups aviation products liability insurance is placed solely in the commercial market.
