66 Corporate governance Risk Oversight Audit and & Risk Compliance Committee Council Internal Assurance audit Business unit assertion assessment assessment Independent External audit Business Emerging Internal review of Business Incidents regulatory control business unit risk audit monitoring agency outcome events infrastructure management activity and internal audit activity GSK Risk Universe Management Internal Assurance audit Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs This new alignment of the global audit functions further strengthens GSKs governance model by affording the Internal RMCBs have been established in each of the major business units.
Audit group greater independence, reduces fragmentation among Membership often comprises members of the senior executive global audit functions and provides a direct reporting line from team of the respective business unit, augmented by specialists the Internal Audit group to GSKs Company Secretary & Corporate where appropriate.
The RMCBs oversee management of all Compliance Officer and to the Chairman of the Audit & Risk risks that are considered important for their respective business Committee to ensure significant issues are escalated in a timely units, including those risks that are designated as significant to manner.
This has helped eliminate overlaps, gaps and potential for GlaxoSmithKline as a whole, thus increasing the number of risks over under auditing that existed in the previous structure.
that are actively managed across the Group.
It also provides a clear platform for developing a common Each business unit and corporate function must periodically review approach to the conduct of internal audits which helps ensure the significant risks facing their businesses.
This review should consistency and that audit activities are performed in the most include identifying operational risks, legal compliance risks and risks efficient and effective way.
to the achievement of strategic goals and objectives.
The review must occur at least annually, should be embedded within, and Assurance reporting aligned with, the annual planning process to ensure that significant Assurance reporting to the Audit & Risk Committee will follow a risks are identified with changes in management direction and the structured programme integrating reporting from business units, external environment.
Assurance Business units and corporate functions are required to present In 2009, an Assurance Programme was implemented to further reports annually to the ROCC and Audit & Risk Committee that enhance governance and provide an independent assessment detail its risk management and compliance approach, providing a of governance, risk management and control processes for the balanced assessment of the status of internal controls over key risks, organisation.
Within GSK this comprises four main elements: and highlighting any significant compliance issues.
Management must oversee risks that are considered important for their respective Internal Audit business units, including those risks that are designated as significant GSKs Internal Audit group has responsibility for independently to the Group.
Information regarding the controls in place to manage assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of the management these risks will be provided to assure the Audit & Risk Committee over significant risk areas and reporting it to the Audit & Risk that these risks are adequately managed within the internal control Committee in line with an agreed annual Assurance Plan.
GSKs internal audit functions have undergone significant transformation as the four global audit functions Group Internal Internal Audit reports to the Audit & Risk Committee at the same Audit, Manufacturing Internal Audit, R&D Internal Audit, and time as the business unit and provides an independent assessment of Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability Internal Audit whether adequate controls are in place to manage significant risks.
have been consolidated into a single organisation under the leadership of the Head of Audit and Assurance.
The Head of Audit and Assurance reports to GSKs Company Secretary & Corporate Compliance Officer with a separate reporting responsibility to the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Governance and remuneration P54P90
