Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 43 Risk factors There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Groups business, Patent infringement litigation financial condition and results of operations that may affect the The Groups patents, in common with all patents, can be challenged Groups performance and ability to achieve its objectives.
Efforts by generic manufacturers may involve challenges factors below are among those that the Group thinks, based to the validity or enforceability of a patent or assertions that their on the CETs most recent annual workshop to identify the most generic product does not infringe the Groups patents.
If GSK is not significant risks facing the Group, could cause its actual results successful in defending an attack on its patents and maintaining to differ materially from expected and historical results.
There are exclusive rights to market one or more of its major products, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Group or particularly in the USA where the Group has its highest turnover which are deemed immaterial.
and margins, the Groups financial results may be materially and adversely affected.
See Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal For each of the risks described below, the Group has implemented proceedings, for a discussion of patent-related proceedings in a system of internal control that involves policies and procedures, which the Group is involved and page 12 for a description of the communication and training programmes, supervision and resolutions of prior proceedings which affect the dates on which monitoring and processes for escalating issues to the appropriate generic versions of the Groups products may be introduced.
Such a system helps facilitate the Groups ability to respond appropriately to risks and to achieve Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions Group objectives and helps ensure compliance with applicable of many of the Groups most important products, prior to the laws, regulations and internal policies.
It is not possible, however, expiration of the Groups patents, and have exhibited a readiness for the Group to implement controls to respond to all the risks to do so for other products in the future.
The US launch of generic that it may face, and there can be no assurance that the steps the products competing with Lamictal, Imitrex, Paxil CR, Requip, Group has taken to address certain risks will manage these risks Wellbutrin XL and Valtrex had a significant impact on the Groups effectively or at all.
overall turnover and earnings for 2009.
The Groups management of these risks is further discussed on Potential changes in intellectual property laws and page 66 Corporate Governance.
regulations Proposals to change existing patent and data exclusivity laws and The major risks that might affect GSKs business are: regulations in major markets in which the Group sells its products Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially successful are a continuing feature of the political process in those countries.
new products These include proposals that could have the effect of making Continued development of commercially viable new products as well prosecution of patents for new products more difficult and timeas the development of additional uses for existing products is critical consuming or adversely affect the exclusivity period for the Groups to the Groups ability to replace sales of older products that decline products, including biological products.
Should such proposals upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall sales.
be enacted they may materially and adversely affect the Groups Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
A new product candidate can fail at any stage of the process, and Weakness of intellectual property protection in one or more late stage product candidates could fail to receive certain countries regulatory approval.
In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent protection may be significantly weaker than in the USA or the New product candidates may appear promising in development European Union.
Some developing countries have reduced, but, after significant investment, fail to reach the market or have or threatened to reduce, effective patent protection for only limited commercial success.
This, for example, could be pharmaceutical products generally, or in particular therapeutic as a result of efficacy or safety concerns, an inability to obtain areas, to facilitate early competition within their markets from necessary regulatory approvals, difficulty manufacturing or generic manufacturers.
Any loss of patent protection, including excessive manufacturing costs, erosion of patent terms as a result reducing the scope of patent rights or compulsory licensing, could of a lengthy development period, infringement of patents or other materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results in those intellectual property rights of others or an inability to differentiate national markets but is not expected to be material to the Group the product adequately from those with which it competes.
Absence of adequate patent protection could limit the Furthermore, health authorities such as the US FDA, the European opportunity to look to such markets for future sales growth.
Medicines Agency and the Japan Pharmaceuticals and Medicines Device Agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing Risk of substantial adverse outcome of litigation and the benefit risk balance of drugs, which has made it more difficult government investigations for pharmaceutical products to gain regulatory approval.
See Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, for a discussion of proceedings and governmental investigations There is also increasing pressure on healthcare budgets as the involving matters which if proven could give rise to civil and average age of the population in developed markets increases and or criminal liabilities in which the Group is currently involved.
the absolute population in developing markets grows.
Payers have Unfavourable resolution of these and similar future proceedings or therefore increasingly demanded greater incremental benefit from investigations may have a material adverse effect on the Groups drugs before agreeing to reimburse suppliers at prices suppliers financial condition and results of operations.
The Group has consider appropriate.
A failure to develop commercially successful made material provisions in 2009 and prior years related to legal products or develop additional uses for existing products for any proceedings and investigations which reduced its earnings.
of these reasons could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
GSK Annual Report 2009 44 Risk factors The Group may also make additional significant provisions related Sales, marketing and regulation to legal proceedings and investigations in the future, which would The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory reduce its earnings.
In many cases the practice of the plaintiff bar environments that often vary among jurisdictions.
The failure is to claim damages in amounts that bear no relationship to the to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these underlying harm.
Accordingly it may be potentially misleading for jurisdictions may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings.
the Group to quantify, based on the amount of damages claimed, As those rules and regulations change or as governmental its potential exposure to claims, proceedings and investigations interpretation of those rules and regulations evolve, prior conduct of the type described in Note 44 to the financial statements, may be called into question.
In the USA, for example, the Group is responding to federal Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical product and state governmental investigations into pricing, marketing liability exposures, has increased the cost of, and narrowed the and reimbursement of its prescription drug products.
These coverage afforded by, insurance for pharmaceutical companies investigations could result in related restitution or civil false claims generally, including the Group.
act litigation on behalf of the federal or state governments, as well as related proceedings initiated against the Group by or on behalf In order to contain insurance costs in recent years the Group has of consumers and private payers.
Such proceedings may result in continued to adjust its coverage profile, accepting a greater degree trebling of damages awarded or fines in respect of each violation of un-insured exposure.
In addition, where claims are made under of law.
Criminal proceedings may also be initiated against the insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny coverage Group.
Any of these consequences could materially and adversely on various grounds.
If denial of coverage is ultimately upheld affect the Groups financial results.
on these claims, this could result in additional charges that may materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
Third party competition The Group operates in highly competitive markets.
In the Product liability litigation pharmaceuticals business, it faces competition both from Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development proprietary products of large international manufacturers and of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of producers of generic pharmaceuticals.
Significant product products for use by humans following approval by regulatory innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price bodies.
Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines competition by competitors may materially and adversely affect are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated side effects may the Groups financial results.
The Group cannot predict the timing become evident.
or impact of competitive products or their potential impact In other instances third parties may perform analyses of published on sales of the Groups products.
Continued consolidation in clinical trial results which, although not necessarily accurate the pharmaceutical industry may adversely affect the Groups or meaningful, may raise questions regarding the safety of competitive position, while continued consolidation among the pharmaceutical products which may be publicised by the media Groups customers may increase pricing pressures.
and may result in product liability claims.
The Group is currently The Group had nine pharmaceutical products with over a defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits, including 500 million in annual global sales in 2009.
Among these products class actions, that involve substantial claims for damages related are Augmentin IR and ES, Lamictal IR, Paxil and Valtrex for which to the Groups pharmaceutical products.
Litigation, particularly in there is generic competition in the USA.
the USA, is inherently unpredictable and excessive verdicts that are not justified by the evidence can occur.
Class actions that sweep If any of the Groups major products were to become subject to a together all persons who were prescribed the Groups products can problem such as unplanned loss of patent protection, unexpected inflate the potential liability by the force of numbers.
Claims for side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or pain and suffering and punitive damages are frequently asserted in patient confidence or pressure from competitive products, or if a product liability actions and, if allowed, can represent potentially new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the Groups open ended exposure and thus could materially and adversely financial results may be materially and adversely affected.
affect the Groups financial results.
In particular, the Group faces intense competition from Anti-trust litigation manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products in all of its In the USA it has become increasingly common for patent major markets.
Generic products often enter the market upon infringement actions to prompt claims that anti-trust laws have expiration of patents or data exclusivity periods for the Groups been violated during the initial prosecution of the patent or during products.
Introduction of generic products typically leads to a litigation involving the defence of that patent.
Such claims by dramatic loss of sales and reduces the Groups revenues and direct and indirect purchasers and other payers are typically filed margins for its proprietary products.
The expiration dates for as class actions.
The relief sought may include treble damages and patents for the Groups major products and a description of restitution claims.
Damages in adverse anti-trust verdicts are subject litigation settlements which may affect the dates on which generic to automatic trebling in the USA.
Similarly, anti-trust claims may be versions of the Groups products may be introduced are set out on brought following settlement of patent litigation, alleging that such page 12.
Legal proceedings involving patent challenges are set out settlements are anti-competitive and in violation of anti-trust laws.
in Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
A successful anti-trust claim against the Group could materially and Governmental and payer controls adversely affect the Groups financial results.
Pharmaceutical products are subject to price controls or pressures and other restrictions in many markets, including Japan, Germany, Spain, France and Italy.
Some governments intervene directly in setting prices.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Business review P06P53 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 45 Risk factors In addition, in some markets major purchasers of pharmaceutical Risk of interruption of product supply products whether governmental agencies or private health care The manufacture of pharmaceutical products and their constituent providers have the economic power to exert substantial pressure materials requires compliance with good manufacturing practice on prices or the terms of access to formularies.
The Groups manufacturing sites are subject to review and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies.
The Group cannot accurately predict whether existing controls, Compliance failure by suppliers of key services and materials or pressures or restrictions will increase or whether new controls, the Groups own manufacturing facilities could lead to product pressures or restrictions will be introduced.
Such measures may recalls and seizures, interruption of production and delays in the materially and adversely affect the Groups ability to introduce approvals of new products pending resolution of manufacturing new products profitably and its financial results issues.
Non-compliance can also result in fines and disgorgement For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins of profits.
Any interruption of supply or the incurrence of fines or and the most sales for any country, pricing pressures could disgorgement could materially and adversely affect the Groups significantly increase as experience continues to develop under financial results.
the outpatient pharmaceutical programme covering Medicare Although the Group undertakes business continuity planning, beneficiaries that began in 2006.
Also, changes to the related single sourcing for certain components, bulk active materials enabling legislation could afford the US government a direct role and finished products creates a risk of failure of supply in the in negotiating prices under the Medicare programme.
event of regulatory non-compliance or physical disruption at the In addition, the US Congress is considering comprehensive health manufacturing sites.
care reform legislation that could significantly expand the scope Risk from concentration of sales to wholesalers of government health care programs that include specific price In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the control mechanisms or that could increase the Groups rebate Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers liability with respect to those programs.
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other Additionally, a number of states have proposed or implemented groups.
Sales to the three largest wholesalers amounted to various schemes to control prices for their low-income and senior approximately 85% of the Groups US pharmaceutical sales in citizens programmes, including increasing the rebate liability of 2009.
At 31st December 2009 the Group had trade receivables pharmaceutical companies, importation from other countries due from these three wholesalers totalling 867 million and bulk purchases of drugs.
The growth in the number of 31st December 2008 1,067 million.
The Group is exposed to patients covered through large managed care institutions in the a concentration of credit risk in respect of these wholesalers such USA, which has increased with implementation of the Medicare that, if one or more of them is affected by financial difficulty, it benefit, also increases pricing pressures on the Groups products.
could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
Any of these trends may materially and adversely affect the Global political and economic conditions Groups financial results.
As described on page 27, many of the worlds largest economies, Regulatory controls including the major markets in which the Group operates, and The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls financial institutions have recently faced extreme financial difficulty, on the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of many of including a decline in asset prices, liquidity problems and limited its pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products, particularly availability of credit.
Many of these economies have experienced in the USA and countries of the European Union, that affect not sharp recessions.
While some economies have shown signs of only the cost of product development but also the time required recovery, the rate of recovery may be slow.
to reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully doing Continued economic weakness may have a material adverse effect so.
Health authorities have increased their focus on safety when on the Groups sales, results of operations, financial condition and assessing the benefit risk balance of drugs in the context of not ability to raise capital.
Some of the Groups businesses, including only initial product approval but also in the context of approval Consumer Healthcare, may be particularly sensitive to declines in of additional indications and review of information regarding consumer spending.
In addition, further or renewed declines in marketed products.
Stricter regulatory controls also heighten the asset prices may result in a lower return on the Groups financial risk of changes in product profile or withdrawal by regulators on investments and may cause the value of the Groups investments the basis of post-approval concerns over product safety, which in its pension plans to decrease, requiring the Group to increase could reduce revenues and can result in product recalls and product its funding of those pension plans.
There is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the USA, on advertising and promotion and in particular on The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations outside direct-to-consumer advertising.
The Groups management of foreign exchange rates is discussed in Business Review, Foreign exchange management In addition, in some cases the Group may voluntarily cease see page 42.
Fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling marketing a product or face declining sales based on concerns and other currencies, especially the US dollar, the Euro and the about efficacy or safety for example, the decline in sales of Japanese Yen, could materially and adversely affect the Groups Avandia beginning in 2007 following publicity around questions financial results.
regarding risks associated with the product, whether or not scientifically justified, even in the absence of regulatory action.
The Group has no control over changes in inflation and interest The development of the post-approval adverse event profile for a rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other product or the product class may materially and adversely affect economic factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of the Groups financial results.
political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
GSK Annual Report 2009 46 Risk factors Taxation and treasury Failure to manage properly the environmental risks could result in additional remedial costs that may materially and adversely The Groups effective tax rate is driven by rates of tax in affect the Groups financial results.
See Note 44 to the financial jurisdictions that are both higher and lower than that applied in the statements, Legal proceedings, for a discussion of environmentalUK.
In addition, many jurisdictions such as the UK, Belgium and the related proceedings in which the Group is involved.
USA currently offer regimes that encourage innovation and new scientific endeavours by providing tax incentives, for example R&D Accounting standards tax credits.
Furthermore, given the scale and international nature New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations of the Groups business, intra-group transfer pricing is an inherent circulated from time to time by an international standard setting tax risk as it is for other international businesses.
Changes in tax board could result in changes to the recognition of income and laws or in their application with respect to matters such as transfer expense that may materially and adversely affect the Groups pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, R&D tax credits financial results.
or a restriction in tax relief allowed on the interest on intra-Group debt, could increase the Groups effective tax rate and materially International standard changes in the market valuation of certain and adversely affect its financial results.
financial instruments are reflected in the Groups reported results before those gains or losses are actually realised and could have a The tax charge included in the financial statements is the Groups significant impact on the income statement in any given period.
best estimate of its tax liability but, until such time as audits by Accounting for deferred taxation on inter-company inventory tax authorities are concluded, there is a degree of uncertainty may give rise to volatility depending upon the ownership of regarding the final tax liability for the period.
The Groups policy is the inventory.
to submit tax returns within the statutory time limits and engage tax authorities to ensure that the Groups tax affairs are as current Regulators regularly review the financial statements of listed as possible and that any differences in the interpretation of tax companies for compliance with accounting and regulatory legislation and regulation are resolved as quickly as possible.
exceptional cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement The Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory with tax authorities GSK may have to resolve disputes through requirements concerning its financial statements and disclosures.
formal appeals or other proceedings.
The Group is currently However, other companies have experienced investigations appealing a court decision in respect of transfer pricing with the into potential non-compliance with accounting and disclosure Canadian Tax Authorities as discussed in Note 14 to the financial requirements that have resulted in restatements of previously statements, Taxation.
reported results and sometimes significant penalties, which may The Group deals in high value transactions on a frequent basis materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
which may result in an increased risk of financial loss due to the Failure of third party providers mismanagement of cash or entering into high risk positions on Unaffiliated third-party suppliers provide a number of goods hedge transactions, any of which could materially and adversely and services to the Groups operations.
Many of these services, affect the Groups financial results.
for example services provided by clinical research organizations Pandemic influenza to support development of key products, are very important to The market for pandemic influenza vaccines is experiencing the operations of the Groups businesses.
Materials provided by significant volatility given changes in risk perception, developing third-party suppliers are necessary for the commercial production epidemiology and the relative mild nature of the virus, which of our products, including speciality chemicals, commodities was not anticipated by governments or the medical community.
and components necessary for the manufacture, fill-finish and Some governments that have placed orders for the pandemic packaging of many of the Groups pharmaceutical and Consumer vaccine or that have announced changes in their planned Healthcare products.
While the Group does not believe that any immunisation programmes have renegotiated their contracts, of these third-party relationships are individually significant in the and other governments are seeking, or may in the future seek, to context of the overall Group, the failure of any third-party supplier renegotiate their contracts.
While deliveries of pandemic vaccines to fulfil its contractual obligations in a timely manner may result in provided significant contributions to the Groups results in 2008 delays or service interruptions, which may materially and adversely H5N1 vaccines and 2009 H1N1 vaccines, and the Group expects affect the Groups financial results.
the level of sales in 2010 H1N1, possibly stockpile agreements to Protection of electronic information and assets be roughly the same as in 2009, there can be no assurance that The Group relies on critical and sensitive data, such as personally sales of influenza vaccines will meet these estimates or contribute identifiable information, trade secrets, intellectual property and significantly to the Groups results in 2011 or beyond.
The security of such data is exposed to Environmental liabilities increasing threats.
The Group is also subject to various standards The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and for the protection of personally identifiable information.
Failure potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated to implement appropriate safeguards to adequately protect sites.
The Group has also been identified as a potentially responsible against any unauthorised or unintentional access, acquisition, party under the US Comprehensive Environmental Response use, modification, loss or disclosure of this critical or sensitive Compensation and Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation data may adversely affect the Groups operations.
costs relating to the Groups use or ownership of such sites.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Business review P06P53 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 47 Risk factors Alliances and acquisitions For example, the strategic priority to grow a diversified business involves expanding the Groups business into emerging markets.
As part of the Groups strategy to diversify into new product areas The Groups pharmaceutical sales in emerging markets grew 20% and markets, the Group has grown, and expects to continue to in 2009 to nearly 3 billion, which represents 10% of the Groups grow, in part through acquisitions and business alliances.
There is no guarantee that the Groups sales in is intense competition for alliance and acquisition candidates emerging markets will continue to grow or that these markets in the pharmaceutical industry, and, as such, the Group may will continue to experience relatively high growth rates.
Some be unable to make these deals on acceptable terms or at all.
emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to the after-effects In acquiring or forming alliances with companies, the Group of the recent global financial crisis, or may have very limited may assume significant debt, become subject to unknown or resources to spend on healthcare.
Competition in these markets contingent liabilities or fail to realise the benefits expected from for staff with the skills and training suitable for employment these transactions.
For example, most pharmaceutical companies, at an enterprise such as the Groups may be intense.
In some including those that the Group may consider acquiring, are emerging markets, the Group may be required to rely on thirdinvolved in patent disputes, product liability litigation, government party agents, which may put the Group at risk of liability, and some investigations and other legal proceedings whose outcome is emerging markets lack sufficient protection against crimes such subject to considerable uncertainty.
The assumption of debt as counterfeiting.
A failure to continue to expand its business in or unknown or contingent liabilities or the failure to realise the emerging growth markets could materially and adversely affect the expected benefits may materially and adversely affect the Groups Groups financial results.
In addition, the Group is undertaking an Operational Excellence The process of integrating companies the Group may acquire restructuring programme that has an estimated cost of may result in disruption to the ongoing business as the effort of approximately 4.5 billion and is expected to deliver annual pre-tax integrating organisations in different locations and with, among savings of approximately 2.2 billion by the time it is substantially other things, differing systems and corporate cultures may divert complete in 2012.
There can be no assurance that the Group attention and resources, result in the loss of key employees or have will be able to execute fully this transformation of its business.
other adverse consequences, any of which may materially and Furthermore, changes in the Groups structure, operations, adversely affect the Groups financial results.
revenues, costs or efficiency resulting from these restructuring Attraction and retention activities or other strategic initiatives could result in higher than The Group relies heavily on recruiting and retaining talented expected costs or other difficulties.
Failure to realise the expected employees with a range of skills to meet its objectives.
The Group cost savings by the end of the restructuring programme or to faces intense competition for qualified individuals, as the supply achieve and maintain a competitive cost base could materially of people with specific skills or in specific geographic regions and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
may be limited, particularly given the Groups plans to expand its operations in emerging markets, Biologicals and Consumer Healthcare.
The inability to attract staff with specific technical and leadership skills, retain key employees or ensure effective succession planning for critical positions may materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
Implementing the Groups strategic priorities The Group has established three strategic priorities: to grow a diversified business, deliver more products of value and simplify its operating model.
There can be no assurance that the Group will be able to implement its strategic priorities fully or that the strategic priorities will deliver the expected benefits.
