Risks and uncertainties This section highlights some of the key risks We have a diversied business encompassing litigation, regulatory intervention and customer and uncertainties which affect Greene King pubs, restaurants, brewing and drinks distribution, complaints could result in damage to our but is not intended to be an exhaustive as well as a broad geographic spread.
reputation, a loss of trade and a reduction in analysis of all risks facing the business.
our perceived valuation by key stakeholders.
Regulatory risks Greene King has in place clear risk Increasing regulatory requirements or costs We endeavour to maintain tight controls management processes which are designed in areas such as the smoking ban, alcohol to protect and enhance our reputation to identify and evaluate both internal and tolerance, licensing, health & safety, corporate and brand values.
We focus constantly on external risks facing the company, based manslaughter, taxation and the National consistency and quality, with staff training, on the likelihood of their occurrence and Minimum Wage impact many parts of our targeted investment programmes and the scale of their potential impact on the business.
Changes in regulations, including the mystery guest visits all designed to help company.
Each risk has an identied owner current debate around the beer tie, may have maintain standards, and have systems in place within the senior management team, an impact on our business going forward.
to escalate and respond to relevant incidents.
responsible for ensuring that any identied risk improvement measures are implemented We have a range of policies and procedures People risks in a timely manner so that the impact of the in place to ensure compliance with existing This is a people business.
Having a strong risk can be mitigated.
regulatory requirements, including in relation team is a source of material competitive to health and safety, re safety and food advantage in our managed and tenanted pubs, A company-wide risk committee has been safety.
Improvements are constantly being our brewing operations and our head ofce.
established to discuss in detail and monitor introduced in relation to the reporting and the internal controls which have been put in monitoring of such risks, backed up by We aim for an environment where we can place to ensure that the risks are appropriately investment where appropriate.
Compliance recruit the best people and then through managed.
Executive oversight is then carried systems are regularly reviewed and updated training, development and progression ensure out by the senior management of each where appropriate.
Training systems are we retain them.
Our licensee recruitment and business unit, with the executive directors in place to ensure that staff are aware of training programmes, and the variety of rental reviewing group risks on a quarterly basis.
regulatory requirements which impact on agreements on offer, are designed to attract them, and careful planning is undertaken and retain the best quality licensees.
The audit committee receives regular reports to deal with new regulatory requirements.
on the risk management processes in each of We offer training and support to our Financial and control risks the businesses within Greene King.
Once a licensees in many of these areas.
We try to foster an entrepreneurial spirit year it reviews the companys top risks, prior at Greene King, preferring to empower to their submission to the board, which We will carefully monitor developments in our employees as opposed to excessively retains ultimate responsibility for the relation to Business and Enterprise Select controlling them, but recognise the risks companys risk management framework.
Committees report on the beer tie, and aim associated with this.
We also recognise the to ensure that the full facts are given and fully financial risks associated with the current Economic risks understood if any inquiry takes place.
The continuing economic downturn and consequential changes in consumer Supply chain risks We run our operations along divisional lines expenditure, tastes and preferences is having It is fundamental to the operation of our with lean structures to support them and an impact on our business.
At the same time, business that we are able to supply our pubs appropriate operational and financial costs are increasing and there is uncertainty and restaurants, not only with our own beers, autonomy on a day-to-day basis.
In this across the industry about the impact of future but also with the goods and services of third environment, we seek to ensure that, for inationary cost increases.
Our licensees are parties, where we are reliant on a number of both the financial and management controls also affected by the current economic climate, a key suppliers, particularly in relation to food that we put in place, the balance is right leading to the risk of more tenant defaults and alcohol, and third-party distributors.
between such controls being effective and and business failures.
appropriate without being unnecessarily We work closely with our third-party suppliers, controlling and restrictive.
We constantly look to broaden our appeal producers and supply chain partners to to customers by delivering quality and value ensure that our relationships with them are We are keen to maintain our robust financial for money, excellent service and up-to-date positive and constructive at all times.
We also position, with our strong and prudent balance product offers.
We work hard across the group need to minimise the likelihood of failure by sheet and so have rigorous controls in place to continue to drive down costs in all areas or loss of a key supplier and at the same time to monitor compliance with the covenants in whilst at the same time fostering mutually therefore continuously review our back-up our borrowing facilities.
Whilst we have no beneficial and long-term relationships with plans to cope with difficulties should such renancing need in relation to either our bank our suppliers.
We constantly monitor the an eventuality rise.
facility or our securitisation vehicle until 2012, vital signs of our licensee health, and look we aim to ensure that we will be in the best to provide our licensees with additional We take a serious approach to risk possible position to be able to renance in operational and financial support wherever management in our internal production and the lead up to that point.
For further detail on needed and appropriate.
distribution activities, always looking to improve our financial risks, shareholders are referred and learn from other best-in-class operators.
to note 24 of the financial statements and Property values are also impacted by the We have an ongoing programme of testing to the information on the companys internal economic downturn, and with it our ability our disaster-recovery systems relating to our controls contained in the corporate to improve the average quality of our estate brewing operations.
governance section on pages 83 to 87. as extensively.
However, we continue to successfully complete non-core asset Reputational risks disposals.
Within our estate, operational We are a consumer-facing business in sectors focus is given to poorer performing sites that hold important positions within the UKs across our estate in order to optimise their culture and heritage.
Issues such as a failure profitability in difficult times.
to properly execute our branded models, GREENE KING PLC 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09
