DIRECTORS REPORT Strategic review continued We recognise major risks and uncertainties facing us and take action to identify, manage and mitigate them Risk factors DESCRIPTION MITIGATION OPERATIONAL RISK We seek to continuously grow our profits, generating Our key means of risk control is the choice of the markets in which we operate and the a high return for shareholders over the long term within people and methods we use to exploit those market opportunities.
Our choice is to a clear strategic framework.
We view risk within the operate in the safety products and health-related technology markets which we consider context of this objective as well as in absolute terms.
to be robust over the long term.
We invest heavily in identifying, recruiting and training In any business the inherent risks that are an integral talented people who are able to manage the risks we face while delivering the excellent component of business activities must be identied, results we require.
The depth of market knowledge we have built up within the Group, managed and mitigated.
We perceive our primary allows us to adequately evaluate and assess the risks we encounter throughout our operational risks to emanate from remoteness of operations.
We do not place undue reliance on any one Group company, customer, operation and the actions and quality of our employees.
We have processes in place to ensure any major transactions are reviewed at the appropriate level, including at Board level if necessary.
Our products are predominantly critical components or instruments which are warranted as t for the purpose rather than systems or intangible products where satisfactory performance is contingent upon third parties.
ORGANIC GROWTH AND COMPETITION The Group faces competition in the form of pricing, Our focus on increasing our investment in, and rate of, innovation is a direct result service, product performance and substitution.
of responding to these risks.
Maintaining the high quality of our products is critical.
These constitute an ongoing threat to our growth.
In addition, all businesses maintain management information systems that provide local management with valuable product and market data.
By empowering and resourcing local operations to respond to changing market needs, the potential adverse impact of downward price pressure and competition can be mitigated and growth maintained.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT New products are critical to our organic growth and R&D is of necessity a risky activity but by devolving control of product development underpin our ability to earn high margins and high into the autonomous operating businesses, we spread the risk and ensure that returns over the long term.
Protection of our intellectual the resource is as close to the customer as possible.
New product development property is important to our continued success.
best practice is shared between Group companies and return on investment of past and future innovation projects is tracked monthly.
INTANGIBLE RESOURCES Our businesses build competitive advantage and The main intangible resources which deliver competitive advantage and which strengthen barriers to entry in many ways including support our strategic objectives are: the patents and trade marks which protect patents, product approvals, technical innovation, our products: our employees, whose understanding of our technology, customers product quality, customer service levels and branding.
needs and the dynamics of the markets we operate in, enable us to maintain We look for these qualities in the businesses we seek leadership in many markets: and the enviable reputation enjoyed by our brands to acquire.
for superior product quality and market-leading customer support.
Whilst no single product or process is critical to the Group as a whole, all appropriate actions are taken to protect our intellectual property rights.
LAWS AND REGULATIONS Group operations are subject to wide-ranging laws All Group companies have an employee handbook detailing employment practices, and regulations including employment, environmental including the need to report any major legal or contractual risks.
The Groups and health and safety legislation.
There is also emphasis on excellent financial control, the deployment of high quality management exposure to product litigation and contractual risk.
resource and strong focus on quality control over products and processes in each operating business helps to protect us from product failure, litigation and contractual issues.
Each operating company has a health and safety manager responsible for compliance.
We carry comprehensive insurance against all standard categories of insurable risk.
Contract review and approval processes mitigate exposure to contractual liability.
20 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW DESCRIPTION MITIGATION INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY BUSINESS INTERRUPTION Group and operational management depend on timely There is substantial redundancy and back up built into any Group-wide systems.
and reliable information from our software systems.
We The spread of our businesses offers good protection from individual events and seek to ensure continuous availability and operation of disaster recovery plans are widespread.
We have a small central resource those systems but disruption could delay or impact on available, Halma IT Services, to assist Group companies with any major IT needs decision making and service to our customers.
and to ensure adequate IT security policies are set across the Group.
ACQUISITIONS The identication and purchase of businesses which We aim to pay sensible multiples for businesses whose technology and markets meet our demanding financial and growth criteria is an we know well.
Divisional Chief Executives are responsible for nding and important part of our strategy for developing the Group, completing acquisitions in their business sectors subject to Board approval.
We as is ensuring the new businesses are rapidly support them with central resources to search for opportunities and assist with integrated into the Group.
Incentives are aligned to encourage acquisitions which are value-enhancing from day one.
FINANCIAL IRREGULARITIES AND INCREASING SPAN OF CONTROL We recognise that the size and remoteness of some The Group ensures that there is adequate local management and financial operations may not permit full segregation of duties resource in each operational location and regularly reiterates to the Group and that internal and external audit procedures may not company ofcers their duciary responsibilities, ensuring they are adequately always identify a financial irregularity.
This risk increases trained in financial matters whilst maintaining a culture of openness to promote as we pursue our strategy of geographic expansion disclosure.
Group companies operate a common set of reporting procedures and often into regions with different accounting bases accounting policies, disseminated via the Group intranet.
This year we have further and cultures.
strengthened our Internal Audit function, increasing its independence and enabling greater depth and scope of audit.
CASH For any business a key risk is that it will run out of cash The strong cash ow generated by the Group provides financial exibility.
Cash or have inadequate access to cash.
In addition, cash needs are monitored regularly.
In addition to short-term overdraft facilities, the deposits need to be held in a secure form or location.
Group holds a 5-year revolving credit facility, renewable in February 2013, which provides sufficient headroom for its needs.
Cash deposits are monitored centrally and spread amongst a number of highly rated banks.
TREASURY RISKS Foreign currency risk is the most significant treasury The Group does not use complex derivative financial instruments and no related risk for the Group.
In times of increased volatility speculative treasury transactions are undertaken.
significant currency denominated this can have a significant impact on performance.
The net assets and transactions are hedged but future currency profits are not hedged.
Sterling value of overseas profit earned during the year Currency hedging must t with the commercial needs of the business and we are is sensitive to the strength of Sterling, particularly against currently reviewing hedging strategy and developing tools to further monitor and the US Dollar and the Euro.
The Group is exposed to a manage foreign currency exposures.
Longer-term trends can only be covered lesser extent to other treasury risks such as interest rate through a wide geographic spread of operations.
We closely monitor performance risk and liquidity risk.
These financial risks are discussed against the financial covenants on our revolving credit facility and are operating more fully in note 26 to the accounts.
CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS In current economic conditions businesses face We manage such risks primarily at local company level where they are best additional or elevated levels of risk.
These include understood and where we are closest to the markets and our customers.
The market and customer risk, customer default, fraud, financial strength, availability of finance and diversity of the Group provides supply chain risk and liquidity risk.
mitigation to much of this risk.
We utilise export credit insurance where this is available and operate robust credit management at each operating company.
Each business has undertaken a close examination of its cost structure to determine that it is appropriate to the current economic circumstances it faces and contingency plans are in place for potential future changes.
High quality subsidiary boards provide close monitoring of operations whilst the Halma Executive Board identies any wider trends which require action on a broader basis across the Group.
PENSION DEFICIT Monitoring the funding needs of the Groups pension There is regular dialogue with pension fund trustees and pension strategy is a plans is essential to funding our pension obligations regular Halma Board agenda item.
The Groups strong cash ows and access effectively.
Our UK dened benefit pension plans are to adequate borrowing facilities mean that the pensions risk can be adequately closed to new members.
The Group is increasing contributions with the overall objective of paying off the deficit in line with the Actuarys recommendations.
