Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial review & risk Risk management OveRvIew As with all businesses, management of the Groups operations The Risk Committee is responsible for implementing the and execution of the Groups growth strategies are subject to Groups policy on risk management and internal control in a number of risks, the occurrence of any one of which may support of the Companys business objectives, and monitoring adversely affect the execution of growth strategies and hence the effectiveness of risk management within the organisation.
the performance of the Group.
The Group has made significant A review of the most significant risks is carried out by the developments in the management of the Groups risk environment Audit Committee, further details of which are given in the which seeks to identify and, where appropriate, implement Corporate Governance Report on pages 49 to 53. the controls to mitigate the impact of the Groups significant The key business risks affecting the Group are set out in the risks.
This effort is supported by a Risk Committee with the table below.
The steps the Group has taken to mitigate these participation of the CEO, the Vice Presidents, the Country risks, when they are within its control, are also described.
General Managers and the head of the internal audit function.
TyPe OF RISK DeSCRIPTION OF RISK mITIGATING STePS FINANCIAL RISKS Adverse movements in precious metals' Whilst committed to being unhedged, Commodity price risk prices could have a material impact on management continuously monitors silver and the Groups results of operations.
gold prices and, where appropriate, shall take the necessary action, within Board approved parameters.
Loss of revenue resulting from As a result of the global economic downturn, Credit defaulting customers management has taken a number of steps to protect the Group against defaulting customers, by amending sales contracts to provide for advance payment and delaying the transfer of title to goods sold, by obtaining parent company guarantees and implementing risk profiling of key and new customers.
The Group may be unable to raise funds The Board and the Executive Committee Liquidity to meet its financial commitments as they monitor the Groups requirements for shortfall due.
and medium-term liquidity and access to credit lines to ensure appropriate level of financing.
In 2009 the Group increased its short-term bank lines by over 30% in addition to accessing further long-term financing through the issue of equity and convertible bonds The combination of US dollar denominated The relationship between the US dollar and Foreign currency sales and a cost base spread across local local currencies, and gold and silver prices currencies may impact the Groups results provide the company with a natural hedge.
in the event of adverse currency movements Management periodically reviews this against the US dollar.
relationship to ensure the company is properly protected.
Interest rate Movements in interest rates could impact the Given the low interest rate environment, Groups results from financings.
management has taken measures to fix the interest rate exposure of the Group stemming from its debt balance.
Further information on financial risks can be found in note 38 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
40 Financial review & risk TyPe OF RISK DeSCRIPTION mITIGATING STePS OPeRATIONAL RISKS Increase in production costs will impact on The Group seeks to enter into long-term Costs the Groups profitability.
supply contracts where possible, and at favourable prices.
Assets used in operations may break down and The Group has combined property damage Business interruption insurance policies may not cover against all and business interruption insurance policies forms of risks due to certain exclusions and for all operations, and adequacy of coverage limitations.
is regularly reviewed in conjunction with consultants to ensure appropriate level of cover for the industry and for operations in Latin America.
Contingency planning has also led to the Group compiling stock of critical parts and access to back-up power supplies The Groups future profitability and operating The Group has an annual drilling plan which Reserve and resource replacement margins depend upon its ability to replenish is revised on a quarterly basis.
Exploration reserves with geological characteristics to targets are continuously being defined with enable mining at competitive costs.
stated in this Annual Report are estimates.
Personnel Loss of key senior management and The Group seeks to provide competitive personnel: in particular, highly skilled compensation arrangements and well-defined engineers and geologists.
Lack of availability career plans for positions of strategic of individuals with relevant mining experience importance.
In respect of mining personnel, situated in the locality of the Groups operations, a dedicated labour relations strategy has or the inability of the Group to obtain all been developed to meet employees' needs necessary services or expertise locally or and to facilitate open dialogue between key to conduct operations on projects at stakeholders.
mACRO eCONOmIC RISKS Political, legal and regulatory Costs associated with ensuring compliance Regional risk assessments are performed with all relevant laws and regulations are when investment in new countries are substantial and future changes may require considered.
These incorporate reviews of additional expense, restrictions on or political environments and likelihood of suspensions of, the Groups operations and changes in relevant royalties and taxes.
Local may result in delays in the development of teams in each country of operation monitor its properties.
and react, as necessary, to policy changes impacting on the business.
Further mitigation is achieved through broadening of the geographic spread of the Groups assets, ensuring risk is diversified across a number of countries.
CORPORATe SOCIAL ReSPONSIbILITy RISKS Group employees working in the mines may Attainment of Level 4 of the DNV safety Health and safety be exposed to health and safety risks.
Failure management information system at all to manage these risks may result in a work operating units.
slowdown, stoppage or strike and or may damage the reputation of the Group and hence its ability to operate.
The Group may be liable for losses arising As part of the Groups approach to environmental Environmental from environmental hazards associated with risk management, periodic audits of the Groups the Groups activities and production methods, operations are carried out with findings reported or may be required to undertake extensive to senior management, and corresponding remedial clean-up action or pay for recommendations implemented under agreed governmental remedial clean-up actions.
Air and water quality is monitored on a weekly and monthly basis.
Communities living in the localities of the The Groups Community Relations Department Social Groups operations may oppose the activities maintains continuous dialogue and cooperation carried out by the Group at existing mines or with communities surrounding the Groups development projects and prospects which operations.
New high impact plans have been may also impact on the Groups ability to obtain developed focusing on health, education and concessions for current or future projects.
Tailored risk matrices are monitored on a monthly basis.
