REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Principal risks and uncertainties We discuss below the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance and our mitigating activities.
For further information on how we manage risk, see the business review and also pages 56 and 57, within the corporate governance statement.
AREA OF PRINCIPAL RISK AND UNCERTAINTY DESCRIPTION AND EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIVITY Economic and market risks The economic environment, including the activities of other retailers, impacts on the Groups success in terms of Impact on sales, costs, pro t and cash of: sales, costs, pro t and cash management.
Understanding the impact of the global financial crisis on our customers Economic conditions and suppliers, and maintaining competitive positions in our markets is of key importance to the Group.
We have Cost of raw material products services utilities established initiatives to support our ability to manage margin levels effectively through sourcing developments Consumer preferences as well as rigorous cost control.
Our strong nancing position will also support our ability to remain competitive.
Competitor activity The Argos brand is synonymous with choice, value and convenience and our internal processes ensure that Seasonality weather Argos is well positioned to continue to deliver its customer proposition.
Investment has been made to extend UK-centric store network the choice available at all price levels, particularly the Argos Value range and non-catalogue lines on the website.
Expansion development of store network Homebase has responded to customers needs by developing further ranges centred around environmental Changing demographics awareness, as well as expanding its initiatives in e-commerce development.
Pension obligations Other mitigating activities include: Clear communication of choice and value-led product offering to customers Driving market share in targeted product categories Focused and relevant customer service training in Argos and Homebase Store format development and technologies such as Check & Reserve and Quick Pay Kiosks Continued evolution of a broader home enhancement position at Homebase Regular review of pension trustee activities and plans to mitigate any fund fide cit Operations Like other retailers, the Group sources products from overseas, which increases the time between ordering and Failure to ensure appropriate processes are in place to receiving products from suppliers.
Ef cient management processes are therefore needed to ensure stock is in the manage the complexity of retail operations, including right place at the right time.
We continuously re-evaluate our distribution infrastructure to drive further ef ciency.
sourcing of products and customer service The Group aims to continually improve its already successful multi-channel capability, enhancing functionality and responding to customer feedback.
Communication with our customers is very important to us and we continually seek to balance shareholder value with customer value through promotional campaigns, particularly at key events such as Christmas and Easter.
Other mitigating activities include: Improving the accuracy of stock forecasts Realigning our operating and distribution processes following organisational restructure Enhancing home delivery customer ordering functionality Improving clarity of promotional campaigns Continuously improving catalogue production processes 40 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION AREA OF PRINCIPAL RISK AND UNCERTAINTY DESCRIPTION AND EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIVITY Business interruption A major incident could impact the ability of the Group to continue trading.
We maintain and routinely test our Acts of terrorism business continuity plans in order to reduce the potential impact of such events.
Security measures are in place, Failure or unavailability of operational where appropriate, to protect colleagues, customers and assets.
We are also vigilant to the vulnerability of and or IT infrastructure suppliers during the current turbulent trading environment and work towards a sustainable outcome for all parties.
Delay or interruption in service provided by third-party suppliers Other mitigating activities include: Business continuity and recovery planning IT recovery plans Third-party supplier management Infrastructure development projects The Group is committed to investing in the long-term capability of systems and infrastructure.
Strategic projects Delay or failure to manage and implement major to replace or enhance key systems and infrastructure carry a degree of risk: however, we have dedicated project business and infrastructure projects effectively teams in place with strong governance frameworks to manage them.
Other mitigating activities include: Detailed approval and planning process prior to project commencement Board review of status progress of major change programmes Post project implementation reviews Management expertise in signi cant infrastructure change programmes Product safety The safety and quality of our products is of high importance to the Group.
Suppliers are required to sign up to Failure to manage supplier relationships the Groups supply chain principles and to speci c policies regarding products and their environmental impact.
and or ensure appropriate quality checks Wherever possible, Argos and Homebase teams work in conjunction with suppliers to ensure improvement are in place opportunities are explored.
Other mitigating activities include: Quality assurance programme Supplier relationship protocols Terms and conditions for all suppliers People The Group values its colleagues and their contribution to the success of the organisation.
Internal training Reliance on key personnel schemes and the graduate recruitment programme maintain the succession pool.
We are committed to open communications during organisational restructure.
We actively encourage promotion from within and monitor employee satisfaction through an annual Group-wide employee survey.
Other mitigating activities include: Competitive remuneration packages Succession planning Management development and training programmes Regulatory environment The Group is committed to good governance practices.
In addition to ensuring compliance with existing Changes in UK and overseas legislation requirements, we are active in monitoring potential future developments.
We also lobby, often with other and regulation, eg consumer protection, retailers, to support and develop the industry and the interests of consumers.
environmental regulation Changes in UK scal employment policy, Other mitigating activities include: eg minimum wage Membership of industry representative groups Direct engagement with government and regulators Dedicated working parties to manage operational change Currency The Group is exposed to uctuations in currency rates in its overseas product purchasing.
The recent weakening in Purchase of products in currencies other than sterling has already substantially increased currency-associated risk for the year ahead.
We attempt to mitigate sterling, principally the US dollar and the euro these risks through adjustments to customer pricing and opportunities for further sourcing ef ciencies.
Other mitigating activities include: Forecast currency requirements Hedging policies Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 41
