1849 Black Sun ImpTob p16 p17:Layout 1 30 11 09 20:44 Page 16 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Strategic Review continued display, marketing and advertising.
It is expected that further regulation will be implemented.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Group along with all other tobacco manufacturers is often excluded from engaging with regulators on these regulatory proposals.
Any future increases A detailed assessment of strategic in regulation of the tobacco industry could have an adverse effect on the demand for risks within our operating environment our products or increase the costs related is undertaken by management and is to compliance and could contribute to an increase in illicit trade.
Mitigation We employ a number of senior and experienced Corporate Affairs specialists to manage regulatory risk and where possible engage with regulators.
We monitor proposals for new measures globally and Each area of the business is required to analyse them to identify their potential Our principal risks and formally review its principal areas of risk impact on the Group and its products.
uncertainties may be and uncertainty so that major risks are External experts are consulted where reviewed at all levels across the Group.
categorised as follows: necessary to provide advice and guidance This is an ongoing process, ensuring there regarding any impact.
Active membership Regulation are clear and consistent procedures for of industry bodies assists us in clearly monitoring, updating and implementing Excise Duty and understanding the implications of any appropriate controls to manage the change in regulation and helps to make Illicit Trade identified risks.
engagement on key issues consistent Key Market so that opportunities are maximised.
This process is supplemented by the We develop Company positions and Risk Co-ordination Committee which Dependency toolkits and provide training and guidance assists the Chief Executives Committee Competition Law for our markets to comply with regulation.
and the Audit Committee in overseeing the management of material risks.
The Board Tobacco-Related has responsibility for the Groups systems of Excise Duty and Litigation internal control.
A more detailed description of these systems is set out in our Corporate Illicit Trade Financing Governance report.
Overview We are subject to the same general risks Increasing levels of excise duty are likely and uncertainties as any other business: to encourage consumers in affected for example, the political stability in the markets to switch from premium-priced countries in which we operate and source cigarettes to lower-priced cigarettes our raw materials, the impact of natural and fine cut tobacco, or to turn to disasters and changes in general economic illicit sources.
conditions including currency and interest rate fluctuations, changes in taxation Tobacco products are subject to excise legislation, the cost of our materials and duty which, in many of the markets in the impact of competition.
which we operate, represents a substantial percentage of the retail price and has been Outlined below is a description of the steadily increasing in recent years.
principal risks and uncertainties that are specific to and may impact our business.
Substantial increases in excise duty and Not all these factors are within the Groups any significantly unfavourable change in the control.
There may be other risks and tax treatment of fine cut tobacco, if widely uncertainties which are unknown to the adopted, may have an adverse effect on Group or which may not be material now the size of individual duty paid markets but could be material in the future.
Excise duty increases also encourage both legal and illegal cross-border trade from Regulation countries with lower levels of duty in the Overview form of genuine product smuggled illegally, The tobacco industry is subject to cheap whites whereby a small manufacturer substantial and increasingly restrictive produces product paying minimal tax, for the regulatory practices worldwide.
purposes of smuggling and the production of counterfeit tobacco products.
In many of the countries in which we operate, there are regulatory restrictions Illicit trade creates a market that is affecting a wide range of matters including uncontrolled and unaccountable.
As a result, where tobacco products can be smoked children can more easily obtain tobacco and their development, content, products, governments are deprived of tax manufacture, packaging and labelling, revenues and the livelihoods of independent testing, data reporting, sale, distribution, tobacco retailers are threatened.
16 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p16 p17:Layout 1 30 11 09 20:44 Page 17 Moreover, illicit trade may lead to erosion acquisition.
Our extended footprint damages, and may lead to further claims of our brand integrity, loss of potential provides a more balanced exposure to against us.
Regardless of the outcome of earnings, undermine supply chain mature and emerging markets, while our pending litigation, the costs of defending distribution investments and potentially enlarged portfolio includes international such claims can be substantial and may impact our reputation.
strength in cigarette and world leadership not be fully recoverable.
in fine cut tobacco, cigars, rolling papers Within such an environment there is a risk Further details on market specific litigation and tubes.
We also have a leading logistics that we and or our employees may be claims against Group companies are platform in Europe.
This provides us with subject to investigation or other proceedings outlined on page 54. enhanced growth opportunities and by customs or other authorities.
has resulted in individual key markets Mitigation Although we have implemented procedures contributing a lower percentage of the We employ internal and external lawyers to detect and control illegal trading of our Groups adjusted profit from operations.
specialising in the defence of product products, such procedures can provide liability litigation, to provide advice and The performance of our key markets is only reasonable and not absolute assurance guidance on defence strategies and to reviewed as part of our regular business of detecting non-compliance by managing direct and manage litigation risk and review process whereby senior executives rather than eliminating risk.
monitor potential claims around the Group.
responsible for the key markets present Further information regarding certain an in-depth analysis of performance to investigations initiated in January 2003 members of the Chief Executives Committee.
Financing in relation to alleged foreign trading and related violations by a number of people, Overview Competition Law including former Reemtsma employees, The Group has significant borrowings during a period prior to our 2002 acquisition which may impair operational and Overview of Reemtsma, is included in our Corporate financial flexibility and performance.
We have significant market positions Governance Report on page 53. in certain countries.
The Groups indebtedness could potentially Mitigation cause us to dedicate a substantial portion As a result, we may be subject to enhanced We are committed to working with of cash flow from operations to payments regulatory scrutiny in these countries, which government authorities and international to service debt depending on the level of could result in investigations and adverse organisations around the world and we borrowings, prevailing interest rates and regulatory action by relevant competition continue to invest considerable resources exchange rate fluctuations, which would authorities, including the potential for reduce the funds available to the Group in working to counter the illicit trade in monetary fines, and negative publicity.
for working capital, capital expenditure, tobacco products.
Further information regarding an enquiry acquisitions, dividends, and other general We apply stringent controls to our by the UK Office of Fair Trading is included corporate purposes.
It could also limit the customers in the form of our Group policies in our Corporate Governance Report on Groups ability to borrow additional funds and standards, Code of Conduct and page 53. for these purposes and limit flexibility in product supply compliance processes planning for, or reacting to, changes in Mitigation and procedures.
technology, customer demand, competitive The Groups policies and standards, pressures and the industry in which the Our dedicated brand protection and including our Code of Conduct, mandate Group operates.
security specialists operate internationally in that all employees must comply with conjunction with governments and customs competition laws in the countries in which This could place the Group at a competitive and excise authorities to disrupt the supply we operate.
disadvantage compared to its competitors and sales of illicit product.
These controls that are less leveraged, and increase our are supported by sophisticated information We employ experienced internal and vulnerability to both general and industry collection and analysis practices and external lawyers specialising in competition specific adverse economic conditions.
tracking and tracing, product authentication laws to provide advice and guidance Our credit ratings may be adversely affected and volume verification solutions.
regarding interpretation and compliance if this happens and or if conditions in credit with competition laws.
markets are unfavourable at a time when we As part of our corporate planning process are looking to refinance our current sources and at an individual market level we conduct In addition, we provide training and of financing, and as a result we may not regular reviews of our product portfolio to guidance to relevant employees detailing be able to obtain new sources of financing ensure it is aligned to consumer preferences the obligations and requirements of or only be able to do so at higher costs.
in the context of increases in excise duty.
Mitigation The Group has established a centralised Key Market Dependency Tobacco-Related Litigation treasury function, which is responsible for the management of the financial risks of Overview Overview the Group, together with its financing and Any material decline in the performance Tobacco litigation claims are pending liquidity requirements.
of our key markets may impact on our against the Group in a number future profit development.
Further details of the Groups treasury operations and the approach to managing The continued growth of the business is More claims are likely to be brought in the these risks can be found in Note 16 to the underpinned by our key markets including future including claims for personal injury Financial Statements on pages 98 to 111. the UK, Germany and Spain.
Negative and claims to recover the alleged costs development in any of our key markets of providing medical care to individuals could have a material adverse impact with diseases associated with smoking.
on the Groups revenue or profits.
To date, no tobacco litigation claim brought Mitigation against the Group has been successful Our international footprint and brand and and or resulted in the recovery of damages.
product portfolio have been considerably However, if any claim were to be successful, strengthened following the Altadis it may result in a significant liability for IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 17
