BUSINESS REVIEW I m p r o v e r o t i Business review 29 Risk management In addition, the strategy, risk and internal audit teams work together to align activities to ensure that the discipline of corporate Corporate risk management risk management is relevant, valuable and efficiently applied Culture, capability, process and framework across the business.
The management of major risks to IHG is represented below: Strategy: The Global Strategy function provides a strong link to value creation opportunities and asset protection requirements of the business and gives access to the core business agenda.
REVIEW IDENTIFY & RISK PRIORITISE Risk Management: PROCESS RISK The Global Risk Management function focuses on driving action to support the strategy and protect assets by building a risk-aware GROWTH REPORT ON QUANTIFY and proactive culture and capability amongst management, PROFIT GOVERNANCE RISKS CONTINUITY AND CULTURE focusing on risks prioritised by the business leaders.
DEVELOP Assurance: IMPLEMENT RESPONSE Global Internal Audit provides assurance, identifies vulnerabilities AND TEST PLAN AND SOLUTIONS and presents opportunities for new, or improvements to existing, controls that business leaders might not have identified for themselves.
IHG has an established global risk management process and framework embedded in all operations teams and functions.
Our goal is to develop a robust, responsive, resilient process, and a STRATEGY successful, respected, responsible business over the long term.
In doing so we support the main functions of the Board in: identifying and managing risk in alignment with our strategic objectives and the long-term value drivers in the business: and RISK enabling management to demonstrate a responsible and ASSURANCE MANAGEMENT proactive, embedded approach to risk management.
The development of IHGs risk management culture and capability is a collaborative effort led by the Company Secretary.
Our vision is to foster a culture that becomes instinctive, curious, alert, Governance responsive, consistent and accountable.
Risk management activity permeates the whole Group but, most importantly, as part of the strategic review process between the Chief Executive and individual Executive Committee members, Risk identification and crisis response workshops are run with major risks are identified and considered.
the senior leadership teams to identify, prioritise and agree outline plans to mitigate risks.
The output is a risk register Working together to mitigate corporate risk including action plans with risks assigned to each member To enhance the management and visibility of corporate risks, IHG of the Executive Committee.
has set up a Global Risk Working Group with the following primary objectives to: The Executive Committee uses the findings to identify the major areas of risk for the Group and to assign accountability for crossfoster improved risk management across IHGs leadership functional leadership between them.
The Executive Committee teams and improved assurance to the IHG Board: prioritises and co-ordinates efforts to optimise the management create a better understanding of key risks and controls, in of major risks to IHG.
particular, cross-functional risks, which may prevent delivery of IHGs strategy: highlight risks not being adequately addressed: encourage and facilitate sharing of best practice across the organisation: reduce the total cost of risk by sponsoring continuous risk improvement: and monitor and periodically examine risk culture and governance.
n o M M a n a g e 30 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business review continued The key elements of our risk management framework are Risk mitigation activity represented below: There are many risk control measures in place throughout IHG.
However in a dynamic environment it is important to anticipate emerging and changing risks.
The following paragraphs aim to BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE give an insight into this activity.
Uncertainty over liquidity sources continued in the financial EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE markets throughout 2009 and in light of this, but with positive trends in the Eurobond markets in the latter part of 2009, the MAJOR RISK REVIEW decision was taken to refinance part of the Groups bank debt early.
In December 2009, IHG issued a seven-year 250m bond, GROUP RISK REGISTER successfully diversifying its funding sources and extending the duration of a portion of its debt.
In response to increased information security issues, considerable time and effort has been invested in identifying vulnerabilities to security breaches and building capability and resilience into our systems, including the adoption of payment card industry PCI standards regarding data security.
A responsible approach to compliance on PCI has been laid out and considerable progress has been achieved within our data centres and corporate environments.
Franchised, managed and owned properties are also being handled in an appropriate manner to ensure the level of GLOBAL RISK WORKING GROUP awareness, risk and actions for compliance are taken.
In addition, a great deal of effort has been spent partnering with credit card companies and credit card processors globally, to ensure our measures are understood and are sound.
Transparency and oversight of the security programme is carried out by a senior REGIONS FUNCTIONS global council representing all major Group functions.
BUSINESS UNIT RISK REGISTERS In 2009, we have concentrated on updating business continuity and In 2009, Global Risk Management worked with risk owners to disaster recovery plans for the Groups main business hubs and key refresh risk registers and validate risks for continued relevance, platforms.
Recent flood events in the Philippines demonstrated the identify emerging risks and prioritise all risks in terms of financial ability of our Central Reservations Offices to move work around the impact and likelihood of occurrence.
Existing controls were world with little impact on the business as a whole.
assessed as well as the ability, benefit and cost to improve them.
Hotel safety standards across regions, brands and business This work is documented in risk action plans which support the models have been reviewed and transformed into a clear set of risks reported in the Group Risk Register.
global standards, enhancing safety and security further and Global Risk Managements role is to coach, co-ordinate, research enabling greater consistency.
The function also submits regular incident reports The threat posed by a global pandemic was anticipated and and two full reports each year to the Executive Committee and the planned for through documented contingency plans and response Board on hotel safety and security as well as a further report on procedures.
This minimised the impact of the virus.
the major risks to the Group.
Security risks, particularly the threat of terrorism, continue to be a Global Internal Audit is separately responsible for providing significant concern for the hospitality industry as a whole.
IHG has assurance across the Group and provides reports on the internal developed a sophisticated response programme that is intelligencecontrol framework to the Audit Committee.
This ensures led and risk-based.
The security risk environment is highly dynamic separation of duties between the risk management and internal and needs to be managed both centrally and locally in hotels.
In audit functions and hence supports good governance.
common with all risk strategies, there are three elements that IHG Good governance is also supported through the leadership of continues to develop and maintain: physical and technical systems: the Global Risk Working Group by the Company Secretary.
This people capabilities: and processes and procedures.
ensures appropriate access to the Board, its Committees and both Crisis management and communication plans have been refreshed the Chief Executive and the Chairman.
and there has been significant effort to train senior management teams using worst case scenarios.
Over the years a number of serious incidents have been managed in line with these plans.
BUSINESS REVIEW Business review 31 Managing risk in hotels Process and framework IHG has an established risk management process and framework embedded in owned and managed hotels in all regions.
The long-term strategic goals are aligned with the IHG core purpose Great Hotels Guests Love and include three key elements: safety and security of guests, employees and other third parties: brand strength supported by operational excellence in risk management at all hotels and corporate locations: and maintenance and promotion of the reputation of the Company.
Our approach has been to enable and support hotel owners, staff and corporate functions to manage risk effectively.
This is accomplished by giving them a systematic approach and framework to follow and by providing them with tools to do the job.
The Global Risk Management function aims to share specialist knowledge and capability globally whilst being aligned to the operational structure of the business to ensure local circumstances are understood and respected and greater engagement of our people is achieved.
Safety and security risks in hotels A strategic framework for hotel safety and security has been designed for owned and managed hotels and is illustrated below, showing the identified groups of risks and describing the management activities carried out to mitigate those risks.
Hotel safety framework The red wheel illustrates the groups of risks CRISIS & identified and actively managed by IHGs risk SECURITY INCIDENT managers around the world.
They work with hotels and their management teams in order FIRE LEISURE SAFETY SAFETY to minimise such risks and keep hotels safe SAFE HOTEL and secure.
RISK POLICY & STANDARDS PROFILE GUEST FOOD As a result of our holistic approach to risk, we are SAFETY SAFETY able to maintain and develop risk management STAFF strategies to assess and control individual types SAFETY REVIEW WAYS OF & REPORT WORKING of risk.
This has involved developing policies, MANAGING RISK standards and guidelines, raising awareness levels, training staff on controls and systems RISK TRAINING FINANCING & COMMS to be used to manage and mitigate risk and reviewing and reporting upon progress and OPERATE & CONTROL emerging risk.
These management activities are represented by the right hand wheel.
Mitigating hotel safety and security risks Risks are identified at hotel level through various means including intelligence gathering, quality audits, risk management assessments and internal audits.
They are also identified as a result of incidents, customer audits and self-assessment.
Hotel management discuss issues at monthly safety meetings and action plans are developed.
Risks are prioritised, assigned and improvement actions are identified, progressed and monitored.
Action plans are reviewed at appropriate levels in the organisation for issues that need to be escalated either to drive action or to develop common solutions.
IHG believes it has a mature and capable systemic and systematic approach to managing hotel safety and security which both reduces the likelihood and impact of events.
The embedded culture within IHG makes hotels and the corporation more resilient to unexpected or unidentifiable risks.
Major risks to the business The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups strategy, risk management and system of internal control, and for reviewing their effectiveness.
In order to discharge this responsibility, in 2009 and early 2010 the Board considered the 2009 Major Risk Review developed as described above.
32 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business review continued 2010 risk factors The Group is subject to a variety of risks which may have an adverse impact on the business, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition, turnover, profits, assets, liquidity and capital reserves.
The following section describes some of the main risks that could materially affect the Groups business.
The factors below should be considered in connection with any financial and forward-looking information in this Annual Report and the cautionary statements contained on page 117.
The risks below are not the only ones that the Group faces.
Some risks are not yet known to IHG and some that IHG does not currently believe to be material could later turn out to be material.
The Group is reliant on the Any event that materially damages the reputation of one or more of the Groups brands and or failure to sustain the appeal of the Groups brands to its customers could have an adverse impact on the reputation of its brands and value of that brand and subsequent revenues from that brand or business.
the protection of its intellectual property rights In addition, the value of the Groups brands is influenced by a number of other factors, some of which may be outside the Groups control, including commoditisation whereby price and or quality becomes relatively more important than brand identifications due, in part, to the increased prevalence of thirdparty intermediaries, consumer preference and perception, failure by the Group or its franchisees to ensure compliance with the significant regulations applicable to hotel operations including fire and life safety requirements, or other factors affecting consumers willingness to purchase goods and services, including any factor which adversely affects the reputation of those brands.
In particular, where the Group is unable to enforce adherence to its operating and quality standards, or the significant regulations applicable to hotel operations, pursuant to its franchise and management contracts, there may be further adverse impact upon brand reputation or customer perception and therefore the value of the hotel brands.
Given the importance of brand recognition to the Groups business, the Group has invested considerable effort in protecting its intellectual property, including registration of trademarks and domain names.
However, the controls and laws are variable and subject to change.
Any widespread infringement, misappropriation or weakening of the control environment could materially harm the value of the Groups brands and its ability to develop the business.
The Group is exposed to a The Groups growth strategy depends on its success in identifying, securing and retaining franchise and management agreements.
This is an inherent risk for the hotel industry and franchise variety of risks related to business model.
Competition with other hotel companies may generally reduce the number of identifying, securing and suitable franchise, management and investment opportunities offered to the Group and increase retaining franchise and the bargaining power of property owners seeking to become a franchisee or engage a manager.
management agreements The terms of new franchise or management agreements may not be as favourable as current arrangements and the Group may not be able to renew existing arrangements on the same terms.
There can also be no assurance that the Group will be able to identify, retain or add franchisees to the Group system or to secure management contracts.
For example, the availability of suitable sites, planning and other local regulations or the availability and affordability of finance may all restrict the supply of suitable hotel development opportunities under franchise or management agreements.
In connection with entering into franchise or management agreements, the Group may be required to make investments in, or guarantee the obligations of, third parties or guarantee minimum income to third parties.
There are also risks that significant franchisees or groups of franchisees may have interests that conflict, or are not aligned, with those of the Group including, for example, the unwillingness of franchisees to support brand improvement initiatives.
Changes in legislation or regulatory changes may be implemented that have the effect of favouring franchisees relative to brand owners.
The Group is exposed to the The Group is exposed to the inherent risks of global and regional adverse political, economic and financial market developments, including recession, inflation, availability of affordable credit and risks of political and economic currency fluctuations that could lower revenues and reduce income.
A recession reduces leisure and developments business travel to and from affected countries and adversely affects room rates and or occupancy levels and other income-generating activities.
This may result in deterioration of results of operations and potentially reducing the value of properties in affected economies.
The owners or potential owners of hotels franchised or managed by one group face similar risks which could adversely impact IHGs ability to retain and secure franchise or management agreements.
More specifically, the Group is highly exposed to the US market and, accordingly, is particularly susceptible to adverse changes in the US economy.
Further political or economic factors or regulatory action could effectively prevent the Group from receiving profits from, or selling its investments in, certain countries, or otherwise adversely affect operations.
For example, changes to tax rates or legislation in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates could decrease the proportion of profits the Group is entitled to retain, or the Groups interpretation of various tax laws and regulations may prove to be incorrect, resulting in higher than expected tax charges.
BUSINESS REVIEW Business review 33 The Group requires In order to develop, support and market its products, the Group must hire and retain highly skilled employees with particular expertise.
The implementation of the Groups strategic business plans organisational capability could be undermined by failure to recruit or retain key personnel, the unexpected loss of key senior to manage changes in key employees, failures in the Groups succession planning and incentive plans, or a failure to invest in personnel and senior the development of key skills.
Some of the markets in which the Group operates are experiencing management economic growth and the Group must compete against other companies inside and outside the hospitality industry for suitably qualified or experienced employees.
Failure to attract and retain these employees may threaten the success of the Groups operations in these markets.
Additionally, unless skills are supported by a sufficient infrastructure to enable knowledge and skills to be passed on, the Group risks losing accumulated knowledge if key employees leave the Group.
The Group is exposed to the The room rates and occupancy levels of the Group could be adversely impacted by events that reduce domestic or international travel, such as actual or threatened acts of terrorism or war, epidemics, risk of events that adversely travel-related accidents, travel-related industrial action, increased transportation and fuel costs and impact domestic or natural disasters, resulting in reduced worldwide travel or other local factors impacting individual international travel hotels.
A decrease in the demand for hotel rooms as a result of such events may have an adverse impact on the Groups operations and financial results.
In addition, inadequate preparedness, contingency planning or recovery capability in relation to a major incident or crisis may prevent operational continuity and consequently impact the value of the brand or the reputation of the Group.
The Group is reliant upon its The value of the brands of the Group is partly derived from the ability to drive reservations through its proprietary HolidexPlus reservations system, a central repository of all hotel room inventories linked proprietary reservations electronically to multiple sales channels including IHG-owned Internet websites, third-party Internet system and is exposed to the intermediaries and travel agents, call centres and hotels.
risk of failures in the system and increased competition in Lack of resilience in operational availability could lead to prolonged service disruption and may result reservations infrastructure in significant business interruption and subsequent impact on revenues.
Lack of investment in these systems may also result in reduced ability to compete.
Additionally, failure to maintain an appropriate e-commerce strategy and select the right partners could erode the Groups market share.
The Group is exposed to To varying degrees, the Group is reliant upon certain technologies and systems including IT systems for the running of its business, particularly those which are highly integrated with business processes.
inherent risks in relation Disruption to those technologies or systems could adversely affect the efficiency of the business, to technology and systems notwithstanding business continuity or disaster recovery processes.
The Group may have to make substantial additional investments in new technologies or systems to remain competitive.
Failing to keep pace with developments in technologies or systems may put the Group at a competitive disadvantage.
The technologies or systems that the Group chooses may not be commercially successful or the technology or system strategy employed may not be sufficiently aligned with the needs of the business or responsive to changes in business strategy.
As a result, the Group could lose customers, fail to attract new customers or incur substantial costs or face other losses.
The Group is exposed to the The future operating results of the Group could be adversely affected by industry overcapacity by number of rooms and weak demand due, in part, to the cyclical nature of the hotel industry, risks of the hotel industry or other differences between planning assumptions and actual operating conditions.
Reductions supply and demand cycle in room rates and occupancy levels would adversely impact the results of Group operations.
The Group may experience a While the strategy of the Group is to extend the hotel network through activities that do not involve significant amounts of its own capital, if the availability of suitable development sites becomes limited lack of selected development for IHG and its prospective hotel owners, this could adversely affect its results of operations.
opportunities The Group is exposed to risks The reputation of the Group and the value of its brands are influenced by a wide variety of factors, including the perception of key stakeholders and the communities in which the Group operates.
related to corporate The social and environmental impacts of business are under increasing scrutiny, and the Group is responsibility exposed to the risk of damage to its reputation if it fails to demonstrate sufficiently responsible practices, or fails to comply with regulatory requirements, in a number of areas such as safety and security, sustainability, responsible tourism, environmental management, human rights and support for the local community.
34 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business review continued The Group is exposed to the The Group could be at risk of litigation from many parties, including guests, customers, joint venture partners, suppliers, employees, regulatory authorities, franchisees and or the owners of hotels risk of litigation managed by it.
Claims filed in the US may include requests for punitive damages as well as compensatory damages.
Exposure to litigation or fines imposed by regulatory authorities may also affect the reputation of the Group.
The Group may face Historically, the Group has maintained insurance at levels determined by it to be appropriate in light of the cost of cover and the risk profiles of the business in which it operates.
However, forces difficulties insuring its beyond the Groups control, including market forces, may limit the scope of coverage the Group can business obtain and the Groups ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates.
Other forces beyond the Groups control, such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters may be uninsurable or simply too expensive to insure.
Inadequate or insufficient insurance could expose the Group to large claims or could result in the loss of capital invested in properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from properties, and could leave the Group responsible for guarantees, debt or other financial obligations related to such properties.
The Group is exposed to a The Group is reliant on having access to borrowing facilities to meet its expected capital requirements.
The majority of the Groups borrowing facilities are only available if the financial variety of risks associated covenants in the facilities are complied with.
If the Group is not in compliance with the covenants, with its ability to borrow and the lenders may demand the repayment of the funds advanced.
If the Groups financial performance satisfy debt covenants does not meet market expectations it may not be able to refinance its existing facilities on terms it considers favourable.
The availability of funds for future financing is, in part, dependent on conditions and liquidity in the capital markets.
The Group is required to Existing and emerging data privacy regulations limit the extent to which the Group can use customer information for marketing or promotional purposes.
Compliance with these regulations comply with data privacy in each jurisdiction in which the Group operates may require changes in marketing strategies and regulations associated processes which could increase operating costs or reduce the success with which products and services can be marketed to existing or future customers.
In addition, non-compliance with privacy regulations may result in fines, damage to reputation or restrictions on the use or transfer of information.
The Group is exposed to the The Group is increasingly dependent upon the availability, integrity and confidentiality of information and the ability to report appropriate and accurate business performance, including financial reporting, risks related to information to investors and markets.
security The reputation and performance of the Group may be adversely affected if it fails to maintain appropriate confidentiality of information and ensure relevant controls are in place to enable the release of information only through the appropriate channels in a timely and accurate manner.
The Group is exposed to The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level in relation to its ongoing obligation to provide current and future pensions for members of its UK pension plans who are entitled to funding risks in relation to the defined benefits.
In addition, if certain plans of the Group are wound up, the Group could become defined benefits under its statutorily liable to make an immediate payment to the trustees to bring the funding of defined pension plans benefits to a level which is higher than this minimum.
The contributions payable by the Group must be set with a view to making prudent provision for the benefits accruing under the plans of the Group.
In particular, the trustees of IHGs UK defined benefit plan may demand increases to the contribution rates relating to the funding of this plan, which would oblige relevant employers of the Group to contribute extra amounts.
The trustees must consult the plans actuary and principal employer before exercising this power.
In practice, contribution rates are agreed between the Group and the trustees on actuarial advice, and are set for three-year terms.
The last such completed review was as at 31 March 2006, and the formal review as at 31 March 2009 is required to be completed by 30 June 2010.
