18 International Power Annual Report 2009 Our approach to risk and risk management 19 65% Overall, around 65% of the portfolio entered service less than 15 years ago Our risk management philosophy is designed to deal with the diverse set of risks faced by our business and contains both bottom-up and top-down elements to support the identification, reporting and management of risks.
International Powers principal activities are management and treasury operations.
the development, acquisition and operation All of these activities have inherent risks.
of power generation plants together with Our general approach to risk management closely-related activities, such as desalination is set out on the following pages.
This is and local retail businesses.
These principal followed by a description of the principal activities are supported by our network of risks and exposures faced by the business.
regional and corporate offices which carry out activities such as trading, financial First Hydro UK Coleto Creek Texas Shuweihat S1 UAE Business overview 20 International Power Annual Report 2009 Our approach to risk and risk management There is a process for identifying, evaluating In order to compare risks across the Group Risk management framework International Power owns, or has equity and managing the key risks faced by the on a systematic basis, we segment them as Group.
Activities are co-ordinated by the shown below.
In reality, certain risk exposures interests in, over 45 plants and some closely linked businesses located in 21 countries.
Risk Committee, which is chaired by the interact and other exposures apply to more Chief Financial Officer CFO and comprises than one segment for example, regulatory Our portfolio contains all major technologies and fuel types with the exception of nuclear Executive Directors and Senior Managers.
risk applies to all of our activities.
Such cross-segmental risks are assessed in each power.
Overall, around 65% of the portfolio The Risk Committee has responsibility, entered service less than 15 years ago.
of the areas in which they occur.
on behalf of the Board, for ensuring: Geographically the portfolio is diverse, having a presence in developed and developing t he adequacy of systems for identifying and assessing significant risks countries with a variety of cultural, political Financial risks Construction and operational risks and legal systems.
Our risk management t hat appropriate control systems and philosophy is designed to deal with the other mitigating processes are in place Market and trading risks Health, safety and diverse set of risks faced by our business.
environmental risks t hat residual exposures are consistent To reflect the profile of our business, we have developed a system that contains with the Groups strategy and objectives Fuel supply risks Staffing and human both bottom-up and top-down elements resources risks During the business planning process, each to support the identification, reporting significant business unit and functional group and management of risks.
Country, political and identifies and assesses the key risks associated regulatory risks with the achievement of its principal business Corporate level objectives and their potential impact.
During Policy, delegations and exposure limits are the year, significant changes in the risk profile set at the corporate level, with the Board are highlighted through the business of Directors taking ultimate responsibility.
Business practices, and engineering and operational standards, are set centrally.
Each year the business carries out a Groupwide risk review.
This is based on the Regional level outcome of the business planning exercise, updated as necessary to take account of post Market and trading risks are managed regionally within the framework set at business plan events.
The assessments are synthesised into a risk report that identifies the corporate level.
Political risks are also managed regionally with support from all the principal risks, which is reviewed by the Risk Committee.
Where risks are considered the corporate centre.
to exceed the Groups risk appetite, the Risk Committee directs which actions are to be Business units Risk assessments and mitigation action plans taken.
The risk report is reviewed by the full Board.
Schematically, the annual risk report are mainly originated in business units.
Health, safety and environmental HS&E compliance system functions as below: activities are also managed locally and regionally, within a central policy framework.
Local business managers are accountable Review by full Board for managing the risks within their areas of responsibility.
This principle also applies Review by Risk to the managers of our regional and Actions Committee corporate functions.
Synthesis by risk report working group Risk assessment by business units and functions 21 Principal risks Risk Impacts Mitigating factors Adverse conditions in our financial volatility a rolling forward contracting programme typically aims to lock in margins electricity sales or fuel purchase reduction in profitability power sales and fuel purchases markets market spreads outturn and cash flow 34% of our net capacity has long-term contractual arrangements shielding below expectations potential impact our annual Group profitability from significant volatility on loan covenants Price volatility or changes in reduction in financial resources maintenance of financial headroom at the corporate level market conditions result in available for growth trading through investment grade entities exceptional trading credit reduced ability to forward for specific projects additional support is provided, for example Mitsui support requirements sell output provides a credit support facility for International Power Mitsui IPM trading in the UK Counterparty default risk financial volatility application of Group policies and procedures setting limits on trading reduction in profitability counterparty exposures and maintenance of financial headroom at the and cash flow corporate level structuring of project companies as stand-alone businesses and use of non-recourse project finance to limit Group impact Capital market access reduced availability and increased maintenance of strong liquidity cost of non-recourse project high credibility and experience in delivering bankable solutions and corporate financing strong banking relationships with major project financing banks worldwide reduced availability and increased maintenance of stringent project evaluation criteria cost for refinancings Unplanned availability losses reduction in profitability structured approach to the management of engineering and cash flow and site security risk potential impact on project appropriate budgeted spend on plant maintenance loan covenants strong corporate and asset operations and engineering teams Construction contracts adversely commercial terms and conditions long-standing relationships with all major EPC contractors influenced by market conditions more in favour of engineering, ongoing review of contracting strategies to meet changing procurement and construction market conditions EPC contractors new entrant pricing should reflect the cost of building new plant long lead times and delays in construction impacts growth timetable Changes in environmental reduction in profitability plant upgrades and carbon trading processes to meet new environmental regulatory regimes limit our and cash flow legislation in our developed markets ability to profitably operate potential impact on loan covenants new-build plant uses high efficiency turbines with proven environmental our fossil fuel plants increased potential capital technology expenditure to ensure longer asset approximately 6% of net operating capacity made up of wind generation lives under tighter legislation senior representation in industry groups and ongoing advocacy increased trading risk External factors changing weather patterns maintenance of a diversified portfolio, in terms of location, contract type and extreme climatic events can and fuel type impact on demand and pricing These risks are discussed in greater detail overleaf, along with other factors that could potentially have a material impact on our business.
Business overview 22 International Power Annual Report 2009 Our approach to risk and risk management At the individual business level, we mainly Financial risks Our business can be subject to financial finance our projects with non-recourse debt.
We use non-recourse finance as this insulates volatility.
This can originate from a number of sources, including the project company, the Group from adverse events occurring at the project level, limiting our exposure counterparty-related events and general market conditions.
However, our capital on a given project to the loss of the equity in that project.
structure and corporate financial headroom are designed to address these risks.
Liquidity in the financial markets reduced Armstrong Pennsylvania Our business is strongly cash generative and following the fallout from the collapse of the US subprime market and subsequent global in addition, at the corporate level, we have access to loan facilities which provide us with credit impacts.
Although this has increased the cost of non-recourse finance and or a prudent level of financial headroom cash plus undrawn and available credit lines, net reduced its overall availability, we believe that we should be able to continue to finance high of known financial obligations.
These facilities can be applied to various aspects of our quality projects in our key markets.
Following a strong free cash flow performance from business should the need arise: for example, to support growth or trading credit the business, the sales of the Czech business Kwinana Western Australia and Hartwell plant, and the repayment of requirements.
These facilities will meet the short to medium-term funding requirements the debt associated with the US combined cycle gas turbine CCGT fleet, our balance envisaged by the business.
Longer-term funding requirements, or funding for a sheet continues to be robust with sufficient liquidity to pursue growth opportunities.
particularly large transaction, may be sourced from a combination of these facilities and Following the restructuring of the Hazelwood debt and refinancing of SEA Gas, we now suitable long-term instruments, such as bonds, or by raising additional equity.
have no material project refinancings becoming due until 2012.
The actual choice of funding instrument s will depend on the size and nature of the Counterparty risk transaction and market conditions at that time.
In merchant markets we manage our credit exposure to trading and financial In merchant markets, we are usually required counterparties by establishing clearly defined to provide credit support for our trading limits, policies and procedures.
Fuel and electricity markets activities are strictly monitored and controlled periodically experience sharp price movements through delegated authorities and and when these occur this has an immediate procedures, which include specific criteria and corresponding effect on our trading for the management of credit exposures in credit support requirements, which can be each of our key regions.
With respect to our volatile as a consequence.
The maintenance treasury activities, the financial counterparty of corporate financial headroom offers credit exposure is limited to arrangements protection against increases in trading with relationship banks, money market credit support requirements.
funds and to commercial paper that has an investment grade credit rating.
Project development can, on occasions, also require credit support.
This support can take Counterparty exposures arising from sale the form of parent company guarantees or and purchase agreements with our credit support instruments issued by banks.
customers are monitored and managed In the event that credit support facilities locally with oversight from Group treasury.
In are unavailable to support the growth the unlikely event that a counterparty default developments that we are planning, this occurs, we have the ability to continue to sell could require us to reduce our development the power under the contract to the market.
However, a prudent level of In addition, Group treasury manages the corporate financial headroom and strong consolidated counterparty credit positions, free cash flow, together with additional with the active involvement of the Global facilities with banks, should enable us to Risk Manager.
Further information on credit continue to pursue attractive opportunities.
risk is included in the financial statements.
Risks associated with specific power purchase agreements PPAs are included in the country and political risks section.
Page Country and political risks section page 25 Page Financial statements pages 168 and 169 23 Currency and interest rate exposures For 2009 and 2008, average and year In order to mitigate foreign exchange end rates of exchange to sterling, for major exposure within project companies, currencies which are significant to the borrowings of these companies are normally Group, were: made in the currency of the project company Average At 31 December revenues, which is usually the project 2009 2008 2009 2008 companys functional currency.
In addition, in countries with historically weaker currencies US dollar 1.56 1.85 1.61 1.44 Uni-Mar Turkey than those of the major economies, we aim Australian dollar 1.99 2.18 1.80 2.06 to have PPA tariffs denominated in, or Euro 1.12 1.26 1.13 1.03 indexed to, a major international currency Czech koruna 29.70 31.64 29.69 27.77 such as the US dollar.
This protects future returns against large and rapid devaluations Further information on market risk, interest of the local currency.
rate risk and foreign currency risk is included When one of our project companies makes in note 30 to the consolidated financial sales and purchases in a currency other than statements.
its functional currency, this gives rise to a Page Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements currency transaction exposure.
We match pages 165 to 168 transaction exposures, in advance where possible, and hedge any unmatched Investment structures and contingent transactions as soon as they are committed.
liabilities We use foreign currency contracts and similar The capital-intensive nature and global spread instruments for this purpose.
Transaction of our business, together with the rapidly exposures also arise when dividends or growing body of tax legislation, continues other funds are remitted from our overseas to make tax planning and forecasting an investments.
We may utilise these exposures, increasingly complex process.
We closely where possible, to hedge existing transaction monitor actual and potential changes in tax exposures on sales and purchases through legislation in order to assess the continued matching.
effectiveness of our corporate structures and financial planning assumptions.
We Variability in interest payments can introduce are supported by internal and external tax further volatility into project returns.
We experts in making these assessments.
mainly mitigate this risk by fixing borrowing rates, principally by using interest rate swaps.
International Power has a number of actual A limited number of our PPAs also have and potential liabilities arising from certain tax interest rate pass-through mechanisms.
planning assumptions that have not yet been Overall, 77% of our borrowings were confirmed by the relevant fiscal authorities.
protected from interest rate fluctuations We have appropriately provided for those in these ways at the end of 2009. sums that we believe will ultimately be paid.
At Group level, in order to hedge Funding of pension obligations our investments in foreign operations, The Group operates a range of pension plans borrowings to fund investments in foreign internationally, with the most significant operations are generally in the same currency defined benefit arrangements being in the as the underlying investment.
As a result, UK which are now closed to new members any changes in the value of our foreign and Australia.
These schemes guarantee operations, arising from movements in members retirement benefits calculated foreign exchange rates, are offset by a by reference to their annual salary at or change in the value of the foreign currency near retirement, giving rise to a risk that borrowings used to fund the investment.
the accumulated funds will not be sufficient It is not our policy to hedge the currency to meet the obligations.
Retirement benefits translation exposure relating to foreign under our UK defined benefit plans are paid operations with derivatives, such as foreign in the form of a lifetime pension plus a lump exchange contracts or currency swaps, sum.
Substantially all of the benefits from though we do hedge this exposure through our Australian defined benefit plans are paid matching against existing transaction in the form of a lump sum on retirement.
exposures on sales and purchases, where possible.
To the extent that foreign currency borrowings are less than foreign currency investments, this exposes our net assets to fluctuations that are not related to underlying business performance.
Similarly, our Group earnings are exposed to translation exposures on earnings from foreign operations during the period.
Business overview 24 International Power Annual Report 2009 Our approach to risk and risk management The UK defined benefit pension schemes, With total active membership of which have approximately 700 active approximately 550, the three Australian members, carried out their latest triennial plans form three separate sections of a large actuarial valuations on 31 March 2007, industry-wide pension arrangement.
At when a combined deficit of approximately present, the participating employers have 12 million was revealed.
Deficit repair almost no influence over the scheme-wide arrangements were agreed with the trustees investment policy, which has to be adopted of these plans and the Group made deficit by each section.
This situation may be Saltend UK repair payments of approximately 3.8 million reviewed in 2010, following the scheduled in 2007 and approximately 0.8 million in change of scheme administrator.
In addition, following the valuations, the Groups contributions Financial processes to fund the cost of members future service and internal control benefits were increased in line with the We consider that we have an appropriate actuarial advice received.
and robust internal control system for financial reporting and performance Due to the adverse investment market monitoring.
We previously reviewed our conditions since 31 March 2007, relative financial reporting controls to ensure they Milford Massachusetts to the assumptions used in determining were able to meet the requirements of the actuarial liabilities, the deficits in the UK section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act defined benefit plans have increased.
For for the year ended 31 December 2006. example, at the end of December 2009 Although we are no longer subject to the the combined deficit was estimated at Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have continued 73 million.
The next full actuarial valuations to maintain that standard for financial of these plans are scheduled for 31 March reporting controls, and this is supported 2010, at which point their financial position through an annual regime of control self will be re-evaluated and the Groups assessments and certifications by business payments to repair the deficits will almost and function managers, and reviews by certainly increase.
In addition, its contributions Group Internal Audit.
to fund the estimated cost of members future service benefits will be adjusted In order to measure our financial if necessary.
performance, the delivery of our strategy and to provide an early warning of variances The long-term nature of the UK plans, with to our forecasts, we monitor a number of currently few retired members, allows any performance indicators.
The principal financial increased deficits to be funded through key performance indicators KPIs are profit payments spread over a number of years.
from operations PFO, earnings per share As the plans have been closed to new EPS and free cash flow.
entrants, this also mitigates the potential Page Financial KPIs pages 29 and 30 growth of net liabilities.
Our Australian businesses sponsor three Insurance risk management defined benefit plans, two of which are closed Our risk management processes assist us in to new members.
Existing members continue the identification of events that can be partly to accrue future service benefits under these or entirely mitigated through the transfer plans.
The majority of new employees of risk to the insurance market.
Risks that participate in accumulation funds where we insure include, inter alia, property damage employer contributions are fixed.
The and the subsequent business interruption loss employer contribution rates to our defined that follows, statutory risk and legal liabilities.
benefit plans are reviewed periodically, with such reviews typically occurring as at 30 June Our insurance risk management strategy and 31 December.
balances the cost of retaining the high probability, low impact risk events and the The risk of significant increases in the Groups transfer by insurance of low probability, high contributions to the Australian plans is limited impact scenarios.
by the nature of the benefits paid that is, in lump-sum form.
Both post-retirement Regular risk reviews of insured assets are inflation risk and longevity risk, which would conducted with representatives of the each apply were benefits paid as pension, are insurers to ensure the quality of the risk is removed from consideration where benefits understood and improved by benchmarking.
are paid as cash in a lump sum.
25 We have instigated procedures to monitor Framework for trading activities appropriate force majeure protection, the credit rating and stability of the insurers.
Our trading activities operate within a robust we are able to mitigate this risk by ensuring, This will ensure that the continuity of framework of policies and oversight as far as possible, that the price and volume insurance cover can be maintained in the functions.
Trading and forward contracting obligations in the PPA and FSA mirror event of the down grading of an insurance strategies are continually reviewed by regional one another and, to date, we have not company within the programme.
and corporate trading and risk management experienced a significant financial impact due professionals, to ensure they are best suited to mismatches between our FSAs and PPAs.
Market and trading risks to both local market conditions and corporate Our renewable energy portfolio is also A significant number of the projects in risk guidelines.
A Group-wide oversight of subject to fuel supply risk.
The performance which we have an interest operate on a our trading operations is provided by a Global of our growing wind energy portfolio is merchant basis without a long-term PPA, Commodities Risk Committee GCRC which dependent upon wind conditions, which may and are therefore vulnerable to market includes the CFO, the Head of Corporate vary from year to year.
Solar photovoltaic forces including climatic conditions which Finance, and the Global Trading and Risk plant can operate in cloudy conditions as determine the price and amounts of power Managers.
The GCRC acts under the well as direct sunlight, but the total energy sold, and fuel and emissions allowances authority of the Board, and delegates limits output can vary depending on the weather purchased.
In particular, the majority of our and authorities to local risk committees, conditions.
Our run-of-river hydro plant plants in the UK, North America and Australia which have been established in each of performance is influenced by annual rainfall.
In order to limit our trading operations to oversee the our exposure to market movements, and management of market, operational and Country and political risks depending on trading conditions, we forward credit risks arising from our marketing and A number of our projects with long-term sell a proportion of our anticipated output trading activities.
The local risk committees PPAs are in countries that carry a degree and buy the related commodities including include the local Trading Manager, Global of country risk.
For example, in Pakistan, fuel, transmission rights, capacity and and local Risk Managers, Regional Directors payments from the state-owned customer, emission credits.
The key risks facing our and Senior Managers.
the Water and Power Development Authority market and trading activities, and their WAPDA, were delayed in 2008 and 2009, mitigating factors, are as follows.
Fuel supply risks principally due to the effect on Pakistans Fuel supply security is fundamental to our economy of the steep rise in oil prices during Hedging activities business.
Most of our markets have robust 2008.
Good progress was made during Uncontracted output is subject to price and supply infrastructures.
Other factors such as 2009, and the outstanding balances were volume volatility.
To reduce the impact of mines local to the power plant, fuel storage, significantly reduced.
We continually review this uncertainty, we typically operate a rolling dual-fuel capability and sourcing from a our receivable positions and the credit risk hedge programme under which we increase number of reputable suppliers enhance our associated with our PPAs and believe that the proportion of output that is sold forward security of fuel supply.
Consequently, we have further payment defaults remain a low risk.
as the production date approaches.
Whilst experienced very few fuel supply interruptions In the past, some PPA tariffs have been we generally aim to hedge a relatively high that have had an impact on operations.
re-opened by our offtakers and renegotiated, proportion of our output for the following We procure fuel under a variety of contractual but we do not currently foresee the prospect year, this strategy is dependent on market arrangements ranging from long-term fuel of further PPA tariff renegotiations.
Due to market liquidity supply agreements FSAs to on-the-day considerations, we are often unable to hedge Country risk assessment is an important merchant gas purchases.
The principal high levels of output beyond two years ahead.
element of our due diligence prior to determinant of our fuel supply activity is the participating in a project.
We favour projects Our strategy is generally to hedge power need to match purchases to power sales, where the need for power is acute, the sales and fuel, and where applicable carbon, both in terms of volume, timing and price.
magnitude of government subsidy is limited, costs at the same time a matched position.
Hence, we operate long-term FSAs at power and international arbitration is available We do at times run mismatched positions plants where we have long-term PPAs and for resolving disputes.
Once projects are for liquidity or commercial purposes.
This predominantly short-term merchant supply operational, International Power always potential exposure is addressed in our trading arrangements in our merchant power strives to be a good corporate citizen, policies, which limit the potential impact of markets, although the ability to sell power supporting the local, regional and national these trading strategies.
forward does enable the benefit of forward communities wherever possible.
We also purchasing to make best use of market In addition to asset-backed trading, we carry attempt to maintain good relationships opportunities.
This strategy helps mitigate out some proprietary trading trading not with political institutions and our customers.
against fuel price impacts and protects linked to the expected output of our power operational profitability from the effect Furthermore, non-recourse debt plants.
Our non asset-backed trading of fuel price volatility.
arrangements limit our financial exposure activities have strict risk limits and controls to the loss of our equity investment and and any exposures are correspondingly small.
It is not always possible to achieve an exact future cash flows from the project.
Thus, balance between fuel purchases and power whilst the loss or impairment of assets production.
This is particularly an issue for in a project company might affect the some of our projects with PPAs, where the financial performance of the Group, associated FSAs often have minimum fuel other operating companies within purchase obligations.
By structuring the the Group would remain unaffected.
purchases flexibly and incorporating Business overview 26 International Power Annual Report 2009 Our approach to risk and risk management experiences are shared throughout the Construction and operational risks Our policy with regard to new-build is, portfolio, and this, combined with an ongoing maintenance programme, wherever possible, to award major projects on an EPC basis to suitably qualified maximises commercial availability at all our plants.
EPC contracts transfer the majority of the design and construction risks Power plants are characterised by high to the contractor, and provide substantial temperatures, pressures, voltages and protection, through liquidated damages, rotational velocities.
Providing a safe and Umm Al Nar UAE in the event of failure on the part of the secure environment for people on our sites contractor to meet contractual completion and in surrounding areas is a major priority.
Where there We achieve a safe environment by using a is a project-specific need to adopt a riskcombination of engineering and operational sharing approach within the contract, this procedures and standards, provision of is done on the basis of deliverable technical training, performance monitoring and by and performance assumptions and with due employing experienced staff.
In addition, regard to the ability to manage these risks.
we are currently applying an engineering We supplement this contractual protection risk assessment approach to assist in the with insurances.
Deeside UK identification and management of the key The environment regarding the procurement engineering risks across the plant portfolio.
This involves the application of a single of power plant equipment changed significantly compared with 2008, as the method of quantifying and prioritising the operational risks associated with the failure of recent rapid global growth in demand for new power capacity has weakened due to plant components whilst in service and their potential impact on people, the environment the global recession.
Original equipment manufacturers OEMs lead times are now and the business.
The approach involves peer review, benchmarking and information no longer extending at the previous rate and their appetite for taking EPC risk is sharing.
We also continually monitor security arrangements at our sites and adjust these increasing.
There is a risk that OEMs may reduce resources in line with reduced levels as needed to meet changing security requirements and to ensure that the plant and of demand and may not be able to respond quickly enough to a future upturn in the people on our sites are adequately protected.
global economy, bringing supply issues We are a minority participant in a number of to the fore again.
We continue to monitor projects and cannot set operational standards this situation carefully.
In these circumstances we During construction we closely monitor provide support, where appropriate, and use our influence as an experienced plant progress by reference to four major factors: safety, construction programme, cost and operator to try to achieve standards that are consistent with our own.
Once a plant is in operation we ability to influence partners varies.
monitor performance by reference to a number of safety and performance indicators Health, safety and including, for example, accident frequency environmental risks rate AFR, technical availability, net Excellent HS&E performance is critically maximum capacity, thermal efficiency important for our business.
Risks range and forced outage rate.
from harm to our staff, contractors and A key operational risk is unplanned availability our reputation in the wider community, to loss, which can lead to a reduction in enforced plant closures and substantial fines.
Plants operating under long-term PPAs are generally Health, safety and environmental rewarded for high levels of availability, and compliance activities therefore unplanned outages can result in a At plant level, HS&E requirements are set loss of significant revenue.
For our merchant by corporate, local, national and international plants, unplanned outages can result in the standards and regulations, and individual need to buy back power which has been plants operate within site-specific forward contracted.
During 2009, our environmental licensing limits.
We have an portfolio achieved an average technical ongoing HS&E audit programme to provide availability rate of 91.9%, a 2.8% improvement assurance in this area and we monitor closely on our 2008 rate of 89.1%.
This compares the AFR and breaches of environmental favourably to a North American Electric permits.
The AFR and reportable Reliability Council NERC average rate of environmental incidents are amongst our KPIs.
A Group-wide integrated Operations Page Non-financial KPIs page 31 and Engineering Team ensures that our 27 Plant operating and monitoring procedures has remained quite low, with recent auction are effective in ensuring that we comply with prices clearing in the US$2 per ton range.
the conditions of our environmental licences A more comprehensive, federal carbon and consents.
Whilst we have experienced legislation effort has stalled despite strong occasional breaches of our environmental momentum during 2009.
The Clean Energy operating limits, there have been no recent and Security Act Waxman Markey Bill, that incidents that have posed a significant threat proposed the introduction of a cap and trade to the environment, or to our ability to run scheme for CO emissions was passed 2 Pleasants West Virginia our plants.
by the House of Representatives in June, Sites are required to adhere to corporate but was never voted on in the Senate.
HS&E standards and to local regulations.
With Congressional elections approaching HS&E performance is the responsibility of our in late 2010, it is unlikely Senators will be plant managers, who are supported by local receptive to a vote on such major legislation health, safety and environment specialists.
However, the US Environmental Our Corporate Health and Safety Manager Protection Agency EPA has taken steps and Corporate Environmental Manager are towards regulating carbon, which could bypass responsible for ensuring that our corporate Congressional activity.
The EPAs 2009 policies and standards for HS&E remain Endangerment Finding for greenhouse gases now allows it to declare CO a pollutant, and current and are understood by all of our sites.
2 therefore to impose carbon emission regulations.
The Greenhouse Gas Regulation Environmental regulation Environmental legislation is one of the key proposal released by the EPA in September 2009 would impose best available control drivers of the long-term development of the electricity industry.
Initiatives to reduce technologies on all new or renovated power stations.
The extent of the EPAs authority, greenhouse gas emissions are expected to impose increasing commercial constraints however, has been subject to question and.
recent announcements by the EPA have put on our ability to emit carbon dioxide CO 2 Although the majority of our fleet comprises off any specific action on carbon regulation modern gas-fired generation with relatively until 2011.
The EPA has also proposed more low CO emissions, and renewable stringent ozone, oxides of nitrogen NOx 2 generation with nil CO emissions, it is clear and oxides of sulphur SOx rules, although 2 that there will be increasing constraints on these are also unlikely to be introduced this our ability to use fossil fuels to generate year.
We were an active participant in the power.
The impact of carbon reduction Federal carbon legislative process in 2009 measures has, to date, been most apparent and will continue to work with industry at our European plants, where we are groups, Generators for Affordable Power required to ensure that we have sufficient and the Electric Power Supply Association in carbon credits to support our expected levels 2010, to shape environmentally responsible of generation, but carbon trading measures legislation.
The overall efficiency and low are also evolving in Australia and the US.
carbon intensity of the US power generation Certain of our projects have change of law fleet positions the business well in the face protection, which enables us to pass on any of new environmental regulations.
carbon costs to the offtaker.
In such cases the Europe economic impact of carbon risk is removed.
European Union EU member states are In addition, we employ regulatory and committed to meeting existing EU-wide legislative experts who will advocate the legislation designed to tackle climate change.
Companys position during any proposed Under the Kyoto Protocol, the EU is planning changes in environmental rules.
an 8% reduction from 1990 levels in The development of environmental greenhouse gas emissions by 2012, and is regulation in our core regions continues seeking to achieve this through a number of to change rapidly, a brief summary of the measures.
Firstly, the EU Emissions Trading position as at 8 March 2010 is set out below.
Scheme EUETS cap and trade mechanism is designed to promote the reduction of North America CO emissions across European industry.
2 In the US, our assets in New England In addition, the EU Renewables Directive participate in a regional carbon reduction sets individual national targets for the scheme, the Regional Greenhouse Gas amount of electricity to be obtained through Initiative RGGI.
This programme sets renewable sources.
In December 2008, carbon reduction levels for ten state areas EU member states agreed new, longerin northeast US and requires credits be term binding targets: a 20% reduction in obtained for any carbon emissions.
Due to greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 again the economic downturn and a shift to lower from 1990 levels and 20% of energy use emitting natural gas fuels, the price of credits to come from renewable sources by 2020. Business overview 28 International Power Annual Report 2009 Our approach to risk and risk management These targets are apportioned between PWPAs and many of these have change of member states and implemented through law protection, which would enable us to pass new directives.
From 2013, full auctioning on any carbon costs to the offtaker.
of CO allowances is to be implemented for 2 At the global level, there is uncertainty over the power sector across the EU.
Although what will replace the Kyoto Protocol on no global agreement on climate change climate change when it expires at the end was concluded at the Copenhagen talks of 2012.
Negotiations in Copenhagen in in December 2009, these political efforts December 2009 did not produce a legally Uch Pakistan are expected to continue, and in the event binding treaty to reduce greenhouse gas of such an agreement, EU member states emissions.
However, we can expect there have agreed to move to a 30% reduction to be continuing pressure for such an target in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. agreement to be reached before 2012.
Our main risk exposure relates to its assets in the UK, as the continental European thermal Most governments in developed countries assets are operating under long-term have introduced legislation to incentivise contracts with the ability to pass on carbon renewable generation, to the point where costs to the offtaker.
We have a trading desk growth in renewable generation may have to cover the EUETS and manage compliance a material impact on our fossil fuelled plants.
EcoElctrica Puerto Rico obligations under the scheme.
The trading In response, we continued to make significant desk operates within strict internal risk investments in renewable energy during management limits in terms of matching 2009.
We also have dedicated resources to its power sales commitments with fuel review policy and technology trends in order purchases and associated carbon credits.
to ensure that we are well positioned to The Company includes provision for changes participate in the drive towards a lower to such schemes in its negotiation of PPAs.
The major environmental regulatory measure Staffing and human resources risks in Europe for our assets, in addition to those A number of our plants have an aging staff for CO, is the Large Combustion Plant 2 profile.
Succession planning helps identify Directive.
This is expected to be superseded areas at risk, though there remains a risk that by the Industrial Emissions Directive IED employment costs may increase in order to sometime in 2010 and this will take effect in attract enough suitable staff to keep plants 2016.
Details of the IED are not yet finalised fully operational.
Despite the current but we are monitoring developments closely.
economic downturn, there remains Australia competition for well-qualified and The Australian federal government proposed experienced staff, particularly engineers, an emissions trading scheme across most from other power companies and similar industrial sectors the Carbon Pollution industries.
In this competitive environment, Reduction Scheme or CPRS in late 2009. attracting the right staff is a challenge.
By The governments targets are a minimum offering market remuneration and focusing 5% reduction in CO emissions against 2000 on career development options within our 2 levels by 2020, with the potential for this international portfolio, we are still managing target to change to 25%, pending a global to recruit talented staff, though the talent agreement to cut CO emissions.
The pool can be limited in certain skills and 2 legislation proposed that the scheme would geographic regions.
be introduced from July 2011 with a period A few of our sites have high union of ten years where, in effect, no charge will representation.
We have not been affected be applied for a portion of emissions from by industrial action for several years, but this coal-fired power plants, and our Hazelwood remains a risk.
We maintain appropriate and Loy Yang B plants would be eligible for dialogues with staff unions to ensure that we this relief.
The scheme also included a fixed are aware of any potential issues in good time price for carbon, of A$10 tonne, for the first to mitigate our risks.
This proposed legislation has been approved by the lower House but In order to reduce, where required, the threat rejected by the Senate in December 2009. of terrorism, we liaise with local law It is expected to be tabled again in May June enforcement organisations on security issues 2010 in the Senate, though agreement and we also utilise the services of a global between the two main political parties security consultancy, to ensure that our risk looks unlikely at this juncture.
assessments and physical security measures fully reflect local conditions.
Additionally the Middle East and Asia consultancy has the capacity to provide There is no imminent legislation expected in personal security services if required.
either the Middle East or Asia.
Our projects in these regions operate under long-term PPAs and power and water purchase agreements
