Directors report Business review continued Principal risks and uncertainties Interserve operates in a business environment in which a Major contracts number of risks and uncertainties exist.
While it is not As Interserve focuses on large-volume relationships with certain possible to eliminate these completely, the established major clients for a significant part of its revenue, termination risk-management and internal control procedures, which of one or more of the associated contracts would be likely are regularly reviewed by the Group Risk Committee on to reduce revenue and profit for the Group.
In addition, the behalf of the Board, are designed to manage their effects management of such contracts entails potential risks including and so to contribute to the creation of value for the Groups mis-pricing, inaccurate specification, failure to appreciate risks shareholders as we pursue our business objectives.
The Group being taken on, poor control of costs or of service delivery, continues to be dependent on effective maintenance of its sub-contractor insolvency and failure to recover, in part or in systems and controls.
Over and above that, the principal full, payments due for work undertaken.
In PFI PPP contracts, risks and uncertainties which the Group addresses through which can last for periods of around 30 years and typically its risk-management measures are: require the Special Purpose Companies SPCs established by Interserve and one or more third parties to provide for the Market change future capital replacement of assets, there is a risk that such Among the market changes which could affect Interserves a company may fail to anticipate adequately the cost or business are: shifts in the economic climate both in the UK timing of the necessary works or that there may be increases and internationally: a deterioration in the profile of our in costs, including wage inflation, beyond those anticipated.
counterparty risk: alterations in the UK governments policy with regard to expenditure on improving public infrastructure, Among the Groups mitigation strategies are targeting work buildings and services: delays in the procurement of within, or complementary to, its existing competencies, the government-related projects: saturation of or a downturn in fostering of long-term relationships with clients, operating our markets in the Middle East: fluctuations in the proportion an authority matrix for the approval of large bids, monthly of our earnings derived from associates and joint ventures: management reporting with key performance indicators at shifts in the political climate in some of the regions in which contract and business level, the use of monthly cost-value we operate: changes in our competitors behaviour: and the reconciliation, supply chain management, taking responsibility imposition of unusually onerous contract conditions by major for the administration of our PFI PPP SPCs, securing Board clients.
Any of these might result in a failure to win new or representation in them and ensuring that periodic sufficiently profitable contracts in our chosen markets or to benchmarking and or market testing are included in complete those contracts with sufficient profitability.
The Group seeks to mitigate these risks by fostering long-term Key people relationships with its clients and partners, its predominantly The success of Interserves business is dependent on recruiting, governmental quasi governmental medium to long-term retaining, developing, motivating and communicating with revenue streams, careful supply chain management and by appropriately skilled, competent people of integrity at all operating in various regions of the world, including the Middle levels of the organisation.
The members of the management East, where we are able to transfer resources to maximum team contribute to Interserves ability to obtain, generate and effect between the differing economies of that region.
We have various incentive schemes and Group also has in place syndicated and bi-lateral committed run a broad range of training courses for people at all stages in loan facilities.
We constantly monitor market conditions their careers.
With active human resources management and and assess our capabilities in comparison to those of our Investors in People accreditation in many parts of the Group, competitors.
Whether we win, lose or retain a contract we we manage our people professionally and encourage them to analyse the reasons for our success or shortcomings and feed develop and fulfil their maximum potential with Interserve.
the information back at both tactical and strategic levels.
We constantly monitor our cost base and take action to ensure it is suitable given the prevailing market environment.
In 2009 this resulted in some cost reduction initiatives, which are discussed in the Operational review on pages 9 to 17.
24 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 Health and safety regime Damage to reputation The nature of the businesses conducted by the Group involves Issues arising within contracts, from Interserves management exposure to health and safety risks for both employees and of its businesses or from the behaviour of its employees at third parties.
Management of these risks is critical to the all levels can have broader repercussions on the Groups success of the business and is implemented through the reputation than simply their direct impact.
Control procedures adoption and maintenance of rigorous operational and and checks governing the operation of our contracts and of occupational health and safety procedures.
A commitment our businesses are supported by business continuity plans and to safety forms part of Interserves mission statement and arrangements for managing the communication of issues to the subject leads every Board meeting both at Group and Interserves stakeholders.
Each member of the Executive Board undertakes dedicated visits to look at health and safety measures in place at our operational sites and we have ongoing campaigns across the Group emphasising its importance.
Financial risks The Group is subject to certain financial risks which are discussed in the Financial review on pages 18 to 23.
In particular, Interserve carries out major projects which from time to time require substantial amounts of cash to finance working capital, capital expenditure and investment in PFI projects.
Failure to manage working capital appropriately could result in the Group being unable to meet its trading requirements and ultimately to defaulting on its banking covenants.
Interserve has policies in place to monitor the effective management of working capital, including the production of daily balances, weekly cash reports and forecasts together with monthly management reporting.
Interserve recognises a pension deficit on its balance sheet.
The deficits value is sensitive to several key assumptions, and any significant changes in these may result in the Group having to increase its pension scheme contribution with a resultant impact on liquidity.
