38 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties This section sets out a description of the principal risks and Treasury management uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on the The Board is responsible for approving the treasury policy for the Intertek Groups strategy, performance, results, financial condition Group.
The Groups treasury and funding activities are undertaken and or reputation.
The risks and uncertainties set out below, by a centralised treasury function which reports to the Chief do not appear in any particular order of potential materiality Financial officer.
Its primary activities are to manage the Groups or probability of occurrence.
liquidity, funding requirements and financial risk, principally arising from movements in interest and foreign currency exchange rates.
Risk framework The Groups policy is to ensure that adequate liquidity and financial The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight resource is available to support the Groups continuing activities and of the Groups risk management framework.
There is an established, growth whilst managing these risks.
The Groups policy is not to structured approach to risk management, which is described in engage in speculative financial transactions.
Generally, the Group the Corporate Governance Report which starts on page 46.
The seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to manage volatility in Vice President of Risk Management and Internal Audit, who reports profit or loss.
There have been no significant changes in the Groups to the Chief Financial officer and the Audit and Risk Committee, has policies in the last year.
Group Treasury operates as a service centre accountability for reporting the key risks, controls and mitigating within clearly dened objectives and controls and is subject to actions.
Risks are formally identied and recorded in a risk matrix for periodic review by internal audit.
each operating division and support function, which calculates gross risk and net risk after mitigating controls are applied.
The risk matrix Foreign currency risk is updated annually and is used to plan the Groups internal audit The Group operates in more than 100 countries and has 219 2008: and risk strategy.
In addition to the risk matrix, all senior executives 217 subsidiaries, of which 185 2008: 180 report in currencies and their direct reports are required to complete an annual return other than sterling.
The net assets of foreign subsidiaries represent to confirm that management controls have been effectively applied a significant portion of the Groups shareholders funds and a during the year.
The return covers operations, compliance, risk substantial percentage of the Groups revenue and operating costs management and finance.
The Vice President of Risk Management are incurred in currencies other than sterling.
Because of the high and Internal Audit attends the meetings of the Audit and Risk proportion of international activity, the Groups profit is exposed Committee and meets with the members of that committee alone to exchange rate uctuations.
Two types of risk arise as a result: at least once a year.
i translation risk, that is, the risk of adverse currency uctuations in the translation of foreign currency operations and foreign assets In common with all businesses, the Group is affected by a number and liabilities into sterling and ii transaction risk, that is, the risk of risk factors, some of which are outside our control.
Although that currency uctuations will have a negative effect on the value many of the risk factors inuencing the Groups performance are of the Groups commercial cash ows in various currencies.
macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance of the business generally, others are particular to Interteks operations.
Specic risks i Translation risk of which we are aware are detailed below, however there may The results of the Groups overseas activities are translated into be other risks that are currently unknown or are currently regarded sterling using the cumulative average exchange rates for the period as immaterial which could turn out to be material.
Any of these risks concerned.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are could have the potential to impact the performance of the Group, translated at actual exchange rates applicable at 31 December.
its assets, liquidity and capital resources.
EY RATES USED DURING THE YEAR WERE AS FOLLOWS Market risk Assets and liabilities Income and expenses Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign Value of 1 Actual rates Cumulative average rates exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Groups income or 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 08 2009 2008 the value of its assets and liabilities.
These risks are managed by the US dollar 1.60 1.46 1.56 1.87 Groups treasury function as described below.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 39 Material changes in the exchange rates can create volatility in the The Group has a sterling denominated multi-currency bank debt results when they are translated into sterling.
In order to mitigate facility that was placed in December 2004.
This facility was originally this translation exposure, the Groups policy is to match the currency due to expire on 15 December 2009, however the Group exercised of external borrowings to the currency of expected cash ows and its option to extend the facility by a year in 2005 and by a further the currency of net investments.
At 31 December 2009, over 60% year in 2006, so the facility is now due to expire in December 2011. of the Groups borrowings were denominated in US dollars.
"The margins currently paid on the borrowings in this facility are in THE RANGE OF TO OVER, "" 2 N THE 'ROUP RAISED ii Transaction risk a further 75.0m under this facility under the same terms and The Groups policy requires overseas subsidiaries to hedge all conditions and margin and also raised US$200.0m by way of senior significant transaction exposures with Group Treasury where they note issues which have a blended xed borrowing rate of 6.71%."
Subsidiaries transaction exposures include The notes are repayable in three tranches with US$100.0m due on committed foreign currency sales and purchases together with the UNE 53 M DUE ON ANUARY AND 53 M DUE anticipated transactions reasonably expected to occur during future ON UNE N ANUARY THE 'ROUP SUCCESSFULLY NEGOTIATED periods.
"The Groups policy is also to hedge transaction exposures a US$60.0m bilateral, multi-currency revolving credit facility with arising from the remittance of overseas dividends and interest as THE ""ANK OF #HINA, ONDON ""RANCH AVAILABLE UP TO ANUARY soon as they are committed."
Transaction exposures are hedged forward using forward currency contracts which mature in less The sterling equivalent of the gross available and drawn borrowings than 12 months.
as at 31 December 2009 was 488.8m 2008: 519.4m of which 335.6m 2008: 421.6m was drawn and 153.2m 2008: 97.8m Interest rate risk and exposure was available when translated at the year end exchange rates.
The The Groups policy is to ensure that between 33% and 67% of its Group also reported a cash balance of 134.2m at 31 December 2009 exposure to changes in interest rates on borrowings is on a xed 2008: 113.3m.
The borrowings and cash are mostly in currencies rate basis.
This is achieved by entering into interest rate swaps.
The other than sterling and so the value of these can uctuate when balance between xed and variable rate debt is periodically adjusted translated into sterling.
The liquidity headroom is sterling denominated on the basis of prevailing and anticipated market conditions and the and so this can also uctuate depending on the sterling value of the Groups gearing and interest cover, which are monitored by Group drawn borrowings.
The Group has prepared forecasts, including Treasury.
Details of the interest rate hedges in place at 31 December scenarios adjusted for signicantly worse economic conditions and 2009 are given in note 26 to the financial statements.
we have concluded that these facilities are expected to be adequate to support the Groups medium-term funding requirements.
Liquidity, IQUIDITY RISK IS THE RISK THAT THE 'ROUP IS UNABLE TO MEET ITS lNANCIAL The analysis of the debt and a description of the borrowings and obligations as and when they fall due.
Managing liquidity risk is their respective maturity dates is given in note 17 to the financial particularly important in the current economic environment where statements and the currency of the debt is shown in note 26. the availability of capital is limited.
Surplus cash is placed on deposit with short-term maturities The management of operational liquidity risk aims primarily at providing liquidity when required.
ensuring that the Group always has a liquidity buffer that is able, in the short term, to absorb the net effects of transactions made and expected changes in liquidity both under normal and stressed conditions without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
Group Treasury manages this liquidity risk through the use of daily headroom calculations as well as forecast headroom calculations.
Group Treasury is in regular contact with the banks and capital debt markets, as well as other potential providers of debt to ensure a proper understanding of the availability and pricing of debt funding.
40 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Credit risk Risk of financial irregularities Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group if a customer Risk of financial irregularities is the risk that assets of the Group or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual could be misappropriated resulting in financial loss to the Group, obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables as well as the risk of management misrepresenting results.
The Group comprises 219 subsidiaries, operating in over 100 countries.
i Trade receivables Historically, the finance structure was organised on a divisional basis.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade In 2009, the function was reorganised on a geographic basis with a receivables as the Group has a large number of customers which are Chief Financial officer allocated to each of the three regions.
All companies in the Group are required to finance managers have been nominated in all major countries and operate a credit policy under which each new customer is analysed the Group is migrating towards larger, multi-divisional accounting individually for creditworthiness before the company transacts any centres with common accounting systems and controls.
These business with the customer.
Each division has a range of targets changes have further strengthened financial controls and support for days sales outstanding and to encourage and reward good the Intertek as One programme.
performance, these form part of the bonus criteria for divisional managers.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that The Group operates a rigorous programme of internal audits represents our estimate of likely losses in respect of trade and other and management reviews, however, we cannot be certain that receivables.
The main components of this allowance are a specic internal and external audit procedures will always identify any loss component that relates to individually significant exposures and financial irregularity.
The Group regularly reminds the operating a collective loss component established for groups of similar assets company ofcers of their duciary responsibilities and maintains in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identied.
a culture of openness to promote disclosure.
As described above, The collective loss allowance is determined based on historical data each of the senior executives and their direct reports are required of payment statistics for similar financial assets.
Due to the current to complete an annual return to confirm that management economic recession there is an increased risk that certain of our controls have been effectively applied during the year.
customers may face financial difficulties and as a result be unable to meet our credit terms or cease trading.
We have reinforced our Risk of litigation credit checking procedures and have increased our vigilance in Risk of litigation is the risk that the Group could suffer a material monitoring and reacting to changes in our clients circumstances.
financial loss resulting from a legal judgement against the Group or one of its subsidiaries.
Such a judgement could also result in adverse ii Counterparty publicity which could damage the reputation of the Group.
The Group monitors the distribution of cash deposits, borrowings and hedging instruments which are assigned to each of the Groups The Group is regularly notied of, or involved in, a number of claims counterparties and which are subject to periodic review.
and proceedings which are incidental to its ordinary course of business.
Claims can arise in the context of a dispute between the Tax risk parties to a commercial transaction in which the Group has provided Tax risk is the risk that the value of tax assets and liabilities in the testing, inspection or certication services.
Often the Groups role in Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is misstated, the transaction will be incidental to the underlying dispute, but the resulting in financial loss to the Group.
claim will be notied to the Group in order to toll the relevant statute of limitations in respect of such a claim.
In certain situations, The Group operates in more than 100 countries and is subject to a claim may only be notied to the Group after resolution of the wide range of complex tax laws and regulations.
At any point in time underlying commercial dispute and, in such cases, a considerable it is normal for there to be a number of open years in any particular period of time may elapse between the performance of services by territory which may be subject to enquiry by local authorities.
Where the Group and the assertion of a claim in respect of such services.
In the effect of the laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are used either case, because the underlying commercial transaction can be in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on past profits which of significant value, the claims notied to the Group can allege are recognised in the financial statements.
The Group considers the substantial damages.
estimates, assumptions and judgements to be reasonable but this can involve complex issues which may take a number of years to To reduce the likelihood of claims arising, the Group has extensive resolve.
The final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be quality assurance and control procedures to ensure that work is different from the estimates reected in the financial statements.
performed in accordance with proper protocols.
All incidents that could potentially result in a claim against the Group are reported to www.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 41 compliance ofcers and are logged in a database of incidents.
Environmental health and safety risks The Company Secretary reports significant claims to the Audit and We are subject to worldwide laws and regulations governing 2ISK #OMMITTEE, EGAL COUNSEL IS APPOINTED IF APPROPRIATE 4HE activities that may have adverse environmental effects, such as Group mitigates the risk of financial loss arising from litigation by discharges to air and water and handling, storage and disposal of maintaining insurance against potential claims, however there can hazardous wastes and chemicals.
In many jurisdictions these laws be no assurance that claims brought against the Group will always are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more be covered by insurance, or that such insurance, if available, will be stringent over time.
Our operations are also subject to various sufficient to cover fully the damages or other expenses which the health and safety laws and regulations.
We believe that we are in Group may be required to pay.
material compliance with applicable environmental and health and safety laws where failure to comply would materially and adversely Legal and regulatory compliance affect the Intertek Group.
However, there can be no assurance We are subject worldwide to laws and regulations that govern and that breaches of these laws have not occurred or will not occur or affect where and how our business may be conducted.
We have or be identied, or that these laws will not change in the future implemented internal compliance and audit systems to facilitate in a manner that could materially and adversely affect the Group.
compliance with the requirements of the laws and regulations Environmental laws and regulations may also impose obligations affecting our business conduct, and we believe that we have taken to investigate and remediate or pay for the investigation and the appropriate steps to comply with these requirements.
However, remediation of environmental contamination, and compensate there can be no assurance that compliance issues under the above public and private parties for related damages.
If an environmental laws and regulations may not arise with respect to Intertek, our issue arises in relation to a property and it is not remedied, or not EMPLOYEES OR THE CONTRACTORS ACTING ON OUR BEHALF.
ON COMPLIANCE capable of being remedied, this may result in such property either with applicable laws and regulations could result in criminal liability on being sold at a reduced sale price or becoming unsaleable.
behalf of the Company and or the Directors, imposition of significant fines, as well as negative publicity and reputational damage.
Political risk Political risk is the risk that the Group could suffer financial losses Dependence on accreditations due to the action of a government.
Intertek holds accreditations and afliations that manufacturers need for the global market entry of their products.
These accreditations The Group operates in some countries where there is potential risk of are granted by governments, accreditation bodies, manufacturers, political instability which can make it difficult to operate.
In particular, retailers and other bodies to the legal entities operating within government contracts in the Oil, Chemical & Agri division can be Intertek.
Each accreditation has a dened scope and is site specic.
subject to change or termination at short notice.
The Group manages In order to maintain an accreditation, each site is subject to regular this risk by maintaining close relationships with government audits by the accreditation issuer and other associated parties.
representatives, however the risk cannot be entirely mitigated.
Intertek has extensive quality assurance procedures and routines embedded through the Group to ensure that accreditations are Reputational risk maintained and that we uphold the highest standards in both our Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to maintain our testing methods and our business practices.
Failure to retain an reputation in the marketplace as an independent and trustworthy accreditation could lead to loss of business in the relevant industry entity.
The Groups primary business objectives require adherence sector and damage to our reputation.
to local, national and international laws and require all the Groups employees to operate professionally, fairly and with integrity and Loss of key facilities honesty in all business dealings.
Failure to follow these principles There is a risk that assets of the Group could be damaged or destroyed could result in adverse publicity which could harm our reputation by an environmental incident and that the Group could incur loss of among our customers, damage our brand and affect both our revenue as a result of the ensuing disruption to operations.
operational performance and financial position.
A combination of awareness training and targeted controls is in place to encourage Intertek operates facilities in geographical locations which are and monitor adherence to these principles and prevent such events subject to local, environmental and political factors.
Disasters such occurring, however we cannot guarantee that our association with as re, hurricanes, oods and earthquakes can cause damage to any negative publicity will not have an adverse effect upon public property and personnel and can disrupt operations, causing loss opinion and a consequential impact on our business.
The Group maintains disaster recovery plans at key facilities for such events and endeavours to ensure that adequate insurance is in place.
