Risks and Uncertainties Invensys operates globally in varied markets and is affected by The Groups Process Systems business is reliant on the a number of risks inherent in its activities, not all of which are capital expenditure requirements from the oil and gas within its control.
and chemical sectors A substantial part of the Groups Process Systems business The Risk Committee has accountability for overseeing the risk is associated with the supply of technology, software and management processes and procedures, and reports to the consulting to the oil and gas and chemical industries.
Capital Board through the Audit Committee on the key risks facing the expenditure requirements from customers in these industries business.
It also monitors the mitigating actions put in place by are often highly cyclical and linked to the international the relevant operational managers to address identified risks.
supply, demand and pricing of hydrocarbons.
These may As part of the regular review of activities, disclosures in the fluctuate depending on natural events, economic conditions, Annual Report have been revised to reflect the global changes political developments or conflicts involving major oil to the business and the competitive business environment in exporting countries.
Consequently, in addition to the inherent which it operates.
uncertainties of any competitive bid process, demand for products and services may fluctuate significantly based on The principal risks, which could cause the Groups actual the timing of investment decisions made by multinational results to vary materially from historic and expected results, customers.
The business tracks major sales opportunities and regularly The Group faces intense competition, and failure reviews the status of the order book.
Progress against plans to maintain a competitive and technologically is monitored through regular operational business reviews.
advanced product range could reduce its margins and revenue growth The Group is subject to ongoing litigation and Invensys operates in highly competitive markets and environmental liabilities the Groups products and services are characterised by As a consequence of the past disposal of a significant number continually evolving industry standards and rapidly changing of businesses, the Group has retained certain liabilities in technology, driven by the demands of the Groups customers.
relation to environmental claims including the cost associated Failure to keep pace with technological changes and system with the remediation of contaminated sites no longer owned or application requirements in the industrial sectors may by the Group, disputed taxes, litigation including personal result in loss of market share and lower margins.
In addition, injury claims arising from alleged exposure to asbestos and competitors are consolidating and offering a widened product silica, indemnity claims and other disposal costs relating to the portfolio to provide integrated or bundled solutions to disposed businesses.
These risks have receded over time as customers, thus providing enhanced competition to Invensys.
warranties and indemnities in relation to past disposals have expired, existing disputes have been settled and remediation The Group invests in research and development to develop work on contaminated sites has been completed.
The Group new technologies and products to sustain or improve its also has environmental liabilities in relation to the remediation competitive position.
However, all new technologies and of vacant sites owned by it.
All of the above liabilities are products involve business risk in terms of possible abortive subject to a number of uncertainties, assumptions and expenditure, reputation risk and the potential for onerous contingencies.
The Group reviews its portfolio of technologies as part of the strategic planning process.
The Group continually monitors the remaining liabilities, In addition, the businesses control individual development regularly reviews the related provisions and aims in projects through a stage gate review process.
negotiations to limit the risk of future liabilities or disputes.
However, there can be no assurance that the liabilities will The timing and frequency of substantial contract not be substantially higher or become payable sooner than awards, particularly in the Groups Invensys Rail business, anticipated, or that the provisions in the Groups accounts are uneven in respect of any such liabilities will be sufficient if currently The revenue of the Groups Invensys Rail business depends unknown liabilities should arise.
on a small number of large railway operators, such as Network Rail and London Underground in the UK and other large rail Operating in global markets subjects the Group to and mass transit operators in Europe, Asia Pacific and the US.
risks associated with changes in political and economic New contract awards are often associated with major transport conditions and in applicable laws and regulations infrastructure upgrades and as a result are by nature large and The Group operates in global markets, with facilities in infrequent.
Funding for these new projects is often dependent more than 50 countries.
It is subject to a broad range of on governmental investment decisions, and these may be laws, regulations and standards in each of the jurisdictions affected by changes in political and economic conditions.
In addition, a number of its production, result, the timing of contract awards is uncertain and delays in engineering and back office services have been or are in the awards may result in volatility in the results of Invensys Rail.
The process of being relocated to countries in Asia, Eastern Europe business monitors sales activity, sales cover in its order book and Mexico.
and the impact of potential delays on the expected results to allow appropriate mitigating actions to be considered.
Also, a significant portion of its revenue is from customers outside Europe and North America, and the Group has become increasingly engaged with the development of new business in these markets.
This brings increased risk through exposure to the different laws, regulations, political and economic conditions and other variable factors in these growth territories.
26 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 These risks are managed principally through regular Undertaking large, long-term projects exposes the operational business reviews.
Groups business to risk of loss A significant amount of the Groups business involves longThe Group may be subject to liability as a result term projects that can take many months or even years to of product liability claims complete.
These projects may be subject to delays and cost Errors and defects in the Groups products, systems or overruns due to delays in equipment deliveries, engineering applications, which may be used in safety-critical applications, problems, work stoppages, unanticipated cost increases, could cause injury to persons or damage to property and shortages of materials or skilled labour or other unforeseen equipment.
These occurrences could result in claims, loss of problems inherent in the nature of such projects.
revenue, warranty costs, costs and damages associated with product recalls, litigation, delays in market acceptance or The Group has established a process with clear delegated harm to the Groups reputation for safety and quality.
Each authorities for the approval of major contracts which includes business has an established quality control function, and if an a system for the approval of bids submitted to customers.
event occurs there are processes to investigate and manage Contracts with a large monetary value or onerous contractual the occurrence.
Contract execution is monitored against the approved plans.
The Group could be exposed to deterioration in its financial results if the performance improvement The Group may be exposed to additional liabilities initiatives of certain of the Groups operations are with respect to its UK and US pension plans not successful The Group has a high proportion of pensioners relative to its In response to increased competition and in order to enhance active workforce.
With respect to both the Group pension business opportunities, a number of significant business plans for its UK operations and for its US operations, any improvement initiatives have been identified.
The objective decline in the equity market, improvements in life expectancy, of these initiatives is to increase market competitiveness changes in expected morbidity rates, long periods of low by changing the mix of products and services offered to inflation or deflation or future decreases in interest rates customers and by improving operational and manufacturing could increase the funding deficit and require additional efficiencies.
Initiatives include the modification of business funding contributions in excess of those currently expected.
practices and in certain instances the transfer of business The current deficit funding plan was agreed on the basis of a operations.
Although the Group has committed substantial valuation undertaken at 31 March 2008 and anticipates deficit resources to complete these performance improvement recovery contributions being made on a six-monthly basis until initiatives successfully, there can be no assurance that these March 2017.
In addition to regular financial reporting under will ultimately be completed as planned.
IAS 19, the Group regularly monitors the performance of the principal UK and US schemes.
These activities are monitored through the regular operational review process to confirm progress on their implementation If the Group is unable to recruit and retain skilled and to minimise any associated risks.
personnel, it may not be able to effectively implement its business strategy The Group may be exposed to liability through the The future success of the Group will depend in part upon the actions of joint venture partners, cosource partners ability to recruit, develop and retain highly skilled personnel in or its supply chain a competitive market environment for technology companies.
The business activities of the Group are often conducted in The Group has invested in its human resources function and conjunction with joint venture, consortium, codevelopment or processes to mitigate the risk.
cosource partners whose day-to-day management actions are outside of the control of the Group.
The turbulence in the financial markets and the related downturn in business confidence has and will continue A significant element of the Groups risk profile is the delivery to have an impact on general business prospects performance of its supply chain.
Given the nature of the In these circumstances a number of commercial risks are Groups businesses, a quality or other failure in the supply heightened, including a greater risk of failure of a key customer chain could present a risk to safety and delivery which could or supplier exposing the Group to financial loss for example have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, bad debts or irrecoverable costs or business disruption arising financial performance and reputation.
from the failure to secure required components and services.
Assessment, mitigation and management of these risks are If orders are delayed and sales volumes are significantly addressed by the businesses in conjunction with the Groups impacted then there is a greater risk that further restructuring legal, supply chain and risk functions.
Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 27
