Principal risks and uncertainties The Making Sainsburys Great Again MSGA Colleague engagement, retention and capability plan continued to progress from recovery to focus The Group employs around 150,000 colleagues on growth during the year.
To support the growth who are critical to the success of our business.
plans and to fully consider both opportunities Maintaining good relations with colleagues and and risks, a new business strategy team has been investing in their training and development is established, and the risk management process has essential to the efficiency and sustainability of been enhanced.
Risk is an inherent part of doing the Groups operations.
The system of risk management used to identify the principal risks the Group faces, and The Groups employment policies and remuneration to develop and closely monitor key controls, is and benefits packages are regularly reviewed and described on pages 31 to 32.
The management of designed to be competitive with other companies, the risks is based on a balance of risk and reward as well as providing colleagues with fulfilling career determined through careful consideration of both opportunities.
Colleague surveys, performance the potential likelihood and impact.
The principal reviews, communications with trade unions and risks identified by the Board and the corresponding regular communication of business activities are mitigating controls are set out below in no order some of the methods the Group uses to understand of priority.
and respond to colleagues needs.
Processes are also in place to identify talent and actively manage Business continuity and acts of terrorism succession planning throughout the business.
A major incident or act of terrorism could impact on the Groups ability to trade.
Economic and market risks The unprecedented economic slowdown and In the event of a potentially disruptive incident, reducing job security is resulting in an increasing detailed plans are in place to maintain business demand for value from customers.
These plans are regularly updated household disposable income, competitor pricing and tested.
positions and product costs can affect the performance of the Group in terms of both sales Business strategy and costs.
If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not implement its strategies effectively, Focus continues on delivering quality products the business may be negatively impacted.
Strategic with universal appeal, at a range of price points risk needs to be properly understood and managed ensuring value for all our customers.
This is to deliver long-term growth for the benefit of all achieved through the continuous review of our stakeholders.
key customer metrics, active management of price positions, development of sales propositions A clear strategy is in place with five key areas of and increased promotion and marketing activity.
focus: great product at fair prices, accelerating While external cost pressures including oil-related the growth of complementary non-food ranges, costs and business rates affect our business, the reaching more customers through additional Group continues to work hard to mitigate the channels, growing supermarket space and active impact of these cost pressures on customers and property management.
Progress against these on our overall profitability through the delivery areas of focus and any risks to delivery are of cost savings.
regularly reviewed by the Board and the overall strategy is reviewed at the annual two-day Environment and sustainability strategy conference.
The Operating Board also The key risk facing the Group in this area relates to holds regular sessions to discuss strategy.
This reducing the environmental impact of the business activity is supported by a dedicated strategy team.
with a focus on reducing packaging and new ways To ensure that the strategy is communicated of reducing waste and energy usage across stores, and understood, the Group engages with a wide depots and offices.
range of stakeholders including shareholders, colleagues, customers and suppliers.
A number of initiatives are in place, which are being led by the Environmental Action team and the Corporate Responsibility Steering Group to reduce our environmental impact and to meet our customers requirements in this area.
Further details are included on pages 12 to 15.
22 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties continued Financial strategy and treasury risk Pension risk The main financial risks are the availability of short The Group operates a number of pension and long-term funding to meet business needs and arrangements which includes two defined benefit fluctuations in interest and foreign currency rates, schemes.
These schemes are subject to risks in which are heightened by the turbulence in the relation to their liabilities as a result of changes financial markets and the downturn in the in life expectancy, inflation and future salary economic environment.
increases, and to risks regarding the value of investments and the returns derived from The central treasury function is responsible for such investments.
managing the Groups liquid resources, funding requirements, and interest rate and currency An investment strategy is in place which has been exposures and the associated risks as set out developed by the pension trustees, in consultation in note 29 of the Annual Report and Financial with the Company, to mitigate the volatility of Statements.
This function has clear policies liabilities and to diversify investment risk.
and operating procedures which are regularly reviewed by internal audit.
Product safety The quality and safety of our products is of the Fraud highest importance and any failure in standards The Group has a strong control framework in would significantly affect the confidence of our respect of potential fraud or other dishonest customers.
behaviour, which is regularly reviewed by internal audit.
A set of policies are in place to provide There are stringent controls in place to ensure colleagues with clear guidance on behaviour.
Food hygiene In addition, there are whistle blowing procedures practices are taken very seriously and are in place to enable colleagues and suppliers to monitored regularly to ensure compliance with raise concerns about possible improprieties on standards.
All aspects of product safety are a confidential basis.
Internal audit undertakes governed through the Product Safety Committee.
detailed investigations and highlights its findings All suppliers are expected to conform to the to the Audit Committee.
Groups code of conduct for Socially Responsible Sourcing which launched in 1998 and covers fair Health and safety terms of trading, protection of children, worker Prevention of injury or loss of life for both health and safety, equal opportunities, freedom colleagues and customers is of utmost importance.
of association, freedom of employment, hours of work and wages.
Clear policies and procedures are in place, which are aligned to all relevant regulations and Regulatory environment industry standards and adherence to them The Groups operations are subject to a broad is regularly monitored.
spectrum of regulatory requirements particularly in relation to planning, competition and IT systems and infrastructure environmental issues, employment, pensions and The Group is reliant on its IT systems and tax laws and regulations over the Groups products operational infrastructure in order to trade and services.
A failure in these systems could have a significant impact on our business.
There is an established governance process in place to monitor regulatory developments and to The Group has extensive controls in place to ensure that all existing regulations are complied maintain the integrity and efficiency of its systems with.
Regular reviews are completed across the including detailed recovery plans in the event of a estate to ensure compliance and that training significant failure.
New innovations and upgrades needs are addressed as required.
to systems are ongoing to improve both the customer experience and colleague efficiency.
Prior to introducing system changes rigorous testing is completed.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 J Sainsbury plc 23
