BUSINESS REVIEW Global, Political and Economic Conditions Risks and Uncertainties Johnson Matthey operates in over 30 countries around the There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which world including several within Africa, Asia and Latin America.
could have a material impact on the groups long term While benefiting from the opportunities and growth in these performance.
regions the group is exposed to the economic, political and business risks associated with such international operations.
The group encounters different legal and regulatory requirements Technological Change and Patents including those for taxation, environmental, operational and Much of the groups business is focused on selling products competitive matters.
It is exposed to the effect of political risk which are technologically advanced or employ technologically which can include sudden changes in regulations, expropriation advanced processes in their manufacture.
In most cases these of assets, imposition of trade barriers and wage controls, limits products are subject to continuous improvement as new on the export of currency and volatility of prices, taxes and technology is developed.
The group is exposed to the risk that currencies.
The group is exposed to possible natural catastrophe if it does not keep up with changes in the market place its risk, for example through major earthquake or flood, and products will no longer be competitive.
This is both a threat possible terrorist action.
Management monitors such risks, and an opportunity since Johnson Matthey can gain business as maintaining adequate insurance cover and amending business well as lose it.
The groups strategy to meet this risk is to invest procedures as appropriate to mitigate any exposure while significantly in research and development to maintain or achieve remaining in compliance with local and group requirements.
leadership positions in those markets which offer sufficient added value to justify the long term investment required.
Environmental Liabilities The groups results are also impacted by the status of patents.
These include patents which the group itself registers The group is at risk if it causes damage to the environment as and maintains, as well as the risks arising from new third party a result of its activities.
This risk is managed by ensuring that all patents and the benefits that arise from the expiry of third the groups manufacturing facilities operate in accordance with party patents.
All the groups divisions have significant registered the groups environmental policies which are set out on the intellectual property.
The Fine Chemicals businesses supply companys website at www.
The environmental active pharmaceutical ingredients to generic manufacturers and laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and potential can benefit when third party patents expire.
If actual patent obligations on the group to remediate contaminated sites, both lives differ from the expectations of the relevant group business, those currently owned and, also in some cases, those which such as by being extended or successfully challenged, this can have been sold.
The group incurs costs annually in meeting affect the groups results.
The group has established policies both these obligations and also maintains provisions for potential to monitor its existing patent portfolio and those of third parties, liabilities.
If existing provisions are inadequate to cover any taking appropriate action as necessary in respect of infringement.
liabilities or the associated costs arising from environmental obligations this could materially impact the groups results.
Legislation Commercial Relationships Much of the stimulus for the development and growth of Johnson Mattheys products arises from new legislation Johnson Matthey benefits from close commercial relationships governing the environmental or health impact of its customers with a number of key customers and suppliers.
The loss of any products in different jurisdictions worldwide.
This is most of these key customers or suppliers, or a significant worsening significant for Emission Control Technologies where historic and in commercial terms could have a material impact on the future growth depends on global tightening of emissions limits.
Legislation is also relevant for some of the groups other Johnson Matthey devotes significant resources to businesses.
Process Technologies and Fine Chemicals & Catalysts supporting these relationships to ensure they continue to manufacture products to remove contaminants or to produce operate satisfactorily.
From time to time the group undertakes particularly pure chemicals.
Colour Technologies is supported surveys of customer satisfaction which are reviewed by the by legislation phasing out lead, cadmium and other heavy metals board.
Some of the relationships are supported by long term from glass and ceramic glazes.
The development of the fuel cells contracts, notably the groups relationship with Anglo Platinum.
industry is also impacted by clean air regulations and the drive towards zero emissions within both local and national legislation.
Foreign Exchange Whilst the group has benefited considerably from the Johnson Matthey operates globally with the majority of the development of such legislation its growth could be adversely groups operating profit earned outside the UK.
It has significant affected if the pace of legislative change slowed significantly.
investments outside the UK with the single largest investment Johnson Matthey monitors the development of legislation being in the USA.
As such the group is exposed to movements globally and coordinates its development work to ensure it can in exchange rates between sterling and other world currencies, achieve greatest advantage from each new requirement.
Regular particularly the US dollar, which could adversely or positively reviews are undertaken at the business and group level to impact results.
The groups policies for managing its foreign monitor growth and to investigate other areas of potential if currency exposures are set out in more detail on pages 15 legislation slows.
26 - Johnson Matthey Precious Metal Prices and Controls products and improved production processes to allow the group to be at the forefront of its chosen markets.
The group A large proportion of the groups activities involve managing also continually works to streamline its cost base to ensure it precious metals which have inherent risks associated with them remains competitive.
in addition to bringing valuable business opportunities.
While the group could be vulnerable to a global disruption Litigation and Investigations in the supply of platinum group metals, it has access to world markets for these metals and is not dependent on any one The group is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and source for obtaining supplies for operations.
standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Precious metals have high prices which can fluctuate Failure to comply properly with these laws, regulations and significantly and this can have a material impact on Johnson standards could significantly damage the reputation and Mattheys results.
The groups policies for managing this risk are performance of Johnson Matthey.
set out in more detail on page 15.
The high value of precious Regular internal reviews are undertaken to assess compliance metals means that any process losses could be material and with local and group policies, and provisions are made to rectify or there remains the possibility of theft or fraud.
Johnson Matthey compensate for any breaches.
In the ordinary course of business, has extensive experience in operating with precious metals and Johnson Matthey is subject to inspections and monitoring by employs strict security, assay and other process controls and certain regulatory or enforcement bodies and by the quality reviews to minimise any exposure.
Policies are reviewed departments of some of its major customers.
If existing regularly by the Chief Executives Committee and reported to provisions are inadequate to cover any liabilities arising from such the Audit Committee.
investigations this could materially impact the groups results.
Pensions Energy and Raw Materials The groups defined benefit pension funds had a net deficit at The groups products contain a broad array of raw materials 31st March 2009 of 111.5 million.
This position is exposed to and its operations require significant levels of energy, notably the risk of changes in interest rates and the market values of electricity and natural gas.
Any increases or volatility in prices investments as well as inflation and increasing longevity of the and any significant decrease in the availability of energy or raw members.
The assumptions used in calculating the funding materials could affect the groups results.
Johnson Matthey position of the pension funds are shown in detail on page 74. coordinates its global purchasing activities to obtain the best These risks are mitigated by paying appropriate contributions possible prices and uses hedging and other contractual means into the funds and through an investment asset allocation policy where appropriate to minimise this risk and to benefit where which has a high level of probability of avoiding a material possible.
The high price of oil also benefits the group by deficit based on the results of an asset liability matching study.
stimulating demand for new catalysts and technologies supplied by Process Technologies.
Customer Market Dynamics Credit Risk The group sells products to manufacturers who in turn use these products to serve a diverse range of end markets.
The The group derives a significant proportion of its revenue from groups performance is therefore impacted by the dynamics of sales to major customers, particularly in Emission Control its customers end markets and their performance within these Technologies.
Sales to individual customers are frequently high if markets.
A significant loss of market share at or by a major the value of precious metals is included in the price.
The failure automotive customer could negatively impact the groups of any such company to honour its debts could materially results.
The group also has exposure to the wider automotive impact the groups results.
sector as a whole which is served by a number of the groups Johnson Matthey derives significant benefit from trading divisions.
In 2008 09 global car production is estimated to have with its large customers and manages the risk at many levels.
fallen by 13% which has had a significant effect on the sales of Each business and division has a credit committee that regularly Johnson Mattheys products.
However, other factors such as monitors its exposure.
The Audit Committee receives a report tightening emissions legislation and the increasing technical every six months that details all significant credit limits, amounts demands from catalysts also play a significant role.
due and amounts overdue within the group and the relevant Risks are mitigated by monitoring both industry actions being taken.
As at 31st March 2009, no single developments and market share at customers to prevent the outstanding balance exceeded 1% of the groups revenue.
The group from becoming unduly dependent on any single customer.
groups exposure to Chrysler LLC, which filed under Chapter 11 in the US Bankruptcy Court on 30th April 2009, was less Competitor Risk than US $5 million, some of which was covered by insurance and indemnities from other suppliers.
The groups exposure to The group operates in highly competitive markets.
Significant General Motors Corporation in the US is very small.
Further product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of details of the groups credit control procedures are set out on price competition could all adversely affect the groups results.
Johnson Matthey invests significant resources in research and development in order to ensure the introduction of both new Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 27 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Jennifer Tweddle, who joined our Process Technologies business Johnson Matthey manufactures catalysts to control harmful NOx through a Johnson Matthey sponsored Young Scientist programme.
emissions from coal fired power stations.
Team building initiatives at Johnson Matthey Malaysia.
Selective catalytic reduction SCR system to control NOx emissions from diesel engines used to generate power for Catalina Island, California, USA.
Generating Genius students Johnson Matthey supports Generating Genius, a UK based charitable programme which promotes science careers to young people.
