OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 33 RISK FACTORS The significant risks identied by Kazakhmys are those that could materially affect the Groups financial condition, performance, strategies and prospects.
These should be carefully considered in conjunction with the cautionary statement set out on the inside back cover.
There may be other risks unknown, or currently believed immaterial, by Kazakhmys which could turn out to be material.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Health, safety and the environment Action Mining is a hazardous industry and failure to adopt and embed Kazakhmys recognises that the highest standards of health, safety, health, safety and environmental management systems could result environmental and community practices are vital to its success, in harm to Kazakhmys employees, the environment and the and are a key responsibility of all employees.
The Groups policies communities in which the Group operates as well as fines and and procedures in these areas are designed to identify relevant penalties and damage to its reputation.
Policies and measures risks and opportunities and provide a clear framework for at a national and international level to tackle climate change conducting business.
Further details are set out in the will increasingly affect the business, presenting environmental Corporate Responsibility Report commencing on page 50. and regulatory risks.
Impact Health, safety and environmental incidents could lead to a number of adverse consequences, including harm to people, the environment and communities near Kazakhmys operations as well as production disruption, reputational damage and financial loss.
Business interruption Action The business of mining, smelting and rening metals and the Work is being carried out across the Group, with the support production of power is resource intensive, and involves a number of appropriate in-house and third party specialists, to address of risks, including, but not limited to, geological and technological operational risk issues.
The Group is partially protected from the challenges, weather and other natural phenomena such as ood loss of key assets by the availability of geographically diversied and earthquake, res, explosions, equipment failure, delays in operations and access to multiple power sources.
supplies and loss of key inputs including electricity, water, coal, The Groups insurance coverage can provide protection from which can cause prolonged mine or plant shutdowns or periods some, but not all, of the costs that may arise from unforeseen of reduced production.
A combined property damage and business interruption Impact catastrophic insurance programme is in place which can provide Any disruption to operational activities could have a negative impact protection from some of the financial impact of a major incident on the Groups profitability and cash flows, and may require the at the Groups main concentrating, smelting and rening facilities, Group to make large unplanned capital expenditures.
In addition and power stations.
to revenue losses, long-term business interruption could result in a loss of customers and reputational damage.
Assets controlled by third parties and joint ventures Action Kazakhmys holds a 26% investment in ENRC PLC.
The business Kazakhmys monitors the business and financial performance and financial performance of this investment is not controlled by of its 26% investment in ENRC PLC.
The Group has the ability the Group.
Furthermore in 2010, the Group has entered into a joint to exercise its rights as the single largest shareholder of ENRC PLC.
venture arrangement in respect of the ownership and management Kazakhmys seeks to ensure that the appropriate governance of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station.
structures are in place to manage its Power joint venture in Impact accordance with the Groups business interests and that they Decisions made by the board of ENRC PLC could have a material are consistent with the Groups policies and standards.
Under impact on the reported earnings of Kazakhmys.
Furthermore, changes the terms of the joint venture arrangement, Kazakhmys is entitled in market or macroeconomic conditions could impact the cash ows to appoint the operational management of the Power plant until and the valuation of Kazakhmys investment in ENRC PLC.
2015, overseen by a supervisory board consisting of representatives of both joint venture partners.
The Groups partner in the Ekibastuz GRES-1 joint venture may have business interests inconsistent with those of the Group and may exercise its right to block certain actions.
The partner may take actions which are inconsistent with the Groups policies or standards.
34 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Business Review RISK FACTORS CONTINUED New projects Action The development of new projects involves many risks including Prior to an investment decision being made, certain activities geological, engineering, nancing and regulatory risks.
If the Group are performed including, where appropriate, feasibility and other fails to adopt an appropriate procurement and project management technical studies.
The Group ensures that sufficient expertise, strategy, it may experience delays to project schedules and an from both in-house and third party specialists, is utilised on increase in costs.
Regulatory risks include failure to obtain and projects throughout their life cycle.
Furthermore, there are maintain applicable permits, licences or approvals from the procedures in place addressing areas such as budgeting relevant authorities to carry out or operate certain works.
and management of capital expenditure projects.
Impact Projects may fail to achieve the desired economic returns due to an inability to recover mineral reserves and higher than expected capital and operating costs.
Projects may also suffer delays which result in a financial loss to the Group.
Political risk Action Most of the Groups mining and power operations are in Kazakhstan.
The Government of Kazakhstan has actively pursued a programme Accordingly, the Group is substantially dependent on the of economic reform, helping to make it one of the most politically social, political, economic, legal and scal conditions prevailing stable and economically developed countries in Central Asia.
The Government of Kazakhstan has representation on the Board of Kazakhmys and is a significant shareholder in the Group.
Impact The Board continues to view the political, social and economic Changes to Kazakhstans foreign trade export and import, foreign environment within Kazakhstan favourably, and looking forward, investments, property, tax, environmental or mining regimes or remains optimistic about the conditions for business in the region.
other changes that affect the supportive business environment in Kazakhstan could negatively affect the Groups business, Kazakhmys maintains a proactive dialogue with the Government financial position and performance.
of Kazakhstan across a range of issues.
Subsoil use rights Action In Kazakhstan and certain other countries in which the Group The Groups management makes every effort to engage with operates, all subsoil reserves belong to the State.
Subsoil use the relevant regulatory authorities and ensure compliance with rights are not granted in perpetuity, and any renewal must be all relevant legislation and subsoil use contracts.
agreed before the expiration of the relevant contract or licence.
Rights may be terminated if the Group does not satisfy its licensing or contractual obligations, which may include periodic payment of royalties to State authorities and the satisfaction of mining, development, environmental, health and safety requirements.
Impact As many of Kazakhstans subsoil use laws have been adopted relatively recently, the legal consequences of a given breach may not be predictable.
However, non-compliance with the requirements of subsoil use contracts could potentially lead to regulatory challenges and subsequently to fines litigation and ultimately to the loss of operating licences.
The loss of any of the Groups subsoil use rights could have a material adverse effect on its mining operations.
Reserves and resources Action Kazakhmys ore reserves for operating mines and development Kazakhmys engages the services of independent experts to review projects are largely based on the estimation method for reserves reserve calculations for operating mines and development projects, and resources established by the former Soviet Union.
There are normally on an annual basis.
For more details refer to page 158. numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, and A project is underway to digitise selected mine reserves which geological, technical and economic assumptions that are valid will be used in the future for revised estimates of reserves and at the time of estimation may change signicantly when new to support improved estimation of ore grades and mine planning.
Impact Changes in reserves could adversely impact mine plans and the economic viability of projects resulting in economic losses, negatively impacting the Groups financial position and performance.
com 35 FINANCIAL RISKS Commodity prices Action Kazakhmys results are strongly inuenced by commodity prices The Group keeps under regular review its sensitivity to uctuations which are dependent on a number of factors impacting world supply in commodity prices, and a sensitivity analysis showing the impact and demand.
Due to these factors, commodity prices may be subject on profits of a 10% movement in commodity prices is set out to significant uctuations from year to year.
The Groups normal policy on page 23.
The Group does not as a matter of course hedge is to sell its products under contract at prices determined by reference commodity prices, but may enter into a hedge programme for to prevailing market prices on international global metal exchanges.
certain commodities where the Board determines it is in the Commodity price uctuations can also have an impact on demand Groups interest to provide greater certainty over future cash for specialist staff, equipment, materials and supplies in the mining ows, as was the case in 2009.
In response to the reduction in sector, which can cause skills and material shortages and create cost commodity prices, the Group took a number of actions to control pressure on the Groups operating and capital costs, which affect costs of which further details are set out in the Business Review financial performance.
Impact Commodity prices can uctuate widely and could have a material impact on the Groups asset values, revenues, earnings and cash flows.
In addition, commodity price increases could cause supply or capacity constraints in areas such as specialist staff or mining equipment.
Liquidity risk Action The Group is exposed to liquidity risks, including the risk that The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate borrowing facilities are not available to meet cash requirements, committed borrowing facilities and working capital funds.
and the risk that financial assets cannot readily be converted to The Board monitors the net debt level of the Group taking into cash without the loss of value.
consideration the expected outlook of the Group.
The Group has also secured funding for Bozshakol and selected medium-sized Impact projects.
Further details are set out in the Financial Review on Failure to manage nancing risks could have a material impact page 46. on the Groups cash ows, earnings and financial position as well as reducing the funds available to the Group for working capital, capital expenditure, acquisitions, dividends and other general corporate purposes.
Taxation Action As the tax legislation in Kazakhstan has been in force for a relatively The Group makes every effort to comply with tax legislation, short period of time, tax risks in Kazakhstan are substantially greater and works closely with the tax authorities to ensure compliance.
than typically found in countries with more developed tax systems.
Further details are set out in the Financial Review on page 47.
Tax law is evolving and is subject to different and changing interpretations, as well as inconsistent enforcement.
Tax regulation and compliance is subject to review and investigation by the authorities who may impose severe fines, penalties and interest charges.
Impact The uncertainty of interpretation and application, and the evolution, of tax laws create a risk of additional and substantial payments of tax by the Group, which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups cash ows, earnings and financial position.
