King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts Risks 25 2008 09 Given the scale and diversity of our businesses, the Board of Directors recognises that the nature, scope and potential impact of our key business and strategic risks is subject to constant change.
As such, the Board has implemented the necessary framework to ensure that it has suf cient visibility of the Groups key risks and the opportunity to regularly review the adequacy and effectiveness of our mitigating controls and strategies.
The Corporate governance report on pages 34 to 38 describes the systems and processes through which the directors manage and mitigate risks.
The Board considers that the principal risks to achieving its objectives are set out below.
Risk Description Action China fails to deliver Although the Company has established a We have completed an in-depth strategic review of our the desired return signi cant market share and brand presence operations in China and implemented a number of key actions in our key Chinese consumer markets the including: measures to strengthen the management team, business has not delivered the desired return a stock clearance plan to release working capital and a store on invested capital.
This has been exacerbated re-organisation plan to ensure that our store formats are by the slowdown in Chinas economic suitably positioned to meet a challenging trading outlook.
growth and the impact this has had on the domestic property market, both of The new management team is supported by Peter Hogsted, which have signi cantly affected trading.
CEO, International and his colleagues on King shers executive team.
Peter and the team have nalised, and are in the process of implementing, a comprehensive repositioning plan to ensure that the B&Q China proposition is more aligned with our customers needs in order to provide a sustainable and long-term return.
See pages 2, 8 and 21 for more information.
Contracting consumer The ongoing global economic crisis will We have implemented appropriate actions to release value, markets, exacerbated continue to present a dif cult trading outlook drive increased sales densities, improve our pro t margin by worsening across the retail sector.
Our ability to deliver and reduce our investment and working capital requirements economic conditions, the desired return in contracting consumer across the Group.
will impact sales markets will be particularly challenging if the downturn is exacerbated by the stagnation Similarly, we have completed the necessary scenario and of the housing and construction sectors and contingency planning initiatives to mitigate the impact of a the inability of both the retail and commercial continued worsening of the economic climate.
banking industry to offer affordable loan facilities to both customers and suppliers.
We are committed to continued enhancement of our customer offer, through product innovation, improved customer service and store environment, combined with an aggressive commitment to driving cost ef ciencies and reducing cost to sales ratio.
This will ensure that we continue to consolidate our market share, whilst maintaining a robust balance sheet and healthy cash ows, should we enter a period of potentially prolonged economic recession.
KF6878 Front v06e 170409. indd KF6878 Front v06e 170409. indd 25 25 18 4 09 18 4 09 09:59:17 09:59:17 King sher plc Annual Report 26 Risks and Accounts 2008 09 Risk Description Action Our systems and supply Our ability to deliver the targets set by our We have embarked on a programme to ensure that we chain infrastructures lack seven steps to Delivering Value strategy focus our information technology resources on a combination the exibility and capability will undoubtedly place increasing demands of making the necessary investment to maintain or extend to support the delivery on our existing supply chain and systems the useful lives of our existing technologies and developing of our strategic plans infrastructure and technologies.
There is a risk solutions that directly support revenue generative opportunities.
that our infrastructure will lack the necessary Where possible, we are also seeking to eliminate complex scalability, exibility and resilience to support or heavily bespoke technologies that may hold back new its successful execution.
As we consolidate our divisional management structures we are looking to identify and implement ef ciencies and opportunities to leverage our capabilities across our supply chain.
For example, we are currently integrating ful lment ef ciencies across our home delivery operations in the UK, and investing in direct import logistics solutions for our Eastern European businesses.
We do not implement the The successful execution of the Delivering The new divisional management structure is collectively measures and disciplines Value programme is the basis on which we responsible for delivering the Groups results and implementing to effectively assess will assess our progress in delivering our key Group-wide initiatives.
the shareholder value priorities of managing working capital, cash, delivered through the costs, investment capital and returns to our Appropriate corporate planning processes are in place to Delivering Value shareholders.
There is a risk that we do not ensure that our operating company and divisional strategies programme implement effective criteria against which to are aligned and contribute to the Delivering Value programme.
monitor, manage and report our progress in achieving the programmes aims and objectives.
Individual operating companies are responsible for implementing the necessary processes and procedures to monitor the ef ciency, economy and effectiveness of the delivery of its strategic plans.
We fail to take advantage There is a risk that we fail to unlock We have introduced challenging targets across our major of our combined buying the potential to generate real shareholder operating companies to ensure we have identi ed those power synergies value through the optimisation of combined categories that will bene t most, in terms of optimising cash and economies of scale purchasing and commercial synergies.
margin gains, from a more collective approach to both international contract negotiations and own-brand opportunities.
Increased alignment of products, sourcing, and packaging strategies for our major own-brand products continue to drive cost price reduction opportunities, particularly across our MacAllister and Performance Power ranges.
The King sher Sourcing Organisation has been structured to offer signi cantly improved direct sourcing opportunities for our operating companies located in emerging markets.
See the Group buying programmes section on page 17 for more information.
KF6878 Front v06e 170409. indd KF6878 Front v06e 170409. indd 26 26 21 4 09 21 4 09 17:32:47 17:32:47 King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 27 2008 09 Risk Description Action We are unable to secure The ongoing scarcity of investment capital, The Board, assisted by the Groups treasury department and external nancing at a due to the breakdown in the international the Treasury Committee, is responsible for the ongoing review commercially viable rate wholesale money markets, is likely to impact and monitoring of our capital structure to ensure that the the willingness and ability of the banking Group can meet its nancing requirements and is compliant sector to offer debt nancing facilities at a with banking covenants.
This may impact and restrict our options with regards to investment We have introduced robust measures to ensure the most decisions and funding market entry ef cient use of resources.
These include higher hurdle rates opportunities in new or emerging markets.
and enhanced payback periods for capital, a working capital reduction strategy and an increased emphasis on ensuring we optimise and leverage our assets and property portfolio across the Group.
We are also committed to maintaining our debt at, or below, current levels and have committed to use the proceeds from the sale of our Italian business to further reduce debt.
We do not make the Retail is fundamentally a people business We continue to invest in our people through an ongoing necessary investment in and there is a risk that, given the economic commitment to maintaining our store standards via effective our people to ensure that pressures we are currently facing, we fail staff training programmes.
For example, in the UK, we have we have the appropriate to maintain the necessary investment partnered with City & Guilds to deliver nationally accredited calibre of staff, skills in our people to ensure that we have the and recognised quali cations and apprenticeship schemes.
and experiences across appropriate calibre of staff for speci c roles the Group and that skills and experiences are deployed We remain committed to the ongoing assessment and in the best interests of the individual, measurement of our peoples engagement with the the operating company and the Group.
Engagement surveys are completed bi-annually across the Group.
We have also introduced new elements to our share-based long-term incentive plans across our business, to ensure that senior management rewards are aligned with our targeted performance and earnings growth.
See the People section on page 16 for more information.
KF6878 Front v06e 170409. indd KF6878 Front v06e 170409. indd 27 27 18 4 09 18 4 09 09:59:18 09:59:18 King sher plc Annual Report 28 Risks and Accounts 2008 09 Risk Description Action The potential impact to As our customers become more King sher is committed to a long-term investment in promoting King shers reputation, knowledgeable about the environmental ethics, social responsibility and environmental sustainability.
arising from a major and social impact of our businesses, we environmental or ethical are increasingly being asked to provide King shers Future Homes strategy sets out a policy and failure both products and product information framework for integrating sustainability into the business, that support our intent to operate an and includes speci c standards and targets for all environmentally sustainable and ethically operating companies.
As a result, the risks to our reputation, arising from a major A CR risk assessment tool has been developed to help environmental or ethical failure, increase our operating companies identify and manage CR risks exponentially.
We also engage with key non-governmental organisations and industry forums e. g. Forum for the Future, FTSE4Good and Business in the Community to ensure that we are at the forefront of the environmental debate and assume a leadership position amongst our peers.
For more details see the Corporate responsibility section on page 18.
The risk of penalties or The geographic, political and cultural diversity Individual operating companies, supported where necessary punitive damages arising of the markets in which we operate exposes by the corporate affairs department, are responsible for ensuring from failure to comply us to wide ranging and complex legal and that they have access to suf cient legal and governance resource.
with new legislative or regulatory frameworks.
There is a danger that regulatory requirements we do not understand the risks associated Operational management are also responsible for liaising with with either existing or proposed changes to either local legal resources or the corporate affairs department legislative requirements across the jurisdictions to resolve any potential issues arising from new legislation or any in which we operate.
suspected breaches of existing legislation or Group policies.
Where new operating companies are either acquired or created, formal Group fide ned governance structures are established from the outset.
At a minimum, these provide guidance regarding Board, and Audit Committee processes and procedures, the implementation of which are subject to a review by the Director of Corporate Affairs and the internal audit department.
Impact of a major health There is a risk that repeated health and safety With over 80,000 employees and six million customers and safety failure affects failures could result in a major incident or visiting our stores each week, robust health and safety our reputation and fatality that is directly attributable to either systems are a priority.
results in harm to our a systematic or institutionalised failure in employees, penalties our health and safety management systems.
While regulatory requirements vary from country to country, or prosecution This would result in damage to our reputation each operating company is required to designate a director through adverse publicity, prosecution with speci c responsibility for health and safety.
is then responsible for ensuring that a written health and safety policy is communicated to all staff, that appropriate health and safety arrangements are in place to protect our employees and that we comply with local regulatory requirements.
The ultimate responsibility within each operating company remains with the local Managing Director.
King shers Corporate Centre is responsible for facilitating the sharing of best practice and the development of minimum Group standards, which in some cases will be stricter than local regulatory requirements.
Progress this year has been validated by an independent third party.
