Logica Annual report and accounts 2009 Building a more sustainable future As we strive to be more open regarding There has been a c. 5% decrease in total At Logica we are both the issues and opportunities facing absolute total emissions from our restated committed to building Logica, we have published our first separate 2008 baseline level, equating to a decrease CR report that adheres to the Global of c. 6% when corrected for a larger number a sustainable business.
Reporting Initiative GRI guidelines, the of staff.
Our air travel reduced by 13%.
Living and operating global standard for CR reporting and have These reductions contribute towards our achieved a grade A.
It represents another longer-term target of a 50% reduction by in the global business positive step in our journey to work more 2020 based on 2008 levels.
ecosystem, we work to effectively with our key stakeholders to Throughout 2009 we have been maximise the sustainability of our operations.
successful in achieving external recognition improve the sustainability Our first GRI based CR report is a for our environmental credentials.
Logica of our own and our starting point for dialogue with clients, was ranked as number one in the FTSE 350 shareholders, employees and other interested IT Services industry by the Carbon clients operations.
parties to help Logica refine and adapt its Disclosure Project, which monitors the CR approach.
We have made good progress emissions and strategies of thousands of We seek to ensure we operate as an ethical in expanding the scope of our programme, companies around the world.
Logica was and socially responsible business.
And as but there is more to do as we work towards also ranked as one of the UKs top 20 Best our people are at the heart of our own and best practice.
We have set clear objectives Green Companies by the Sunday Times in our clients achievements, we want to and we are working hard to put the right the UK.
We also received recognition by the empower them to shape our clients and processes and governance in place to Wilson-Brown Group, which produces an their own future success.
ensure that our approach to CR is fully annual global ranking of technology The three key areas we aim to address integrated into how we operate at Logica.
companies, as Europes third Greenest through our Corporate Responsibility CR Outsourcer.
programme are: Respect for the environment We aim to continually improve the respect for the environment environmental sustainability of our making a positive difference to the operations and throughout 2009 we community sought to minimise our impact on making Logica a great place to work.
Throughout the year we have continued to In 2009, total Group carbon emissions develop sustainable propositions with and were 140,955 tonnes of carbon dioxide, for our clients such as carbon labelling and primarily generated from car and air travel, environmental measurement solutions.
office equipment, building heating, cooling, We will continue to refine and extend our and data centre equipment.
sustainable technology propositions, helping our clients transition to the low carbon economy.
To read more about our solutions for clients, go to: www.
com sustainability 73 Responsibility Corporate responsibility report We have established a framework for our We now operate Logica University across We are continually community programmes which enables all countries and have extended its learning looking to reduce countries throughout the Logica Group programmes across the Company, to take part in local or global volunteering, providing global learning opportunities to our impact on the fundraising or charity donations all employees.
environment and have appropriate to their culture and needs These include online English language of employees.
training, cross-cultural awareness identified the following workshops and business development objectives to support this: Making Logica a great place to work programmes for our key strategic accounts.
As a service business, we recognise We have also established a new e-learning Making a positive difference to our business success depends on the portal to provide easier access to the the community dedication and expertise of our people.
We recognise that our activities have a We want to attract the best people, global impact and by acting with social provide them with exciting career This is a summary of our full corporate responsibility we can help create a world opportunities and provide an environment responsibility report which is available at: in which our Company can flourish, now in which our people want to build their www.
com  and for generations to come.
projects that actively involve our people and, where possible, make use of their expertise.
Respect for the environment Key objective 2009 targets Results 2010 targets Ensure Group Reduce emissions and travel We reduced our emissions Our emission reduction capabilities in by 6% during 2009: by 5% absolute and 6% target for 2010 is 6% measuring emissions Environmental manager per capita : appointed for each Environment representatives country region: appointed for all regions: Improve country coverage 100% of countries of reporting to 100% contributed to emissions reporting Improve awareness of Build on awareness Introduced foundation Remote environment environmental issues programme through environment training for training across the Group among employees training, environmental all employees via Logica ambassadors and increased University: internal communications: First Group environment Increase awareness of our week to encourage programme to 65% employee participation: Awareness of Environment Programme grown to 65% Increase recycling 100% paper recycling 95% of our offices enable 90% of countries to have activities and availability across the paper recycling: waste reduction plan.
decrease paper Group: 63% of countries were able All major geographies consumption Establish baseline for to report weight of at least to make paper recycling measuring waste two types of recycled available in all offices.
35% of countries Others to produce plan of were able to report on moving towards this goal.
non-recycled waste Logica Supplier Corporate Responsibility Policy integrated in 50% of supplier contracts let in 2010.
