Internal Controls and Risk Management This section explains the Groups internal control environment, how we assess its effectiveness and how we identify, evaluate and manage risk.
There is also a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, the consequences if these are not managed and the mitigations currently relied upon by management.
Internal controls The Company complied throughout the year under review and continues to comply with the provisions of the Combined Code on internal controls and the relevant parts of the Turnbull and Smith guidance.
While the Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control, management is responsible for implementing agreed Board policies.
It is important to recognise that systems of internal control can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and cannot provide absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
Key features of the Companys internal control framework, which supports the financial reporting process, include: a schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision: detailed terms of reference for the Board Committees: a Code of Business Ethics and external whistle-blowing hotline: Human Resources policies which establish a consistent set of values and standards for managing employees and contractors throughout the group: a document summarising the delegation of authority cascade from the Board to the various levels of Group management: documented policies and procedures for certain key group-wide matters, including treasury, capital investment, risk management, human capital and procurement, supported by local policies and procedures as necessary: the Group strategy and Life of Business Plan, supported by the mineral resource database and model, and annual technical and financial budgets: systems including the SAP enterprise resource planning system, a bespoke metallurgical tracking system and a detailed mine planning system: management reporting against plans, budgets and forecasts: external audit and other assurance, including a biennial audit of mineral reserves and resources: and internal audit and other in-house review processes.
To ensure that the Audit and Risk Committee has full oversight of the work of the internal audit function, the Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, with a joint reporting line to the VP, Treasury and Risk.
The Audit and Risk Committee meets regularly with both the internal and external auditors to discuss internal control and other matters arising from the assurance process.
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and systems for the identification and management of risk.
This task is carried out on behalf of the Board by the Audit and Risk Committee, which has undertaken a review of the internal control environment following the year end.
To do so, the Committee assessed the following: responses provided by circa eighty senior managers in management confirmation letters completed at the end of the financial year, designed to provide assurance on the effectiveness of internal controls and compliance with Group policies and procedures: a number of external parties providing assurance on different parts of the business and its control environment: progress made by management in identifying and mitigating the key risks facing the Group: routine management reporting on business performance and results: and reports provided to the Audit and Risk Committee by both internal and external auditors and other specialist advisors in relation to the Groups risk and control environments.
Action has been, or is being, taken where necessary to address as far as practicable any significant failings and weaknesses identified in the reviews of effectiveness of internal controls whether they are financial, operational or compliance.
26 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Risk management There is an ongoing process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the Group that has been in place throughout the year under review and to the date of approval of the accounts.
This process has been reviewed regularly by the Audit and Risk Committee on behalf of the Board, and accords with the guidance appended to the Combined Code.
The approach taken is systematic and combines both a top-down and a bottom-up review and approval process.
All senior managers are responsible for managing and monitoring risks that could impede the achievement of business objectives and these are recorded in a risk register.
It is mandatory for this process to take place at least once a year, but in practice a more frequent review takes place in most business areas.
For each risk identified, management also assesses the root causes, consequences and mitigating controls in relation to the risk.
An assessment is then made of the maximum risk exposure and the effectiveness of the controls in place to mitigate that risk.
A numerical scoring matrix is used to derive a risk score and priority after taking account of mitigating controls.
Where the risk score and priority remain high after mitigating controls are taken into account, action plans are devised to reduce these risks further and progress against these plans is regularly reviewed.
Each of the business areas is supported by an Operational Risk Champion who co-ordinates all risk management activity in that business area and ensures that actions are implemented appropriately.
Progress against action plans is also reviewed regularly by the Audit and Risk Committee and reported to the Board.
Lonmin Plc Board Executive Committee Audit and Risk Committee Integrated strategic, business and operational risk management Identification & Evaluation Mitigation Reporting KPIs Operating Units Capital Projects Support Functions Lonmin groups risks into strategic, financial, external and operational risks.
The key risks faced by Lonmin, based on our current understanding, along with their potential impact and the mitigation strategies developed are detailed on the following pages.
There is no implied ranking in the order of disclosure.
The Companys strategy takes into account these known risks, but risks will exist of which we are currently unaware and the severity or probability of the occurrence of known risks may change from time to time.
com 27 Internal Controls and Risk Management continued Strategic Risk Impact Ineffective or poorly executed strategy fails to create shareholder value or fails to meet shareholder expectations.
Risk Impact Mitigation Corporate & Social Non-delivery of our Social and Labour Social and community programmes are monitored by the Responsibility plan could result in the withdrawal of Executive Committee and the Safety and Sustainability our Mining Licence.
Clear KPIs set and measured on a regular basis.
Ongoing dialogue with the relevant authorities.
Failure to comply with Results in a deteriorating relationship Full engagement with the DMR in South Africa and further Black Economic with the Department of Mineral Resources engagement with all other stakeholders to ensure compliance.
Empowerment BEE DMR in South Africa.
codes in relation to mining e. g. failure to achieve BEE equity participation of 26% by 2014 Investment and business Shareholder value not optimised.
Review of strategy and financial returns at Board level on an decisions fail to deliver annual basis.
Consistent investment appraisal process applied shareholder value to new capital spend.
Opportunities have been taken to restructure the business by stopping production of unprofitable ounces to maximise shareholder value.
A comprehensive defence strategy is in place.
Access to a secure Could impact on the ability to run Measurement of water usage and water saving initiatives supply of water current operations and deliver future implemented.
Plans aligned with long term strategy of the expansion plans.
Company and additional water suppliers for key areas to be secured accordingly.
Access to a secure Could impact on the ability to run Measurement of energy usage and energy saving initiatives supply of electricity current operations and deliver future implemented.
Load shed and contractual agreements in place expansion plans.
with Eskom SA energy supplier.
Continuity planning in place and additional supply for key areas to be secured accordingly.
see Sustainable Development Review for more detailed disclosure Financial Risk Impact Asset performance and or excessive leverage results in the Group not being able to meet its financial obligations.
Risk Impact Mitigation Foreign exchange risk Significant fluctuations in exchange Current policy is not to hedge this currency pair.
There is a long specifically rates to which the Group is exposed term correlation between US Dollar SA Rand and PGM basket US Dollar SA Rand could have a material adverse effect on price, although this can dislocate over the shorter term.
the Groups future financial condition.
Commodity price risk Significant fluctuations in commodity Current policy is not to hedge PGM basket prices.
There is a prices to which the Group is exposed long term correlation between US Dollar SA Rand and PGM could have a material adverse effect on basket price, although this can dislocate over the shorter term.
Hedging of base metals is undertaken under the remit of the Price and Risk Committee.
Uncompetitive gross Could have a material adverse effect on High cost per ounce assets put on care and maintenance.
Cost and or unit costs the Groups competitive position and base tailored to fit the current environment through the recent future financial condition.
Clear understanding of our competitive position and required productivity improvement plans in place.
Access to cost The Group may not be able to obtain Tenure of debt extended.
Rights Issue completed this year to effective funding cost effective funding when required which strengthen the balance sheet, key covenants in banking lines could impact on the ability of the Group to constantly monitored through rolling cash flow forecasts with meet its liabilities as they fall due.
appropriate covenant waivers in place for FY10.
Regular contact with our banking group.
see Financial Review for more detailed disclosure 28 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc External Risk Impact The political, industry or market environment may negatively impact on the Groups ability to independently manage and grow its business.
Risk Impact Mitigation Changing political The occurrence of such a change could Ongoing dialogue with the relevant government at all levels and landscape in any of the have a material adverse effect on the other key stakeholders.
Effective communications programmes countries in which we Groups future operational performance with key stakeholders.
Other PGM mining companies would operate negatively and financial condition.
impacts the business PGM supply & Significant changes to either both the supply Gathering market information from customers and other demand volatility and demand side in the PGM industry sources.
Monitoring market segments and trends in the e. g. production substitution or supply side industry.
Continue to support initiatives to develop existing constraints could have a material adverse and new markets for PGMs.
Longer term volume contracts effect on the Groups future operational with key customers.
Operational Risk Impact Operational event impacting staff, contractors, communities or the environment leading to loss of revenue and or reputation or increased costs.
Risk Impact Mitigation Inadequate and or poor Significant changes to our assessment of Bore hole sampling and seismic surveys conducted under the quality ore reserves the quality and extent of our ore reserves supervision of specialist geologists coupled with independent could have a material adverse effect on audits of reserves.
Quality in-house technical team with multiple the Groups future operational performance internal review processes.
Lack of long term ore Shareholder value not optimised over the Independent peer review of Long Term Plan before submission reserve depletion planning long term.
Lack of short term ore Could severely disrupt operations and have Technical Services functions acting independently of mine reserve development a material adverse effect on the Groups management located at mine shafts scrutinising flexibility and planning financial condition.
Performance measured and reported to the Board.
Recoveries throughout Could have a material adverse effect on Grade targets set and measured by assay and sampling in Mining.
operations not maximised the Groups financial condition.
In Processing, plant maintenance programmes ensure plant stability to assist recoveries.
Technical Services functions acting independently of operational management scrutinise management information.
Experienced management teams and clear benchmarks set.
Inadequate backup Could severely disrupt operations and have Pyromets provide an element of back-up capacity.
Spare smelting capacity a material adverse effect on the Groups capacity in No.
1 furnace currently gives ability to catch up.
1 furnace includes improved monitoring and fault detection technology.
Study initiated into how this risk could be further mitigated.
Major fault on key Could severely disrupt operations and have Plant maintenance programmes coupled with an on-site stock piece of equipment a material adverse effect on the Groups of critical spares.
Contamination and or Could lead to health concerns in local Emissions monitored by regular sampling.
Scrubber systems emissions impacting on communities, withdrawal of relevant in place.
Long term disposal strategy for calcium sulphite the surrounding licences and potential litigation.
Re-lining of tailings dams to prevent groundwater environment and pollution.
communities Fraud and or theft Could have a material adverse effect on Fraud awareness training and security reviews supported by a of product the Groups financial condition.
code of ethics and whistle blowing programme.
Security and Investigations department operations in key areas on the business.
Failure of safety routines Could put lives at risk, severely disrupt Safety & Sustainability Committee oversees all safety matters.
and or safety strategy operations and have a material adverse Safety standards set and monitored regularly throughout the effect on the Groups financial condition.
Clearly defined safety protocols including Safe Behaviour Observations.
Plant maintenance programmes supported by critical spares inventory.
Regular independent safety audits and inspections by the DMR.
Deteriorating industrial Could severely disrupt operations and Full engagement strategy with the unions and employees relations and or union have a material adverse effect on the supported by our other external relationships.
Failure of internal Could severely disrupt operations and Clear organisational structure with appropriate segregation of controls have a material adverse effect on the duties.
Independent internal and external audits with follow up Groups financial condition.
