In addition, it invests continuously in its IS infrastructure to support its effectiveness and resilience and has enhanced its Principal risks disaster recovery facilities in the last year.
Appropriate measures are in place to ensure separation of duties and restricted access and uncertainties to critical production systems to minimise against the risk of sabotage by human intervention.
During the past financial year the IS function has been further consolidated into a single European team and investment has commenced in a new, more resilient network with a real time disaster recovery capability.
Acquisition integration The scale of the recent and possible future acquisition activities As with most businesses, a range of risks and uncertainties face gives rise to risk for the Group in a number of ways including the potential for lost focus on the core business and the potential the Group and the matters described below are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all possible risks and uncertainties.
for adverse impact on customer service levels during factory integration together with the potential risk of skills shortages The Group is subject to risk factors both internal and external to its as existing people become increasingly stretched.
External risks include political and economic conditions, market and competitive developments, supply interruption, To mitigate this risk integration teams are established under the leadership of experienced managers to review the issues in depth regulatory changes, foreign exchange, raw material, packaging and energy prices, pensions funding, environmental risks and litigation.
and develop detailed project plans.
Additional resources are hired to backfill gaps in the existing business: generally, these are interim Internal risks include risks related to systems reliance, acquisitions, legislative and regulatory compliance, capital expenditure, resources to allow cost to be incurred for the minimum period of time.
production capability, human resources, strikes and failure of internal controls.
As acquisition activity increases the risk arises of items materialising The Group has a well established set of risk management which could not be identified or quantified during due diligence activities.
To mitigate this risk, where due diligence cannot provide procedures at three different levels i. e. operating company, division and Group.
These are discussed further in the Corporate the necessary degree of assurance, specific representations and warranties are sought from the vendor.
Where uncertainty exists, governance report on pages 29 to 34. earn-outs can provide a final degree of protection.
The focus below is on those specific risks and uncertainties that the directors believe could have the most significant impact on the People risks The main people risks are the loss of key managers, insufficient Groups business.
These are based on the most recent Group risk review by the Board in 2009. planning for management and Board succession, as well as the risk of industrial relations breakdown or strike: all of these could Sustainability of revenue and profits adversely impact on the Groups reputation as well as leading to employee morale problems.
McBride is exposed to price and supply fluctuations for its raw materials, packaging and other consumables used in its production Well established procedures are in place covering consultation, processes.
The past year has seen high volatility in raw material prices, driven particularly by the increase and subsequent decline employee involvement, works councils, documented grievance and dispute resolution procedures and focus on engendering a in the oil price.
Employee morale is measured annually through the Employee Opinion Survey and mitigating actions taken To mitigate this impact, the Group has a strong focus on improving operating efficiencies through increased asset utilisation and when required.
The latest survey results show an improvement in Employee morale.
In addition, the Group has a well-established automation, reduced waste and minimising the use of packaging.
It also maintains a programme of initiatives, supported by a combination process for talent management and succession planning for senior employees.
Succession planning for executive management is of the purchasing, technical and operational teams, such as the use of alternative materials and sources and product reformulations.
The actively considered by the Nomination Committee and the Board.
Where employees have access to sensitive data, appropriate Group has a sourcing office in Hong Kong and has commenced sourcing certain products from the Far East.
In addition, the Group measures are in place to prevent its disclosure should an employee leave the Group.
continues its strong focus on delivering superior customer service levels, deepening relationships with its existing customers and Operational disruption seeking out new channels of supply, developing its understanding of the retail market and its customers expectations across all territories Given the short lead times and demanding service levels required by customers, disruption to McBrides manufacturing or distribution of its operation, developing and offering New Product Development, innovation and range and category diversification and focusing on facilities for example, by fire, health and safety failure, problems of supply, information systems failure, workforce action or driving continuous efficiency improvements across the business.
Where necessary the Group is committed to securing price increases environmental incident could adversely affect the Groups performance.
Whilst the Group maintains insurance based on to cover residual cost inflation.
levels that it believes are appropriate for its industry, some of these operational risks could result in losses and liabilities in excess Systems dependency and reliability A failure of the Groups SAP information systems IS platform of its insurance coverage or in uninsured losses and liabilities.
would rapidly impact all sites after a few hours, which in turn would damage business and customer relationships.
Damage could be This risk is managed through well-established processes including standard operating procedures, asset maintenance, regulatory caused by accident, by software or hardware failure, or by sabotage.
compliance, dedicated steering groups, monitoring, auditing, consultation, multiple sourcing and disaster recovery plans for To mitigate this risk the Group has a resilient network design and maintains duplicated facilities, as well as off-site back-up and manufacturing and distribution facilities.
disaster recovery plans which provide full back-up services within McBride plc Directors report 21 Annual report and accounts 2009 Principal risks and uncertainties The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents The Group has comprehensive management processes in place Principal risks to ensure that its products are both suitable and safe for their intended use.
Additionally, regulatory compliance and product safety and uncertainties issues are actively addressed through membership of relevant industry associations.
The Group has established product development and continued quality management processes to minimise the risk of such failures arising, including a dedicated quality assurance function.
Product quality controls include the use of in-house toxicologists supported by independent third party specialists.
In addition, detailed product recall and crisis management procedures are in place and are regularly reviewed.
As part of McBrides commitment to continuously improve the safety and environmental sustainability Each year we work with our insurers to visit all sites and prepare risk of its products and processes, it has a number of programmes, above and beyond regulatory requirements, to systematically recommendations for each site.
These are followed through during the following 12 months and this programme has resulted in lower remove specific ingredients from product formulae and packaging specifications.
levels of property insurance premium once again.
All our UK factories have sprinkler protection and we are extending this investment Liquidity and capital resources across Europe.
In the current global financial crisis and uncertain economic environment, certain external risks may increase.
If there is an Supplier failure The Group depends on close trading relationships with a number extended period of constraint in the liquidity of the debt markets this may impact our ability to maintain our long-term investment of key suppliers across Europe.
We have established a procedure for identifying the possible risks for each key material, ensured programme and may therefore impact shareholder returns.
Our current banking facilities expire in 2011 and will need to be rewe have pre-qualified alternative suppliers wherever possible and where this is not possible we retain higher levels of safety negotiated in 2010.
It is unlikely we will continue to enjoy the current agreed rates.
We also review suppliers own contingency plans and strive for reformulations of products where appropriate.
Decreases in the funded levels of our UK defined benefit pension Environmental risks plan may also increase our pension funding requirements, although the proportion of employees on defined benefit schemes is only 6%.
The amount of environmental legislation has grown tremendously in recent times.
In addition, environmental issues are increasingly The Group has established a financial framework to ensure that driving consumer and retailer behaviour.
These emerging trends may give rise to the Group having to evolve its operations more it is able to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity and financial capacity and to constrain the level of assessed capital at risk for quickly than might otherwise have been the case, presenting risks as well as potential opportunities.
the purposes of positions taken in financial instruments.
Failure to operate within our financial framework could lead to the Group The Group is also exposed to risks of liabilities inherent in the becoming financially distressed leading to a loss of shareholder value.
Commercial credit risk is measured and controlled to context of the long established nature of its operations, including the cost of required remedial action.
These also include the determine the Groups total credit risk.
Inability to determine adequately our credit exposure could lead to financial loss.
A potential cost of complying with additional future regulation including changes in production practices and the risk of being credit crisis affecting banks and other sectors of the economy could impact the ability of counterparties to meet their financial subject to claims for personal injury as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous materials or other environmental conditions.
It could also affect our ability to raise capital to fund growth.
The Group is committed to minimising the environmental impact of Foreign currency risk its operations.
To support its performance in these areas, the Group maintains appropriate robust performance management systems The Group operates in many European countries but reports its results in Sterling and it is therefore exposed to the impact of and key performance indicators.
It also has strong focus on achieving exacting external accreditation for its operations.
Environmental fluctuations in prevailing exchange rates on items denominated in other currencies, primarily the Euro.
The recent strengthening audits have been undertaken of all key locations.
Any issues have been identified and appropriate actions are taken in accordance of the Euro has impacted the Groups results in a number of ways.
In particular, reported consolidated net debt has increased due with local legislative and regulatory guidelines.
These include consideration of any potential impact on both employees as well not just to the effect of the strengthening of the Euro on Eurodenominated debt but also to payments resulting from this strength as neighbouring properties and any potential public health issues.
under hedges to protect the sterling value of the net assets of non-UK subsidiaries.
Conversely, we have benefited from the impact The Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 26 to 28 and the separate Sustainability Report published on the Groups website of a stronger Euro on the Groups revenues and operating profits which arise in the Euro area.
Significant foreign currency exposures at www.
co. uk provide more information on the Groups approach to Environmental, Social and Governance ESG matters.
are regularly reviewed by our Group Treasury Committee, and subject to hedging in accordance with approved treasury policies.
Product safety and quality Nevertheless, the Group could be impacted in future by significant exchange rate fluctuations.
The Household and Personal Care products sectors have various product and ingredient issues relating to concerns voiced over the long-term effects of household chemicals on human health and the environment.
Failures in product quality controls, the risk of despatch of unsafe product or contravention of labelling regulations and other legislative requirements could lead to damage to the reputation of, and trust in, McBride and adversely affect the Groups business.
McBride plc Directors report 22 Annual report and accounts 2009 Principal risks and uncertainties
