qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 6 Business review History and development of the Company Our Group On 14 February 2005, the shareholders of mmO2 approved the proposals for a capital reorganisation We are a leading provider of mobile communications services in Europe, with wholly owned businesses in to create distributable reserves through a Court-approved Scheme of Arrangement the Scheme.
The the United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man.
reorganisation was required in order that the Company could implement a sustainable dividend policy and make distributions to shareholders.
Following shareholder approval, mmO2 was acquired by a new company, We have almost 24 million customers and approximately 15,000 employees.
We reported revenues for the O2, which effected a reduction of its share capital to create distributable reserves.
The Scheme became year ended 31 March 2005 of 6,683 million.
Data represented 23.3 per cent of gross service revenues for effective on 14 March 2005, on which date dealings in O2 shares commenced on the London Stock Exchange.
the financial year ended 31 March 2005.
Under the Scheme, mmO2 shareholders exchanged their existing shares in mmO2 for new shares in O2 on The businesses in the UK and Ireland are both established and profitable, with a track record of revenue and a one-for-one basis.
mmO2 shareholders also had the option of electing to receive, in exchange for customer growth and a strong presence in high-value markets, such as business and mobile data services.
their existing shares in mmO2, either new shares in O2 or cash consideration under a cash alternative.
In the UK, our Tesco Mobile joint venture performed well, reporting that its active customer base reached Shareholders who took no action were deemed to have elected for the cash alternative.
This cash 500,000 shortly after Christmas.
In Ireland, the growth in customer numbers led to another year of strong consideration consisted of the amount received through a placing in the market of the new shares on behalf financial performance.
of the shareholders electing for the cash alternative.
The value of the cash alternative was 1.30 including the premium of 5 pence per share.
The cash alternative and therefore the size of the placing was limited O2 Germany remains the fastest growing operator in Germany.
It experienced strong service revenue growth to 300,000,000 O2 shares.
for the full financial year ended 31 March 2005, driven by the continuing rapid growth in the customer base.
Performance in Germany has exceeded expectations thanks largely to our unique Genion service.
The Board has also reviewed the US listing and the associated ADR programme which is a legacy of the demerger from BT.
As part of the reorganisation, mmO2s ADRs were delisted from the New York Stock We announced on 1 April 2005 that O2 Airwave had completed the nationwide network on time and on Exchange on 11 March 2005 and O2 has not established an ADR programme nor a US listing for the budget to provide every police force in England, Scotland and Wales with state of the art, secure digital new shares in O2.
The Board is currently pursuing deregistration of O2 shares from the Securities and communications.
The completion of the five-year programme that has rolled out the largest public safety Exchange Commission.
mobile communications network of its kind in Europe is a milestone in the efforts being made to cut bureaucracy and improve safety for the police and the general public.
Over 100,000 police ofcers are During the second half of the financial year ended 31 March 2004, mmO2 transferred O2 Online, Products now using Airwave.
O2 and certain other central functions to the operating businesses, to simplify lines of management, reduce costs, and improve speed of execution.
This restructuring, which reduced headcount by 200, led to an Manx Telecom is unique within the Group, providing mobile, xed line and internet services in the Isle of exceptional operating charge of 75 million being incurred in the second half of the year ended 31 March Man.
It was also the pioneer of UMTS networks, the platform on which we, in measured stages, will supply 2004.
As a consequence of this streamlining, as from 1 April 2004, O2 Online and Products O2 are no services Europe-wide.
We chose Manx Telecom to run Europes first superfast 3G trial, in partnership with longer being operated as separate businesses.
Lucent Technologies, using HSDPA technology.
HSDPA offers the possibility of communication speeds up to three times faster than current commercial UMTS services.
On 20 February 2004, we announced that our Board of Directors had received and considered a proposal by Royal K. P. N. N. V. the Dutch telecommunications group.
The Board carefully considered the proposal but As we reported last year, we became a founding member of Starmap Mobile Alliance in October 2003, a rejected it as not being in the best interests of our shareholders.
group of independent mobile phone operators who are joining forces in readiness for the international rollout of UMTS services.
Starmap aims to provide a home-away-from-home experience by introducing On 14 April 2003, we announced that we had agreed the sale of O2 Netherlands to Greeneld Capital seamless roaming and multimedia connectivity to more than 46 million customers in ten European countries.
Partners, an independent private equity and finance group with interests in the telecoms sector, for In addition, we have established the Tesco Mobile and Tchibo Mobilfunk joint venture businesses in the UK 25 million in cash, which was paid on completion of the transaction on 3 June 2003. and Germany respectively.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 7 Our technology innovative O Active portal, which has been re-designed to take advantage of richer, faster, more capable 2 Our success in Germany has encouraged us to accelerate the growth of the business by means of increased UMTS-based features.
network investment to deliver a high-quality customer experience from our own UMTS platform.
At the same time we have launched our consumer UMTS service in the UK, a move that will be signicantly To mark the introduction of our UMTS service for consumers, we launched the only own-branded UMTS enhanced in the second half of 2005 by our strategic agreement with NTT DoCoMo to provide its mobile handset in the UK market to date the competitively priced O X4.
2 internet service in our key markets.
Based on the highly successful design principles of our existing X-range of handsets, which includes the We signed a long-term strategic agreement with NTT DoCoMo, Japans largest mobile communications popular O Xda II, the O X4 sports a sleek clamshell design with a high-quality 262,000-colour main screen 2 2 provider under which we will launch a mobile internet service using i-mode capability in the UK, Germany display.
The O X4 is equipped with a 1.3 megapixel camera with an 8x zoom lens and advanced ash 2 and Ireland.
This partnership will complement our existing expertise in data services with NTT DoCoMos mechanic: it also includes an MP3 music player, video downloading and streaming capabilities, 10Mb of experience in non-SMS data and its extensive research and development capabilities.
Customers will benefit phone memory and 64Mb of additional capacity via a removable memory card.
from easy-to-use services, rich content applications and messaging across a range of advanced handsets.
In addition to the O X4, we will offer UMTS customers a range of handsets from leading manufacturers, 2 Under the terms of the agreement, we are licensed by NTT DoCoMo to offer the i-mode capability to our including the Nokia 6630, Samsung Z107, Motorola V975 and the Sony Erickson V800.
This will be expanded 24 million customers.
Already the worlds most popular mobile internet platform with more than going forward through existing handset procurement channels and the NTT DoCoMo partnership.
48 million subscribers using over 6,100 ofcial content sites in ten countries and regions, we will make the i-mode capability available on an extensive selection of advanced multimedia handsets and devices from In Germany we recently launched an innovative, high-speed offering, O surf@home, a service that directly 2 major Asian, European and US manufacturers.
These currently include NEC, Panasonic, Siemens, Motorola complements O Genion.
Using this innovative UMTS data service, O2 customers are able to connect to 2 and Samsung, amongst others.
the internet from their homes at xed line rates.
The combination of O Genion with O surf@home will 2 2 enable complete xed line substitution and increase customer value and loyalty.
O2 UK and O2 Ireland will have exclusive use of the i-mode brand and technology in their respective markets.
O2 Germany will launch a service based on i-mode technology under its own brand.
Our strategy Our primary goal is to create shareholder value by becoming the fastest growing major European mobile The appeal of these services will be signicantly enhanced as we roll out HSDPA with speeds of up to operator in revenue and profitability.
We have a number of specic growth opportunities including further 1Mbps compared with UMTS with speeds of 384kbps to all our customers, offering a true mobile investment in our networks in Germany, improving the customer experience in the UK and Ireland, O2 broadband experience.
Airwave moving into full operations, and maximising the potential of key partnerships such as Tesco Mobile and Tchibo Mobilfunk.
Our products and services On 27 January 2005, we announced that we would introduce a range of attractive new handsets and an We will continue to build on the momentum created by our successful brand, ensuring that, whenever enhanced O Active portal over our UMTS network.
The move builds on our leadership in non-voice services customers come into contact with us, the expectations created by the brand are met.
In this way, 2 and unique O branded handsets.
In the UK, UMTS services have been available for our business users since we aim to become an integral part of customers lives and improve our ability to attract and retain 2 October 2004 and our consumers since 1 February 2005, and in Germany to our business users since April higher-value customers.
2004 and all consumers shortly thereafter.
We plan to deploy significant additional resources into the customer-facing areas of our UK operations Consumers who purchase UMTS devices from us will enjoy a wider range of new and original content, including the creation of 2,000 new retail and customer service staff over the next two years, opening a including: lm from Warner Bros Online previews, behind the scenes and interviews : lifestyle from titles fourth major UK customer service centre and further expanding our retail network.
By delivering a better such as GQ, FHM and Glamour: the latest music videos and tracks from major recording artists and MTV: customer experience, we aim to improve customer loyalty and develop a sustainable basis for enhanced news from ITN: and sports, including England Rugby and Arsenal Football.
They will also benefit from faster long-term returns.
The cost of this expansion has been offset by efficiencies in non customer-facing download speeds and video calling.
The launch also marks the arrival of a new and improved version of the activities, resulting in a reduction of some 500 positions and an exceptional operating charge of 45 million recognised in the financial year ended 31 March 2005. o2.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 8 Business review continued The following table represents the turnover for each of our continuing operating businesses for the three drive this success.
A revamped, more intuitive homepage, including a scrolling ticker of news headlines, financial years ended 31 March: received positive customer feedback and drove higher usage.
As at 31 March 2005, O Active was available 2 Year ended 31 March on 100 different handsets.
2005 2004 2003 m m m A number of innovative O sourced and branded devices helped us build increased brand differentiation and 2 Continuing operations drive service usage.
We extended our O Xda signature range of wireless personal digital assistants with the 2 O2 UK 4,030 3,451 3,025 launch of the O Xda II, the O Xda IIs and the O Xda IIi.
Features include web browsing, e-mail, LAN WAN 2 2 2 O2 Germany 1,865 1,508 1,060 access, camera and video functionality, and a range of ofce applications.
The O Xda IIs integrated digital 2 O2 Ireland 585 529 442 music player also allows customers to download and play music tracks making it appealing to high-spending O2 Airwave 169 89 16 consumers who are amongst the most intensive mobile users.
We also added three new phones to our X Manx Telecom 53 50 48 range of O branded handsets, the O X2, the O X3 and the O X4, our first own branded UMTS phone.
All 2 2 2 2 O2 Online 140 93 are unique to O2 and have a wide range of multimedia functions.
Intragroup eliminations 19 121 73 Total 6,683 5,646 4,611 As part of our on-going investment in service capability, we rolled out the first phase of our UMTS network in the UK, launching initial services to business customers in October 2004 and consumers in February 2005.
The launch of our UMTS service is an evolution of our successful services strategy.
Because UMTS technology Operations by country offers faster data speeds, it allows customers with UMTS-enabled devices to enjoy richer information and O2 UK entertainment content, and new interactive services.
For example, O Active can now be accessed at faster 2 Operational performance speeds, provides 3D interactive and multiplayer games, and has greater video capability and content such as O2 UK delivered a strong operating and financial performance during the financial year ended 31 March film and music videos.
As it is a new technology, we believe UMTS services will initially appeal to early adopters, 2005.
Customer numbers, service revenue, ARPU and EBITDA all showed continued growth.
Success was building towards mass-market adoption in the latter part of the financial year ending 31 March 2006. driven by innovative new services and customer propositions, a series of successful marketing campaigns and further improvements in network quality.
All of these aided the continued development of the iconic In the mass consumer market, we continued to develop innovative propositions and promotions that proved O brand.
For example, we introduced O Friends for pre-pay customers half-price calls 2 and messages to three chosen numbers and Happy Hour offering free messaging between 7 p. m. and Total customer numbers grew by 1.1 million to 14.4 million helping to drive a 14 per cent growth in net 8p.
m. for both pre-pay and post-pay customers.
The quality of our customer base also continued to improve.
This was evidenced by post-pay ARPU for the financial year ended 31 March 2005 rising 17 compared with the In the business market, we grew our direct sales force and introduced new pricing and service propositions.
previous year to 542, while pre-pay ARPU rose 2 on the previous year to 143.
On a blended basis, ARPU These included the O Welcome service for larger corporate customers, designed to make switching from was 281 at year end, an increase of 9.
Rising ARPU occurred despite the impact of the regulatory price 2 other networks trouble-free by giving dedicated support, advice and information at the customers premises.
cut in September reduced our rolling ARPU by 11 by the end of the year see Regulation In The United O Network Manager, another innovation for corporate customers, was also launched.
Network Manager Kingdom on page 16.
EBITDA, one of our key indicators of profitability, reached 1,183 million, 2 measures the service level given to corporate customers to an agreed standard to enable us to improve their a 14 per cent year on year increase.
The O for Business marketing campaign promoted the quality of O2s network.
2 We retained our focus on mobile data non-voice services.
The volume of text messages carried These initiatives helped us acquire many new corporate customers such as DHL as well as growing business on our network hit 1 billion texts per month by the end of the financial year ended 31 March 2005. with customers such as Superdrug and West Yorkshire Police.
This continued focus on text and other messaging services such as e-mail and picture messages, as well as non-voice services like music, content downloads and information services helped data services revenue In the market for small and medium sized businesses SME, we launched O Business Zones which offered reach 24.2 per cent of O2 UK service revenue, an increase of 3.8 per cent over last year.
2 40 per cent off calls to two chosen area codes.
This was introduced in response to customer feedback that many small businesses make most of their calls within their local area.
We also introduced a new set of Further development of O Active, the simple-to-use portal for news, information and downloads, helped 2 o2.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 9 tariffs providing shared minutes and shared bundles for example, data minutes for small businesses Market dynamics to use across all mobile phones on their account.
Demand from businesses of all sizes for the BlackBerry Our performance was achieved against the backdrop of stiff and increasing competition.
Traditional mobile e-mail service increased.
competitors including Vodafone, Orange and T-Mobile continue to grow.
3, the newest network operator with a purely UMTS network, has built strong momentum.
3 has been growing through a mixture of In October 2004, O2 UK launched O Connection Manager.
The service provides business customers on the aggressive tariffs and high handset subsidies and we expect them to continue this strategy.
Tesco Mobile, 2 move with a simple way to connect their laptop computer to the O2 data network using whichever our 50 50 joint venture with Tesco, has delivered sustained growth.
In December 2004, 14 months after its of our UMTS, GPRS or WLAN network best suits.
WLAN is a relatively new technology, appealing to early launch, Tesco Mobile had attracted over half a million customers.
The joint venture addresses sections adopters from which we expect to see growth over time.
Following agreements signed with WLAN of the family market that we do not currently target with the O brand through Tescos network of 2 operators, O2 now provides WLAN access in over 6,700 UK locations including hotels, airports, coffee supermarkets and Metro stores.
We expect competition to intensify again this year with several new shops, bars and pubs.
MVNOs entering the market, which coincides with slowing overall growth in new customers.
The percentage of total sales delivered through O2s own channels O2 stores, O2 Online store and O2s Corporate responsibility direct sales force continued to increase and we expect the proportion of sales through our own channels to We believe that companies who respond to the needs of the communities in which they work are more continue to rise during the financial year ending 31 March 2006.
We believe this will enable us to deliver a likely to deliver good business results.
We look in particular to support initiatives where mobile services can better customer relationship.
The number of O2 retail stores grew by 26 to reach 257 by the year end.
be used to tackle social needs, where our employees can become involved, and where we can raise the prole of O2 as well.
A key element of our strategy is to differentiate O2 by delivering a better overall customer experience through, amongst other things, higher service quality.
Improvements in overall service quality last year In July 2004, O2 UK launched its new charity partnership with Weston Spirit, the charity co-founded focused on two main areas improvements in our network performance and enhancements to our by Simon Weston OBE to help young people at risk of social exclusion reach their full potential.
Over the customer service capabilities.
next two years, our new partnership aims to deliver a ground-breaking mentoring programme to support personal development of young people.
We have already recruited more than 70 O2 UK mentors who have Our main indicator of network performance and quality is minutes per drop MPD the number of minutes been trained to provide advice, support and encouragement to young people assigned to them through a between dropped voice calls.
This improved through the year and is now at its highest ever level.
series of local school partners.
Elsewhere, we are supporting HM Prison Services Prison Me No Way campaign.
O2 UK employees have joined forces with the emergency services to provide crime and safety In the area of customer service, we continued to make significant investment in our single billing and awareness workshops to schools throughout the UK.
Following the successful Teach UR Mum 2 Text customer relationship management system across all O2 UK operations.
Work already completed on campaign during the financial year ended 31 March 2004, O2 UK last year supported Millys Funds the project has, for example, enabled on-line customers to view their bills online.
Also a new web-based tool Summer Textin Tips campaign which provides personal safety advice to young people while they are in retail stores allows new customers mobile phones to be set up and activated on the spot.
We are also funding the development of medical devices using mobile technology to monitor implemented these during the year, we encountered a number of challenges around service and billing asthma and cystic brosis patients remotely.
Trials with asthma patients have already proved a success with communications.
We have now tackled these and put increased focus on managing service and billing quality.
many more patients monitoring their breathing on a regular basis compared with conventional methods.
The strong appeal and distinctiveness of the O brand also continued to help us differentiate from our We are aware that mobile phone masts are not always popular and we work hard to address peoples 2 competitors.
Brand awareness continued to climb last year and brand consideration is at an all time high.
Opposition to masts, does, however, have to be balanced with the strong demand from over This has been assisted by O2 UKs sponsorships of the World Cup winning England rugby team, the 2004 50 million UK users of mobile services and extensive research showing no known health risks.
Football Association Premiership champions Arsenal, and Capital Radios drive-time and a host of music events, as well as the strong appeal of our market propositions.
Recognising the contribution made by the We have consistently taken a proactive approach to the issue of child safety and mobile phones.
As the first O brand to its business performance, O2 UK won the Institute of Practitioners in Advertisings IPA mobile operator in the UK to join the Internet Watch Foundation, and a signatory to the industrys Code 2 prestigious Grand Prix award for 2004.
This award recognises companies that have marketed their brand of Practice for the self-regulation of new forms of content, O2 UK has introduced controls to allow parents most effectively with the best return on investment.
We also won the Mobile Data Associations Best to manage their childrens access to inappropriate content or experiences.
In addition, we have sought to Network of the Decade award for being the most innovative in encouraging the uptake of mobile data provide customers with advice on the nature and use of mobile services and have also published a series of over the past ten years.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 10 Business review continued leaets giving advice to children on issues such as the sensible use of camera phones, safety in chatrooms, by 33 per cent.
Blended ARPU decreased by 3, for two reasons.
Firstly, ARPU especially postpaid and dealing with nuisance calls and bullying.
decreased in the final quarter of the financial year ended 31 March 2005 due to termination rate cuts in the German mobile market.
Secondly, O2 acquired a higher share of prepaid customers, which had an effect on Regulatory issues overall blended ARPU despite an increase in prepaid ARPU.
Service revenues at constant exchange rates In January 2005, Ofcom began consultations on the release of future mobile spectrum over the next five were 28 per cent higher at 1,687 million and EBITDA reached 341 million with a margin of 18.3 per cent.
Of particular importance will be the UMTS expansion band 2500MHz-2690MHz.
There is likely to In the light of this accelerating growth, over the next five years the business will step up the rate of investment be a protracted public debate on the timing and terms for future spectrum releases.
in its UMTS network to reduce national roaming costs, enhance customer experience and secure population coverage that is competitive with the market leaders.
Looking ahead We will continue our focus on improving profitability by growing our base of high-value customers and Our customers experience of the O brand is central to our growth strategy.
In addition to our increasing 2 improving business efficiency.
A key priority will be customer retention as more intense competition has focus on customer segmentation, and on identifying and meeting the needs of our various customers, we increased pressure on the rate of churn.
In order to deliver an enhanced customer experience and strengthen have directed a stronger focus towards direct sales channels.
O2 has increased the number of O2 shops to customer loyalty, we plan to redeploy significant additional resources into customer-facing areas including 119 and other points of sale to more than 9,000.
Our O2 Online shop has continued to show a strong the opening of a fourth major call centre in the UK, and further expanding the O2 retail network.
To support performance with a high rate of net new additions as well as low SACs, and good ARPU.
Our customers these initiatives, we plan to hire over 2,000 new retail and customer service staff over the next two years, also value a real face-to-face presence.
To enhance customer experience and further build brand image, the offsetting the cost of this expansion by targeting efficiencies across a wide range of managerial and first agship O2 store was opened in Munich in December 2004. administrative functions.
This is expected to result in a reduction of up to 500 permanent non-customer facing positions in the financial year ending 31 March 2006.
In October 2004, O2 Germany launched the Tchibo Mobilfunk offer jointly with Tchibo, a well-established consumer brand known for its value-for-money offers, as branded reseller managed by a 50:50 joint Investment in our UMTS network will continue as we expand the network across the UK, initially focusing venture.
This additional and exclusive sales channel complements O2s target segments and has been very on the areas of greatest demand.
The range of UMTS capable phones in our handset portfolio will increase successful.
The product proposition was unique in Germany at launch: a Tchibo branded, transparent at as will the content offered through our O Active portal.
2 pre-paid tariff on very attractive terms.
Tchibo Mobilfunk has so far attracted in excess of 250,000 pre-pay customers.
In December 2004, Mobilcom was the first service provider in the German market to offer O2 We plan to launch a mobile internet service based on i-mode capability later this year in an exclusive pre-paid products at first on a dealer basis.
New O2 offers through service provider channels will become agreement with the Japanese operator NTT DoCoMo.
This will give us competitive differentiation by available in the current year.
providing our customers with access to the most comprehensive and exible internet service available on mobile phones, on a wide range of handsets from several vendors.
The i-mode capability is a mature Our unique O Genion product, which continues to be a key driver of gross additions, underpins our 2 service that has been proved to generate higher ARPUs in other countries than any other competing strategic focus on more profitable customers, generating higher ARPU and a considerably lower churn rate technology or platform.
Already the worlds most popular mobile internet platform, it has more than than other mobile products.
Customers attracted from other operators usually generate a higher ARPU 48 million subscribers using over 6,100 ofcial content sites in ten countries.
We believe this will be a because they change their patterns of usage with O Genion.
Thanks to its advanced technology, O Genion 2 2 compelling mobile internet service.
offers innovative services in combination with reduced tariffs in a geographical area chosen by the customer, usually near the home or workplace.
This is a unique service in the German and also European market.
O2 Germany Operational performance In our target business market, we have been winning major new customers with an expanded Business Unit O2 Germany has established itself as the most dynamic and innovative operator in the German market, team and forging new partnerships with sales channels and software suppliers.
We also extended our range which is the largest in Europe.
In the financial year ended 31 March 2005, both revenues and customer of tariff packages and services, both tailored to the specic needs of our business customers.
During the numbers grew at an accelerating pace throughout the year, outstripping both our expectations and the year, O2 Germany acquired a number of new high-prole customers, including MTU Aero Engines, Tchibo growth of other competitors, leading to further improvements in market share.
By attracting a significant and Christian Dior.
Partnerships with our long-standing customers, such as BMW, have been strengthened.
proportion of high-value customers and tightly controlling operating costs, O2 Germany has translated this For example, we have equipped the worlds most modern automobile manufacturing plant the BMW rapid growth in subscribers into a substantial improvement in profitability.
Overall customer numbers grew production site in Leipzig with our O Genion Campus solution.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 11 O2 Germany seeks to bring solutions to its customers rather than just transmission capacity.
To this end, Market dynamics we have stepped up our co-operation agreements with around 20 partner companies, including Siemens The German mobile phone market grew by 9 per cent last year and market penetration rose to 83 per cent SBS, UNISYS, Tobit Software, Sun Microsystems and Extended Systems, to offer our business customers in March 2005 compared with 76 per cent in March 2004.
About 7 million customers were acquired during mobile solutions in such areas as eld service control and mobile data security.
Customers can use our the financial year leading to about 73 million mobile connections.
There are currently four mobile network O Xda, the laptop card UMTS GPRS as well as BlackBerry, among other platforms.
operators in Germany T-Mobile, Vodafone, E-Plus and O2 Germany.
Competitiveness in the German 2 market has increased as a result of high penetration levels and increasing market saturation.
During the Internationally, our business customers benefit from products and services for mobile communication in year, high-speed UMTS services were introduced by all operators based on combined GPRS UMTS data more than 150 countries and the networks of over 300 roaming partners.
In our partner networks within cards and, since Christmas, UMTS handsets.
the Starmap Mobile Alliance, we are offering uniform and especially cost attractive conditions for mobile work and telephony.
Corporate responsibility O2 continued its engagement with the German Children and Youth Foundation and the SCHOLA-21 Revenues from mobile data products also grew strongly with non-SMS text data usage making an project.
Following the launch of a new internet platform in English, O2 developed yers, handbooks and increasingly important contribution.
The volume of SMS text messages sent during the year increased contacts to international networks and schools.
O2 began a schools competition in partnership with the by 33 per cent and data as a proportion of service revenue rose from 19.5 per cent to 21.8 per cent in the German Olympic Association with the topic: Olympia more than Olympic Games.
We also supported financial year ended 31 March 2005.
Some 24 per cent of our customers now use non-SMS data services.
another GOA project Kinder bewegen that aims to improve the movement of children, making donations to ten Kindergartens for a three-year period.
O2 is supporting new learning software, Polly The launch of high-speed UMTS services in the current financial year should add increasing momentum and Fred, that enables schoolchildren to learn how to handle their handsets properly in a play environment.
to our mobile data revenues.
O2 began its UMTS service in April 2004 offering a UMTS laptop card to its business users, and followed this with laptop and UMTS handset surng for consumers.
In addition to Looking ahead mobile internet access, which offers download speeds of up to 384kbps, O2 customers on UMTS have been For the coming year, O2 will adhere to its target of profitable growth supported by the extension of able to make video calls and make use of a broad range of video streams.
sales channels, including service providers and Tchibo.
At CeBIT in March 2005, we launched an innovative, high-speed offering, O surf@home, a service that directly complements O Genion.
Using this innovative 2 2 In July 2004, we launched our first UMTS-enabled tariff O Active.
In a complementary way to O Genion, UMTS data service, O2 customers are able to connect to the internet from their homes at xed line rates.
2 2 O Active enables us to target high-value customer groups, attracted by O Actives simplicity and valueThe combination of O Genion with O surf@home enables complete xed line substitution and increase 2 2 2 2 for-money attributes.
Minute bundles include calls to all networks, xed line and voicemail at anytime customer value and loyalty.
Innovative tariff models such as bundle tariffs or tariffs driving prepaid postpaid and anywhere.
Extra minutes always have the same price.
As well as the usual O surf@home WAP at rate convergence e. g. prepaid top-up vouchers will further help to increase cost control for the customer, 2 and O Music packs, O Active customers can also book SMS and voice packs including the O Afterwork but also drive ARPU for O2.
2 2 2 Pack, allowing unlimited calls in the evening to xed and other O2 numbers and the O Weekend Pack, with 2 a 1,000 minute bundle.
There will be a renewed focus on customer retention due to slower market growth and high market churn backed by further initiatives to improve the quality of our sales channels, products and customer service.
Our The high quality and appeal of our O Active portal service has already gained external recognition.
Europes customer segmentation strategy will aim to drive up customer satisfaction by meeting the expectations of 2 best selling telecom magazine Connect gave O Active two awards from both readers and experts as those asking for more simplicity on the one hand and the increasing number of customers starting to use 2 the best mobile portal in Germany ahead of Vodafone live!
In November advanced data services on the other.
2004, this advanced version of the O Active portal was also rolled out to most GPRS phones with a speed 2 option giving the users the choice of a faster version of that portal without losing any information.
Our In response to our success, we have launched an initiative to enable us to operate as a sustainable business strategy has been vindicated by the subsequent strong growth in the number of monthly portal users who in the medium term.
We are stepping up the rate of capital spending with the aim of becoming a full bring us higher trafc and premium content income.
network operator by extending and accelerating the roll-out of our UMTS network and reducing national roaming.
This will enhance the customer experience by delivering higher coverage and improved download rates while, at the same time, reducing our operating costs.
We will seek more aggressive growth with new products, for example by extending our unique O Genion offering, and continue to attract and retain high 2 value customers, backed by superior quality at the point of sale and customer service.
We aim in the medium term to match the profitability of similarly positioned network operators in other markets.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 12 Business review continued O2 Ireland A significant new development last year was the introduction of a new retail concept called O Experience.
2 Operational performance Three O Experience Stores were opened two in Dublin and one in Cork which give customers the 2 The focus for O2 Ireland over the past year has been to excel in offering our customers the best possible chance to view live demonstrations of all our products.
Reaction to the stores has been very positive.
experience each and every time they interact with O2.
This focus has meant a renewed effort in improving all areas where we are in contact with our customers, from a commitment to walk out working products, We are constantly seeking to make life and business easier for both our consumer and business customers.
to a superior customer care service and an efficient and customer friendly high-street presence through To this end, we introduced an exciting range of new products and services.
For business customers, these O2 Retail.
included the Fujitsu Siemens O Work Everywhere Package, O Instant and the O Connection Manager.
2 2 2 These products, all of which are aimed at saving time and money, have been well received in the business Throughout the financial year ended 31 March 2005, O2 Ireland has continued to improve its business and corporate markets.
Our consumer customers benefited from the introduction of reduced tariffs in 2004 performance, maintain current market share, and build upon the strength of the O brand.
and an exciting range of handsets and devices including the new BlackBerry.
2 With regard to customer acquisition up to March 2005, O2 Ireland had a particularly successful year.
We Maintaining the highest-quality network in order to maximise customer satisfaction remains a key focus announced the addition of 142,000 net new customers to the O2 network, representing a 10 per cent of our business.
Central to the success of our business is the maintenance and development of our increase from the same period the previous year.
This was largely driven by a very strong Christmas period GSM and UMTS networks, which are rated among the best in the world.
Last year, we invested almost with over 91,000 new customers joining the O2 network, ahead of our competitors performance.
In 3million a week in our network infrastructure.
We continue to build our network in a cost efficient addition to gaining new customers, we also succeeded in retaining our customers despite a range of and environmentally friendly way and continue, where possible, to share existing sites of other mobile competitive tariffs in the market, and despite the ease of mobile portability changing networks without operators and utilities providers.
We made progress in the building of our UMTS network, now extending to over 35 per cent of the With blended ARPU rising 1 per cent to 565, service revenue at constant exchange rates was population.
Limited trials of our UMTS service began in mid-2004 and plans are in place to bring commercial 13 per cent higher at 556 million and EBITDA was 223 million, a 7 per cent increase with UMTS services to Ireland in mid-2005.
Market dynamics Bolstered by one of the most iconic advertising campaigns ever conducted in Ireland, Network Powered The Irish market continues to be a highly challenging one for the mobile industry with penetration levels Ireland, the O brand has continued to strengthen apace.
In the third quarter of 2004, Total Spontaneous of mobile phones in the population now standing at over 90 per cent.
O2 Ireland holds the second 2 Awareness of the O brand stood at 91 per cent.
We were pleased that the Network Powered Campaign biggest share of the market with around 40 per cent.
2004 saw continued momentum by Meteor Mobile 2 was named Best Integrated Campaign by Marketing Magazine.
Communications with further gains in market share.
3 entered the market in January 2004 and has begun to roll-out its UMTS network.
Meanwhile, potential competitors in the telecommunications sector have Brand awareness was further supported by high level sponsorships and associations.
These included O2 expressed an interest in the mobile market following the proposed measures by ComReg the Irish in the Park, the Smurt European Open and our association with golf and rugby sporting stars such as communications regulator in December 2004 to encourage and allow MVNOs to access the networks of Padraig Harrington and Brian ODriscoll respectively.
In the business arena, last year saw joint initiatives both O2 Ireland and Vodafone Ireland.
with Dublin Chamber of Commerce through our sponsorship of E-Week to mark the accession of 15 new member States to the European Union and our on-going support of regional Chambers of Commerce Corporate responsibility around the country.
2004 saw an expansion of our CSR programme with the introduction of a range of exciting initiatives.
The O2 Ability Awards, run in conjunction with The Aisling Foundation, is the first awards programme to Driven by our focus on improving our customer experience, O2 Ireland continues to excel in customer recognise Irish businesses that demonstrate best practice in the employment of people with disabilities.
Customer Care satisfaction scores improved throughout the financial year ended 31 March 2005 support of the O2 Ability Awards has associated O2 in a positive way with a topical issue that is currently and O2 Retail excelled among its peers, proven by high scores in mystery shop activity.
We communicated high on the Irish social agenda.
the benets to our customers of certain services, for example music, through innovative new initiatives such as the opening of the Experience Zone at Dublins Point Theatre in September 2004. o2.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 13 O2 Ireland has continued to acknowledge those of its employees who work with charities outside their signed in 2000, has been built in fewer than five years, during which some 3,300 masts have been erected working days through our Can Do in the Community Awards.
These awards recognise the contribution and over 1 million miles of road driven to test the service.
It is arguably one of the most successful PFI made by employees to their local communities or selected charities outside working hours.
Over 99 per cent of mainland Great Britain is now covered by the service with 100 per cent population coverage.
In June 2004, O2, working closely with the Irish Cellular Industry Association ICIA, launched the first ever Irish Code of Practice for the responsible and secure use of mobile services.
The ICIA also published By the end of March 2005, O2 Airwave had more than 100,000 users, double the level of a year previously.
a Parents Guide and announced a joint industry trial on content ltering, led by O2 Ireland.
In addition to the police, O2 Airwave has won 38 new customers outside the main Police Information Technology Organisation contract, taking the total number of additional public service customers to 78.
They We are in our second year of sponsoring National Tree Week in conjunction with the Tree Council of Ireland include the Ministry of Defence police, the Prison Service, British Energy, Mersey Regional Ambulance and Coillte the Irish Forestry Board.
During National Tree Week in March 2004, over 300 events such as Service, Harley Street Ambulance Service, RAF Cranwell Police, the Highways Agency, the UK Atomic Energy forest walks, talks and tree planting ceremonies took place.
Authority Constabulary and Norfolk Local Authority.
Completion of the network roll-out led to a near doubling of revenues and, with tight control of costs, this led to an EBITDA of 72 million compared with 1 million 2004 saw the launch of our participation in the phone-recycling scheme, Fonebak, that enables customers in the previous year.
We invested a further 218 million in the network last year but, with completion to deposit their unused or broken mobile phones in recycle bins in all our O2 Retail stores throughout achieved, this gure will fall signicantly in the coming 12 months.
The scheme also provides funding for environmental charities such as National Tree Council of Ireland and the international charity, Rainforest Concern.
Airwave is a sophisticated, fully encrypted digital radio system, which cannot be scanned or monitored by outsiders.
It allows the police to communicate seamlessly and securely throughout England, Scotland and Looking ahead Wales.
Airwaves multifunctional handsets, combining a digital radio and mobile phone, also operate O2 Ireland will concentrate on maintaining a competitive edge in a highly competitive market and in a as data terminals enabling ofcers in the eld to access local and national databases.
In addition, Airwave more onerous regulatory environment.
We will maintain our focus on putting the needs of our customers provides a common platform for Public Safety Users, giving them true interoperability and comprehensive first and offering them a superior service while ensuring that our products and services meet their geographical coverage.
Using Airwave, police ofcers from different forces can talk to one another or to requirements.
We will continue to drive demand for data services and to increase revenue from this ofcers from other emergency services, whatever their location, who can in turn communicate directly with part of our business, building on the momentum gained in 2004. one another.
For the first time, Airwave will allow effective, and potentially life-saving, co-ordination of rescue efforts by the emergency services.
The ability of networks to keep working in times of emergency is O2 Ireland will be the first and only mobile operator in Ireland to bring a mobile internet service based on critical.
The Airwave response to incidents caused by bad weather like Boscastle in Cornwall in August 2004, the i-mode capability to customers from autumn 2005.
This will bring a completely new customer and Carlisle in Cumbria in January 2005, proved the networks innate resilience the service kept going experience to Irish consumers in terms of higher quality and fast access to content and an exciting range of when other communications networks failed and was used by all the emergency services dealing with these handsets.
Progress on our UMTS network continues and we are on target to bring commercial UMTS services major incidents.
Growth opportunities Along with maintaining and improving the customer experience, we will aim to lift our operational The continued threat of terrorism, the incidence of major accidents and heightened awareness of the impact performance again, building on last years success by meeting our growth targets for revenue, EBIDTA of natural disasters all demonstrate the increasing importance of secure and joinedup communications in and customer numbers.
both urban and more remote areas.
Against this background, there are significant opportunities for growth in the Airwave service.
O2 Airwave Operational performance The Civil Contingencies Act 2004 is likely to have a significant impact on all public safety organisations in their The Airwave network was completed, on time and on budget, at the end of March 2005.
The Airwave need to comply with the new legislation as first or second line responders and will present Airwave with a service, with its commitment to making communities safer by providing communication where and when it wider target audience.
We will also continue to market the service to other public safety users, including the matters most, has now been delivered to all 51 police forces in England, Scotland and Wales and the British utility companies, the Ministry of Defence, Health organisations, Fire Service, CCTV operators, Ports Police, Transport Police.
The network, under the terms of a 2.9 billion, 19-year contract with the Home Ofce and other Government organisations such as the Department of Works and Pensions, Customs & Excise, the Inland Revenue, the Immigration Service, the Environment Agency, HM Prisons, and local authorities.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 14 Business review continued Mobile data represents a significant opportunity for O2 Airwave.
In December 2004, O2 Airwave began the O2 Airwave seeks to be an active participant in the community.
As part of our Community Involvement Lancashire Police data trial with the Lancashire Constabulary, the largest ever mobile data trial in the UK, programme, we have sponsored two police dogs, the Lancashire Fire and Rescue safety help line, a involving 280 users.
Using the O2 Airwave Mobile Applications Gateway, Lancashire police ofcers are able Sportsmobile project with Bolton Lads and Girls Club, an Airwave Charity Golf Day, Middlesbrough Under to gain secure, continuous access to databases while on the move.
O2 Airwave is uniquely placed to develop 14s rugby club, and an anti-bullying campaign run by South Wales Police.
Money has also been raised for its market through the expansion of relevant mobile data applications for the police and other public safety a variety of good causes ranging from Millys Fund to the Tsunami appeal.
Currently 45 police forces have direct access from their handsets over the Airwave network to Airwave team climbed Englands highest mountain and rowed Englands longest lake in under 12 hours, the Police National Computer, allowing interrogation of vehicle registration and peoples names in seconds.
raising 15,000 for a Mini for Millys Fund.
O2 Airwave will continue to provide a secondee to the London Scottish police forces also have access to the Scottish Criminal Records Ofce.
Resilience Team, set up to ensure London and the regions keep working at times of disaster.
In the coming year, we will be offering a portfolio of mobile data products and services for deployment in Looking ahead our key markets.
Helping to meet the demand for greater visibility of the police within communities, our Increasing government funding into crime prevention, detection and improving public safety is leading to portfolio will consist of a range of data devices to meet both in-vehicle and hand-held needs.
It will include a increased police numbers and a greater reliance on new technology as services such as Ambulance and Fire suite of mobile applications designed to reduce police bureaucracy and eliminate unnecessary paperwork modernise and replace existing technology.
All these developments provide opportunities for O2 Airwave to both Home Ofce priorities.
Network-based gateways that enable feature-rich applications will be backed by deliver new services and allow safety organisations to improve their services to the public.
the touchstones of unmatched technology and customer service for which O2 Airwave is renowned.
Much of this portfolio of services has been developed from the successful experience gained from working with As emergency services customers start to take up mobile data, there is likely to be increased competition in trial customers such as the Lancashire Police Force.
the mobile data market, from the traditional mobile operators as well as niche players.
However, we believe O2 Airwave is well placed to penetrate the mobile data market with our unique proposition based on the In the case of Ambulance and Fire Services, much of their day-to-day work makes use of mobile data Airwave network and the Mobile Applications Gateway MAG.
The MAG delivers fast access to numerous capabilities to deliver information to where it is needed the most.
Hereford & Worcester Ambulance Trust databases and the intelligence to link these together, providing safety ofcers with on the job remote access has been using a patient telemetry service over the Airwave network since May 2002.
Patients vital data can to critical information.
O2 Airwave will become a true data solutions provider offering a unique range of be monitored by ambulance crews and transmitted over the Airwave network directly to hospital Accident & mobile data services to the customers it serves.
Emergency units, enabling life-saving treatment to begin at the scene of an incident, for example the use of clot-removing drugs which dramatically improve the chances of survival and recovery.
Every minute saved in The priorities for O2 Airwave going forward are to grow the business by meeting the needs of existing and the treatment of heart attack patients adds about 11 days to life expectancy.
One hundred interventions new customers through developing propositions that improve the safety of the nation.
We will enhance were made by Hereford and Worcester Ambulance Trust using the Airwave service in the first six months of our service to customers through the way we manage them on a daily basis and ensure that we deliver service, leading to patients lives being saved and extended.
benchmark standards for our network and service.
We will invest in our operational support systems and the capabilities of our people to strengthen our business as we grow.
Airwave need not be restricted to Great Britain.
Opportunities also exist to repeat our success overseas.
Any venture, whether approached directly or with partners, would, however, be carefully assessed for viability Manx Telecom and would have to t with O2 Airwaves strategy before it went ahead.
Operational performances Manx Telecom is a wholly owned subsidiary of O2 on the Isle of Man, holding licences to run xed and Corporate responsibility mobile telephony and internet services.
Manx Telecom is an ISP in its own right with a portfolio of quality O2 Airwave assesses its responsibility to its customers against key performance indicators created by those internet access and hosting products and services.
customers, which we strive to meet or exceed.
We have also established a reporting structure to conform with key indices developed by the Group in areas including the environment, waste management, employee Because of its successful track record as the first company in Europe to launch a live UMTS service back in satisfaction and treatment of our supply chain.
In November 2004, we achieved our key target of complying December 2001, Manx Telecom was chosen by O2 to run Europes first superfast 3G trial, in partnership with the ISO 14001 international standard for environmental management.
In May 2004, O2 Airwave with Lucent Technologies, using HSDPA technology.
HSDPA offers the possibility of communication speeds participated in the Corporate Responsibility audit carried out by Ernst & Young.
up to three times faster than current commercial UMTS services.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 15 The installation of a Prepay Intelligent Network IN platform in November 2004 is enabling the company to Manx Telecom continues to sponsor the Manx Telecomputer Bus and a number of other local charities, offer a range of new services to its pre-pay mobile customers.
MMS on pre-pay was launched in December organisations and events, especially those involving young people, information technology and sport.
2004, WAP and full web access over GPRS was made available to pre-pay customers in March 2005, and These include the Road to Wimbledon junior tennis tournament, the Isle of Man junior cricket team tour the launch of outbound pre-pay roaming is planned for early in the next financial year.
The average number of Holland, a junior cricket coaching programme and a local cycling Time Trial League.
The company also of SMS texts sent per month increased to over 3.5 million by 31 March 2005. provided mobile phone equipment for a new college course relating to mobile technology for students with learning difficulties.
On 1 March 2005, Manx Telecom introduced the first in a series of planned new tariff packages for its xed line customers.
Called Choice, the new tariff offers free calls to local xed line phones at evenings Looking ahead and weekends, plus a 30 per cent reduction in local daytime call charges, for a monthly line rental charge We are looking forward to offering our customers the chance to trial the new superfast 3G services which of 13.00. will make available exciting new, video-based applications and services.
We will also continue our active support of the Isle of Man Government in offering a world-class telecommunications infrastructure to help Manx Telecom has continued with its major investment programme to make broadband available to as attract new companies and inward investment to the island in support of the Islands e-business strategy.
many customers on the Isle of Man as possible.
The installation of a number of mini DSLAM sites in more remote areas around the Island has increased coverage to around 99 per cent of local homes and businesses Regulation and take-up is currently around 19 per cent.
We conduct most of our business in the United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man.
We are therefore subject to national regulation in each of those countries as well as European Union-wide regulation.
Work is well under way on a major contract, announced last year, to design, supply, implement and support, in partnership with Dimension Data, a new island-wide network infrastructure for the Isle of Man Regulation in the EU Government.
A requirement of this contract was that Manx Telecom should become certied to BS7799 Regulation in the EU is governed by the EU regulatory framework for the electronic communications sector Security standard, and the company became the first company on the Isle of Man to achieve this in the EU Framework.
The EU Framework comprises four principal Directives.
Amongst other things, the December 2004.
Directives set out policy objectives and regulatory principles that National Regulatory Authorities NRAs must follow: they provide for a new authorisation system for companies which provide electronic communications Capital spending during the year was 10 million compared with 9 million in the previous financial networks and services, contain measures to ensure the universal provision of basic services to consumers, year.
We constantly monitor how well we are performing in the view of our customers.
Regular surveys and set out the terms on which providers may access each others networks and services.
Importantly, throughout the year measuring customer satisfaction showed that 85 per cent of customers were Very the EU Framework also harmonises the rules for deciding when regulation may be imposed on electronic satisfied with the service they had received.
In particular, it provides that electronic communications providers can usually only be subject to specic regulation in markets in which they have SMP.
SMP, for these purposes, is aligned to Market dynamics the competition law concept of dominance, which essentially means an ability to act independently of Manx Telecom is the only provider of mobile and xed telephony on the island.
Corporate responsibility The European Commission the Commission identied in a Recommendation published in February 2003 a Manx Telecom, in association with the Isle of Man Government, has provided a number of wireless WiFi list of markets which may be such as to justify the application of specic regulation the Recommendation.
hotspots at key locations around the Island, including at Isle of Man Airport.
As part of the Isle of Man The Recommendation includes the following mobile markets: i access and call origination on public mobile Governments E-Island strategy to encourage the use of Internet technology on the island, Internet access telephone networks: ii voice call termination on individual mobile networks: and iii wholesale national at these sites is being provided free to users for the first year.
market for international roaming on public mobile networks.
In December 2004, Manx Telecom completed its certication to ISO 14001, the international standard for NRAs must conduct market reviews in order to determine whether any companies have SMP in any of the environmental management.
markets identied in the Recommendation.
NRAs may also, with the Commissions consent, review markets that are not listed in the Recommendation.
Where a company is found to have SMP in any market, the regulator must impose one or more of the following SMP conditions on it: transparency: non-discrimination: o2.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 16 Business review continued accounting separation: access: price control and cost accounting.
In exceptional circumstances, a regulator Regulation in Germany may impose additional or alternative obligations, but these have to be approved by the Commission.
If a The EU Framework was implemented in Germany at the end of June 2004 by the Telecommunication company is found not to have SMP in a market, then SMP conditions cannot be imposed on it, and existing Act TKG.
Responsibility for regulation of electronic communications networks and services lies with the regulation must be removed.
Regulation in the United Kingdom RegTP is currently reviewing the three relevant mobile markets access and call origination, voice call Implementation of the New EU Regulatory Framework termination and wholesale international roaming, and is not expected to conclude these reviews before the The EU Framework was implemented in the UK by the Communications Act 2003 Communications Act on second quarter of 2005.
As part of its review of voice call termination, RegTP has reached the preliminary 25 July 2003.
Under the Communications Act, responsibility for the regulation of electronic communications conclusion that all mobile operators have SMP in the market for call termination on their own networks.
networks and services lies with the Ofce of Communications Ofcom.
RegTP is currently consulting with third parties on this preliminary position.
Market reviews During the fourth quarter of 2004, we agreed with the German xed network operator T-Com to reduce In the UK, the regulator concluded in November 2003 that no mobile network operator either individually our wholesale termination charges in Germany.
However, at the end of 2004 a xed operator known as or jointly had SMP in the market for access and call origination on public mobile telephone networks.
01051 asked us to offer them a lower termination charge.
The matter was referred to RegTP, which This meant that various regulatory obligations which had previously been imposed on us and Vodafone approved our German termination charges.
Regulation in Ireland In June 2004, Ofcom completed its review of voice call termination on individual mobile networks.
As a The EU Framework was implemented into Irish law on 25 July 2003.
Responsibility for regulation of the result of that review, Ofcom concluded that the charges we made to other operators for terminating calls on communications industry in Ireland lies with a three-person regulatory body, known as the Commission for our network call termination had to be cut.
From 1 September 2004, Ofcom required us to lower our call Communications Regulation ComReg.
termination charges from an average of 8.03 pence per minute to an average of 5.63 pence per minute.
Ofcom recently indicated its intention to apply the charge control until March 2007, and to conduct a wideFollowing its market review, on 22 February 2005 ComReg issued a decision designating us and Vodafone ranging review of voice call termination regulation with a view to determining the regulatory regime with with SMP in the wholesale mobile access and call origination market in Ireland.
On 9 December 2004, ComReg also issued a consultation on appropriate remedies in the wholesale mobile Ofcom has also commenced a review of the wholesale international roaming market in the UK.
This review access and call origination market.
It proposed to place obligations on us and Vodafone to provide access is being co-ordinated with a number of regulators in other EEA member states, all of which sent to our networks on reasonable request and not to withdraw access services already provided, such as the questionnaires to operators in their respective countries in December 2004.
On conclusion of the review, national roaming services provided by O2 Ireland to Meteor, as well as certain non-discrimination, costregulators will decide whether it is necessary to regulate wholesale roaming.
orientation, accounting separation and cost accounting obligations.
ComReg proposes to issue a further consultation on the detailed draft measures relating to price control and cost accounting issues.
National roaming O2 UK and Vodafone are subject to an obligation to negotiate a national roaming agreement with the new On 21 March 2005, we notied the Minister for Communications, Marine and Natural Resources, and entrant mobile network operator, 3 the National Roaming Condition.
In accordance with this obligation, ComReg of our intention to appeal ComRegs SMP decision.
We expect the Minister to convene an Appeal we entered into an agreement with 3 to permit it to use our second generation network to originate and Panel, which must endeavour to determine the appeal within four months.
terminate calls to and from its subscribers while it builds its own UMTS network.
On 22 December 2004, 3 invited mobile operators to tender for the supply of second generation roaming services to 3 when the In July 2003, we agreed with ComReg to reduce mobile termination rates by Retail Price Index minus exclusivity period in their agreement with O2 expires.
Although Ofcom proposed discontinuing the National 8 per cent per annum for the period 31 August 2003 to 31 August 2005.
In 2004, ComReg found that Roaming Condition in July 2004, its decision on this issue has been postponed pending the outcome of 3s all four mobile operators in Ireland have SMP on the market for call termination on their own networks.
This decision has been appealed by 3 to the national Appeal Panel, which has yet to reach a decision on the matter.
ComReg has yet to publish its decision on the remedies to be imposed.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 17 ComReg has also commenced its review of the national market for wholesale international roaming.
This Infrastructure sharing and national roaming review is being co-ordinated with a number of regulators in other EEA member states, including Ofcom in We have a UMTS  and national roaming agreement with T-Mobile in Germany.
On conclusion of the review, regulators will decide whether it is necessary to regulate national agreement was formally notied to the Commission for negative clearance or exemption under Article 81 markets for wholesale international roaming.
and cleared by Decision of 16 July 2003.
Regulation in the Isle of Man The Commission took the view that the infrastructure sharing aspects of the agreements did not restrict The Isle of Man is a self-governing Crown Dependency with its own parliament and is not part of the United competition.
National roaming, on the other hand, was considered restrictive of competition, but was Kingdom or the EU.
Accordingly, Manx legislation and regulations predominantly govern our operations in granted exemption from Article 81 for certain specified time periods.
We lodged an appeal with the the Isle of Man.
European Court of First Instance on 25 September 2003.
On 1 January 2004, our new licence extension, awarded by the Isle of Man Government for 15 years, came We also have a 2G national roaming agreement with T-Mobile in Germany.
The German competition into force.
authority indicated in August 1999 that national roaming agreements may infringe competition laws but that, in the case of our agreement with T-Mobile, this was unlikely to be the case at that time.
Competition law However, it reserved the right to review this position.
EU competition law We are subject to the general competition law of the EU and, in particular, Articles 81 and 82 of the EC Key markets Treaty Article 81 and Article 82, which prohibit anti-competitive agreements or concerted practices and the Europe includes some of the most advanced markets for mobile services in the world.
These markets are abuse of a dominant position respectively where there is an effect on trade between EU Member States.
characterised by relatively high mobile penetration rates and high GDP per capita.
Across Western Europe, the proportion of total voice trafc carried over mobile rather than xed-line networks continues to increase.
EU competition law is enforced by the Commission and, since 1 May 2004, has also been enforced by These markets are also seeing an increasing proportion of mobile revenues attributable to mobile data services national competition authorities and national courts.
Companies which breach EU competition law can be and we expect this trend to continue.
subjected to fines of up to 10 per cent of a groups worldwide annual turnover.
They may also be sued in national courts by third parties which suffer loss as a result of the breach.
Our mobile businesses cover two of the largest markets in Europe, with the UK and German markets giving us access to a total population of approximately 148 million people.
All our markets have seen growth over We are also subject to the national competition law of the countries in which we operate.
In the UK, the last few years in the number of mobile telephone users, in large part reecting strong demand for Germany and Ireland, national competition law broadly mirrors the provisions of EU competition law, competitively priced pre-pay offerings.
Our markets are seeing the emergence of additional wholesale prohibiting anti-competitive agreements or concerted practices and the abuse of a dominant position.
Through wholesale agreements, network operators are able to sell capacity and services on a large scale to other service providers and mobile virtual network operators.
International roaming charges The Commission has been investigating the price of wholesale international mobile roaming services in the Historically, the number of customer connections to mobile telephone networks in the markets where we UK and Germany.
In the context of this investigation, on 26 July 2004 the Commission sent us and are present has been greater during the second half of the financial year than during the first half, primarily Vodafone two separate statements of objections in the UK.
The statements of objections allege that our due to increased sales during the Christmas period.
See Operating and financial review and prospects wholesale international roaming charges were excessive from 1998 until September 2003 and that this Factors affecting our business.
amounted to an infringement of Article 82.
However, the Commission has not yet reached a final decision on whether there was an infringement.
O2 is currently responding to the statement of objections.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 18 Business review continued The table below presents selected data regarding the principal countries in Europe in which our businesses Network and service platform technology operate.
Transforming our networks to mobile broadband has continued with the build out of UMTS across the UK, Germany and Ireland to give data speeds up to 384kbps.
This is being extended into the Isle of Man later 1 Active mobile this year Lucent core & radio with an upgraded UMTS deployment that will incorporate HSDPA technology customers O2 penetration customers with customer speeds up to 1Mbps and IMS Internet Protocol Multimedia services that provides richer at 31 March at 31 March 1 services.
As this is rolled out to all our customers it will enable them to quickly and easily download DVDPopulation 2005 2005 Country in millions per cent in 000s quality lm clips, audio and video, interactive multiplayer games, multimedia music tracks, push-to-watch services as well as access large email attachments three times faster than todays commercial UMTS Germany 84 83 7,976 networks.
These speeds have already been extended this year by giving access to our customers to public United Kingdom 60 103 14,384 WLANs in transit areas.
This has been added to in Germany with O surf@home to give home internet access Ireland 497 1,533 2 via our UMTS network.
All these enhanced capabilities require an easy-to-use customer experience for the Total 148 23,893 ever increasing array of internet services.
Therefore, we are adding Japans successful NTT DoCoMo i-mode 1 Source: EMC Worldwide Cellular Database, May 2005. technology to give superior performance from a tightly specified device to network service.
This will be Note: The number of customers shown in the table above is equivalent to the number of active SIM cards.
Hence, where some people have more than one active SIM card, it is possible for penetration to exceed 100 per cent.
launched in UK and Ireland second half of 2005 and under our own brand in Germany next year.
Employees Information technology The Group had the full time equivalent of 14,914 employees at 31 March 2005, as set forth by country in The information technology deployed in the Group is critical to the efficient and effective operation of the the table below: businesses.
The focus for each business has been to: continually raise the standard of our service to our customers and the processes within our organisation: Country Number of employees maintain tight cost controls: United Kingdom 9,141 exploit investment in new systems, with development aimed at increasing our agility: and Germany 3,919 work together to leverage cross-Group benets.
Ireland 1,577 Isle of Man 277 IT systems are fundamental to the delivery of high standards of service to our customers, in our shops, in Total 14,914 billing, in customer care and in use of our services.
It remains a priority to ensure these systems operate effectively and there have been a number of initiatives to ensure they perform as well as the best in the industry.
Additionally, improvements in internal processes and reporting are being strengthened through the For the year ended 31 March 2005, the aggregate number of temporary staff employed by our businesses Groups compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. was 1,686.
While we have ensured that our IT costs are competitive within the industry, increased competition within In the United Kingdom, a number of our employees are represented by two recognised unions: Connect, our geography is driving tighter controls, and greater effectiveness.
Recent strategic investments are now which has representation rights in respect of junior management employees, and the Communications on-stream and are being exploited.
Investment in new systems will continue where this is required to Workers Union, which has representation rights in respect of clerical, engineering and technical employees.
Membership of these unions is individual and voluntary.
In addition, a non-unionised employee representative body represents certain managers.
Our other operating businesses also meet with their The IT community from each of the operating businesses has continued to work together where benets employee representative bodies, or works councils, regularly.
We believe that our businesses have a good have been clearly identied.
This has enabled us to improve our common infrastructure, use common relationship with our employees and their representatives.
products and to deploy Group-wide systems where a common approach is required.
Additional framework contracts with key suppliers have been agreed including HP, Sun and Oracle.
