Supplier of choice: delivering great Checking production quality taste Steven, bakery operations manager Enjoying crispy duck Yum!
White chocolate & lemon mini muffins Becky and Liberty Sophie 14 Business review Northern Foods plc regimes, the average consumer does not.
We recognised the business Business review: potential of creating a biscuit range that was low in fat but still tasted great.
Officially Low Fat by Foxs was the result.
The range is designed This section describes how Northern Foods is pursuing its goal of to help consumers make an educated choice about snacks, with fat being supplier of choice.
We look at four key areas: our relationships content of less than 3 per cent, and calories clearly indicated on every with consumers and customers: our approach to category management: pack.
The number of consumers buying into the brand has risen rapidly our capability within the business: and opportunities for delivering during the year, with purchases being made by more than 7 per cent of tighter cost control.
Healthy biscuits are now the second largest biscuit sector in the category, with year-on-year growth of 10 per cent.
Officially The strategic business review carried out during the year confirmed Low Fat has massively outgrown the rest of the sector.
the inherent strengths of the business, our scale, our reputation for quality, our well-invested assets and the skills and professionalism of Building customer relationships our people.
The report also confirmed that operating as a collection It was clear from the review that customers were seeking the of small businesses meant we were failing to exploit our scale activity synergies that a better coordinated business could offer.
We know was fragmented and customer management was uncoordinated.
retailers want suppliers that are quick to adapt in a fast-changing and competitive market.
Beyond the supply of great products and leading Meeting consumer needs edge innovation they want a collaborative approach to category The review confirmed the quality, reach and relevance of our development, detailed consumer insight and a mutual approach products.
Social, economic and demographic changes over the last to reducing costs.
10 years have transformed all our eating habits.
Smaller households, busier lives, the demand for choice, fewer people able or willing The review showed that working with Northern Foods was previously to cook, the decline of the family sit-down meal and more people a complex proposition with multiple points of contact for the taking foreign holidays are all factors influencing the kind of food customer and a scattered approach to innovation.
We have therefore that consumers want to buy.
As a result, the convenience foods organised our customer facing teams to make it easier for customers sector has outgrown the rest of the UK packaged food sector.
We know from feedback that the approach is being well received.
We also know that it is creating stronger customer As they juggle busy lives, consumers are looking for food ideas which relationships and opening up new business opportunities.
For example, are not only convenient but also satisfy their desire for indulgence, a client relationship with ASDA in the area of chilled savoury pastry healthy eating and affordability.
Northern Foods is well positioned was shared with colleagues and resulted in a new business win for to support these needs.
We are also working to develop our existing category champions programme, ensuring that our category know-how Growth through innovation is translated into value added propositions for customers.
These trends also play to the skills and capabilities of Northern Foods, not least our capacity to innovate.
Our work in the healthy eating The opportunities for Northern Foods are clear and we are focused sector of the business market demonstrates the point.
Consumer on creating a powerful shared agenda with our customers in order insight indicated that while some people want to follow rigid dietary to grow the business to its full potential.
the strategic business review confirmed that Northern Foods has considerable strengths Northern Foods plc Business review 15 Relevant products Stronger focus on these chosen categories means getting out of Translating superior insight into superior category positions is one those categories where we are not a scale player or where our business of the challenges we are addressing at Northern Foods.
As we look is not focused on our primary UK and Irish markets.
This approach to sharpen our competitive edge, we start with the advantage of drove the sale of the Eden Vale Minsterley, Emile Tissot and a strong and attractive product range one that reflects the kind Cavaghan & Gray Seafood businesses.
of foods that todays consumers increasingly want to buy.
Driving growth through category development With our expertise spread across three major areas of food production: At the same time, we are applying ever greater rigour to our chosen frozen: ambient: and chilled, the Northern Foods product portfolio categories, using market insight to improve performance.
For example, of branded and own label products includes ready meals, pies and the Goodfellas brand team identified an opportunity to create a pizza pastries, pizza, salads, bread, biscuits and cakes a choice ranging from with broad family appeal in order to grow incremental sales in the savoury to sweet, indulgence to healthier eating and snacks to meals.
Real category scale With the proposition Italian pleasure that brings your family together, Northern Foods operates in market categories which present strong Goodfellas Delicia is the most authentic stonebaked thin pizza in the opportunities for growth.
Compared to a 3 per cent growth for the frozen market.
Launched in 2003, the brand has captured an 11 per cent food market as a whole, we are seeing an aggregated 5 per cent market share the highest in its sector.
growth rate in our core categories.
Our sharper approach to category management has also meant that Within our own label business, we enjoy strong market positions for we have been able to buck the trend in categories which are perceived all our chosen categories, with all the major retailers.
We have wide to be stable or in decline.
This ability was demonstrated with the and deep customer reach with key strengths in chilled savoury pastry relaunch of Creations, a premium priced biscuit range from Foxs.
and ready meals and opportunities to build further on our positions The product is a seasonal one, with a heavy reliance on the Christmas in other categories.
Foxs recognised that Creations was being bought to satisfy different consumer needs and was often chosen as a gift.
Accordingly, Our brands enjoy positions of strength.
We have market leadership as part of an overall reformat of the product involving the introduction in frozen pizza through our Goodfellas brand, we are number one of new biscuits and new pack design, the company created a pack size in premium biscuits through our Foxs brand and we have market which was ideal for gifting.
Backed by press and poster advertising, leadership in pork pies with our Pork Farms brand.
the relaunched range helped Foxs increase sales of Creations by nearly 40 per cent against an overall market segment decline of Focusing on our strengths 4 per cent.
It has also helped open up new commercial opportunities Maintaining market position, through continuous innovation and including potential brand extensions.
value delivery, presents a major challenge for the entire sector.
It is therefore critical to differentiate Northern Foods products in each category in which we operate.
we start with the advantage of a strong and attractive product range UK Packaged food, excludes fresh meat and fish.
Source: TNS: Euromonitor: and Northern Foods estimates 16 Business review Northern Foods plc Creating new oriental dishes Anticipating a steak & mushroom pie Dave, development chef Nick Serving party food Broghan delivering great choice Northern Foods plc Business review 17 delivering great progress Decorating 700 cakes an hour Julie, hand cake decorator Lunch on the go with a BBQ chicken wrap Getting the deliveries organised Marcus Leroy, distribution co-ordinator 18 Business review Northern Foods plc Pursuing best practice and expanding our capability As we continue to raise operating standards we have also completed During the year Northern Foods set out to simplify and streamline a benchmark survey of all aspects of our supply chain.
We are now its operations.
The company moved from working as 15 smaller responding to its findings through a process of detailed site planning.
operating companies to becoming an integrated business with a divisional structure focused on our core competencies of frozen, Enabling exceptional performance ambient and chilled food production.
The closure of two production A major priority for the business is to capture value through sites in Evesham and Carlisle allowed us to consolidate the production the development of exceptional people, processes and technology.
of key product categories in the process.
We have started to see some great performances by motivating, These structural changes have inevitably been painful but, in our developing and rewarding our leadership team to create a culture pursuit of best practice, they have been a fundamental part of the of continuous improvement.
We are working hard to infuse specific process of focusing and aligning our operations and our people.
leadership skills into the business, adding edge to the considerable know-how that our people already have.
One tool to support this Continuous improvement process has been the introduction of a new Leadership Framework As we work to build capability, a key area of focus has been the which sets out several critical behaviour styles.
This is being underpinned pursuit of manufacturing excellence and this has been one of the by The Learning Zone, an online personal development tool which main GET FIT programme initiatives during the year.
A five-step is being regularly accessed by our top managers.
approach to common standards and continuous improvement has been established and the programme is benefiting from the greater We also recognised that to build a winning culture, characterised by involvement of our employees.
leadership and accountability, rewarding people for success is key.
In this context, the development of a performance-based remuneration The success of the approach is best captured in the words of one policy was seen as a priority and this has been put in place for of our factory managers: Using daily reviews and action teams is implementation in 2005 06. delivering real benefits to this site, in terms of quantifiable results and an improved culture.
We started in the sleeve-up and despatch Technology will also play a key role in changing our business.
The area and got people involved and working as a team and organising successful completion of the SAP rollout and our update to MySAP the area so that it was a safer, better place to work.
We tracked during the year means that Northern Foods is now the only chilled improvements through daily reviews and basic Key Performance food manufacturer in the UK that successfully operates SAP across Indicators KPIs.
The turnaround showed us what could be achieved its supply chain.
The challenge now is for Northern Foods to realise and weve now rolled out the process across the site.
Persistent issues the full benefit from this substantial investment.
are being tackled with action teams to ensure longer term benefits.
during the year we set out to simplify and streamline our operations Northern Foods plc Business review 19 Managing our costs to optimise our performance Measuring progress Responding to the changing needs of consumers and the demands A further important initiative in the year was the development and of retail customers has added complexity and therefore costs implementation of our MI system which clearly defines group-wide to the Northern Foods way of operating over the past few years.
Key Results Areas and associated KPIs.
Developed by the leadership At the same time, our decentralised business model resulted in team, these KPIs have now been cascaded through the business and an unacceptable level of overheads.
The inevitable increase in costs provide a framework for focusing employees around key performance resulted in disappointing financial performances.
A major priority metrics such as waste or labour savings.
The KPI metrics, combined for the GET FIT programme has therefore been to focus on areas with data from the MI system, enable complete transparency of costs where we could reduce duplicate costs and manage processes and across the business and are beginning to play a powerful role in operations in a more streamlined manner in order to achieve lower measuring our progress.
Based on the findings of our strategic business review, we also carried Leveraging our buying scale out more planning during the year as we considered how further A notable GET FIT success has been our work in the area of significant cost reductions could be phased across the business.
This procurement where centralisation of the function has delivered some analysis compared organisational structure against external best practice impressive results.
Under the guidance of new functional leadership and has now been translated into detailed site implementation plans with specialist experience of procurement, we accelerated our savings which charge the entire supply chain management team with by using our scale as one of the UKs largest buyers of goods and achieving greater savings.
Results are being achieved through a range of initiatives including simplification of the buying process, using SAP data to The strong foundation we have established during the year means speed up decision making and consolidating the number of suppliers we are in better shape to perform.
The changes being implemented with which we work.
The use of online technology to create e-auctions across the business provide Northern Foods with the platform we has also been tested.
A range of savings has already been achieved need to achieve our strategic objective of building operating margin in this area and the process has reinforced the benefits of our by 100 basis points by 2007.
Rigorous programme management To drive the overall change process and ensure that cost savings are realised, we established a dedicated Programme Office.
Using tight project management disciplines, this team has been specifically charged with identifying productivity improvements for each of the GET FIT initiatives.
Progress will be tracked on a monthly basis, allowing fast, corrective action wherever necessary and ensuring that success is quickly identified and can therefore be shared across the business.
the foundation we established during the year means we are in better shape to perform 20 Business review Northern Foods plc Creating new Christmas cake ranges Dunking a cookie at tea time David, Tammie and John, new product developers Hazel Sharing roast vegetable tarts The Wright family delivering great changes Northern Foods plc Business review 21
