BUSINESS REVIEW Bob Baty Chief Executive South West Water Limited IN A YEAR DOMINATED BY THE FINAL STAGES OF THE PERIODIC REVIEW PROCESS FOR THE PERIOD 2005 2010, SOUTH WEST WATER CONTINUED TO DELIVER EXCELLENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, FIRST CLASS LEVELS OF PRODUCT AND CUSTOMER SERVICE AND OUTPERFORMED CHALLENGING REGULATORY TARGETS.
An ongoing programme of restructuring and continuous SOUTH WEST WATER LIMITED improvement in order to reduce significantly overhead and operating costs is in progress.
The company, which The companys turnover increased by 6.2% from 291.8 has an excellent track record in this area, has since 1995 million to 309.8 million with Ofwat approved tariff reduced base costs by 50.1 million.
increases accounting for 21.2 million of the increase together with 7,300 new customer connections and In line with regulatory requirements, capital expenditure incremental commercial sales.
25,400 customers remained at virtually the same level as the previous year switched from an unmeasured to a measured charging at 141.9 million.
66.1 million was invested in water basis offsetting the turnover increase by 6.3 million.
supply improvements, including water mains renovation, water treatment works enhancement and leakage South West Waters operating profit increased by 2.8 control.
Ofwats latest report on leakage noted that South million to 121.7 million before the exceptional West Water continues to be one of the leading companies restructuring charge of 3.4 million.
Operating costs in managing water leakage and continues to deliver increased by 15.2 million to 188.1 million including results in line with the regulatory leakage target.
Over 5.7 million for the operation of new capital schemes, 600 kilometres of water mains were laid, replaced or inflation of 4.4 million and 9.2 million of other costs refurbished during the year, a major increase on the mainly pensions, direct cost of sales and bad debts.
Drinking water quality is at an all time high costs were offset by efficiency savings of 4.1 million.
and the region features the highest proportion of high quality rivers in England.
4 Pennon Group Plc Waste water investment expenditure totalled 75.8 In December 2004, Ofwat announced its Final million for the year.
Commissioning of the Ilsham Valley Determination on price level increases for the period Pumping Station in Torbay commenced in early April 2005 2010, which confirmed average price increases of 2004 and its operation signalled the completion of the around 25% in real terms over the five year period.
final major project in the companys 15 year original Throughout the Periodic Review process, South West Clean Sweep coastal sewage treatment improvement Water endeavoured to strike the right balance between programme.
Clean Sweep has transformed the coastal value for money investment, financeability and customer environment around the South West and 81% of the affordability whilst acknowledging that further price regions bathing waters now meet the stringent EU increases were inevitable in order that the company guideline standards and 98% of bathing waters conform would be able to meet the Governmental and regulatory with EU mandatory standards.
ments are amongst the very best in the UK.
The Determination represents a very tough challenge for The successful delivery of both coastal water and river the company, but one it has accepted and will overcome.
water quality improvement programmes has been a It has already implemented a number of reorganisational pivotal factor in the regions attainment of higher levels and restructuring initiatives in order to attain the of environmental enhancement in support of economic demanding efficiency targets imposed, including a prosperity.
manpower reduction programme which will see employee levels reduced by 100 over the period.
A further measure of the companys success has been its progress within the 2003 04 Ofwat Overall Performance Assessment which has seen South West Water achieve one of the largest performance improvements during the year as capital expenditure, previously constrained in a range of business areas whilst the coastal clean-up was delivered, is now being invested in other areas.
Pennon Group Plc 5 BUSINESS REVIEW Colin Drummond Chief Executive Viridor Waste Limited VIRIDOR WASTE DELIVERED FURTHER STRONG GROWTH BOTH ORGANICALLY AND BY ACQUISITION.
The previous years acquisition, Churngold Holdings VIRIDOR WASTE LIMITED Limited now renamed Viridor Waste Bristol Holdings Limited has been fully integrated into the business and Viridor Waste made continued excellent progress with was earnings enhancing after goodwill amortisation, one its focused strategy of: year ahead of forecast at the time of acquisition.
capitalising on its strong position in landfill In April 2004, Viridor Waste acquired Thames Waste waste disposal Management now renamed Viridor Waste Thames Limited for 30.8 million.
This company comprised one exploiting opportunities in landfill gas power operational landfill of four million cubic metres of generation in line with the Governments target of consented void strategically located within the M25 increasing the proportion of electricity generated motorway near Sutton, Surrey, 5 megawatts MW of from renewable sources landfill gas power generation capacity and four liquid pursuing profitable opportunities arising from the treatment facilities together with an associated tanker Governments developing waste strategy.
This acquisition also included a contract to handle the disposal of Thames Waters sewage sludge.
Since Financial results for the year were particularly strong.
acquisition, it has won a similar contract with Southern Turnover at 248.3 million increased by 35.6% on the Water.
This acquisition has also now been fully integrated previous year.
Operating profit before goodwill at 29.8 into the business and was earnings enhancing after million increased by 31.3% driven by good performance integration costs and goodwill amortisation, one year from the underlying landfill, power generation and ahead of forecast.
collection businesses and the positive impact of the Thames Waste Management Limited acquisition.
Since During the year Viridor Waste gained planning approval 2000 01 operating profit before goodwill has grown at a for an additional 3 million cubic metres of void, along compound rate of 22.8% per annum, of which around with associated recycling and composting at its strategic 12% has been organic, with the rest being achieved landfill at Heathfield in Devon.
After taking account of through acquisitions.
Profit before tax in the year at this and usage of 5 million cubic metres plus other minor 18.0 million increased by 22.4% on the previous year.
gains and losses, Viridor Wastes consented void was 80 This financial performance reflects the success of Viridor million cubic metres at 31 March 2005.
6 Pennon Group Plc Landfill inputs excluding cover were 4 million tonnes At the same time, municipal landfill diversion creates new including Thames Waste Management.
Excluding the opportunities as councils seek to let long-term integrated effect of the Thames Waste Management acquisition, waste management contracts in order to meet their volumes on a like-for-like basis increased 2% on the diversion targets and avoid penalties.
Revenues per tonne were 10% up.
In July will often attract Private Finance Initiative PFI funding.
2004, the disposal of various types of hazardous waste to Viridor Waste believes there may be significant non-hazardous landfills was banned which resulted in opportunities in these contracts, subject to a fair sharing particularly strong landfill volumes and prices in the first of risk between councils and contractors and is pursuing half of the year in advance of the ban.
During the year, the company commenced its first such contract with West Sussex During the year, Viridor Waste brought a further 7MW of County Council and it has performed well.
landfill gas power generation on stream in line with its Viridor Waste is also exploring a range of new policy of exploiting its landfill gas for generation of technologies with Government financial assistance electricity and benefiting from premium prices under the DEFRA London Recycling Fund, in partnership with its Governments system of renewable obligation certificates council customers.
It has opened in-vessel composting ROCs.
This brings the companys total capacity plants at Heathfield Devon and Beddington Surrey excluding a small amount handled by third party whilst others are under construction at Lackford Suffolk subcontractors to 52MW compared with 28MW in 2002 and Broadpath Devon.
The company has also gained before the introduction of the ROCs scheme.
planning permission and financial assistance from the Approximately 56% of this capacity benefits from ROCs.
London Recycling Fund for a mechanical biological During the year, the Government, as part of its treatment plant at its Beddington landfill.
Such developing waste strategy, announced specific targets technologies are likely to become more important as for the diversion of municipal waste from landfill in the councils strive to meet their diversion targets.
period up to 2020, along with a system of penalties for Viridor Waste sees sustainability as key to its overall councils who fail to meet their targets.
These targets flow business and sets great store by its environmental and from the European Landfill Directive.
There are no social policies.
These will be covered more fully in specific targets for other waste streams such as Pennons annual corporate responsibility report.
Viridor industrial, commercial and construction demolition Waste is pleased to report that it gained ISO 14001 waste which account for roughly two thirds of the landfill accreditation at a further two centres during the year, market.
This may be expected to lead to a decline in the bringing the site accreditation total to 35 centres total volumes of waste going to landfill in the long-term.
However, with only around six years consented landfill capacity in the UK according to Environment Agency estimates, and with new consents becoming increasingly difficult to obtain, Viridor Wastes 80 million cubic metres of consented void are expected to become an increasingly valuable resource.
