Business Review 1 Description of Business 10 Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background 2 PacifiCorp 11 US Business Regulation 3 Infrastructure Division 12 Regulation of PacifiCorp 4 UK Division 13 Regulation of the Electricity 5 PPM Energy and Gas Industries in the UK 6 Group Employees 14 Environmental Regulation 7 Group Environmental Policy 15 Employment Regulation 8 Community Impact 16 Litigation 9 Description of the Companys 17 Summary of Key Operating Statistics Property developed with no material changes to its current operating plans, management structures or boards.
1 Description of Business Scottish Power plc ScottishPower, a public limited company Strategic Context registered in Scotland, is an international energy company listed ScottishPowers strategy is to focus its management and capital on on both the London and New York Stock Exchanges.
Through the further development of the three continuing businesses, which its operating subsidiaries, the company provides in excess of 6.7 the group judges to have attractive opportunities for continued million electricity or gas services to homes and businesses across growth through capital investment and improved operational the UK and in the western US.
It provides electricity generation, performance.
The regulated UK wires business provides a base for transmission, distribution and supply services in both countries.
steady growth through consistent investment and proven skills in In addition, the companys North American activities extend to operational and regulatory management.
In the competitive coal mining and gas storage, including gas facilities in western businesses where the groups management believes that it can Canada, Texas and New Mexico.
In Great Britain, ScottishPower deploy local market knowledge and employee skill advantages, it also stores and supplies gas.
In the year to 31 March 2005, the seeks to grow its market share and to enhance margins through sales revenues of the group were 6.8 billion $12.9 billion.
the integration of generation, energy management and customer ScottishPower was created upon privatisation in 1991 and services, underpinned by strong operational performance.
The aim then developed by both organic growth and strategic is consistently to improve operational performance whilst acquisitions in the British electricity, gas and telephony markets investing to support the organic growth and development of the - and through its November 1999 merger with PacifiCorp in the businesses.
The group expects growth to arise from investment in US.
Following the groups redefinition as an energy business in new generation, networks and gas storage assets.
ScottishPower 2001, it exited or disposed of non-strategic activities in the US will also seek to accelerate its organic growth through competitive and UK and demerged its UK telecommunications and internet market share gains and selective acquisitions of smaller operations business, Thus, to the companys shareholders.
that complement the groups business.
Shareholder value is Since 2002, ScottishPower has focused on investing for expected to be created through an investment programme growth and improving operational performance in its energy assessed on a risk-adjusted returns basis and aiming to retain businesses.
Following a strategic review of the scale and timing an A category credit rating for the groups principal operating of capital investment requirements, opportunities for growth subsidiaries.
Individual investments in the continuing regulated and improving operational performance and the likely profile business are expected to achieve at least the allowed rate of of returns from the groups businesses, ScottishPower has regulatory returns, whilst those in the competitive businesses entered into a binding agreement for the sale of PacifiCorp to are targeted to achieve returns of at least 300 basis points MidAmerican for $9.4 billion.
Regulatory approvals of the sale above each divisions weighted average cost of capital.
are expected to be forthcoming within 12 to 18 months.
Prior to sale, it is envisaged that PacifiCorp will be managed and 12 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 The group currently operates through four businesses, see chart above.
2 PacifiCorp PacifiCorp In November 1999, PacifiCorp and ScottishPower completed a merger under which PacifiCorp became an indirect subsidiary Infrastructure Division of ScottishPower.
Following the merger, PacifiCorp focused on UK Division its electricity businesses in the western US and embarked upon a programme of efficiency improvements.
Pending completion PPM Energy of its proposed sale to MidAmerican, PacifiCorp is expected to In each of the US and the UK, there is one business operating maintain this focus, without material changes to its operating under regulation and one in competitive market conditions.
plans, management structures or boards.
Each business is clearly focused on its strategic priorities.
In the US, PacifiCorp operates as a regulated electricity Principal Business Activities business and the competitive energy business is PPM Energy.
PacifiCorp is a regulated electricity company serving retail Both are subsidiaries of PacifiCorp Holdings, Inc. PHI a customers in portions of the states of Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, non-operating, US holding company, itself an indirect whollyWashington, Idaho and California.
As a  owned subsidiary of ScottishPower.
PHI is also the parent electricity business, PacifiCorp owns or has contracts for fuel company of PacifiCorp Group Holdings which owns the shares sources, such as coal and natural gas, and uses these fuel of subsidiaries not regulated as domestic electricity providers, sources, as well as wind, geothermal and water resources, to including PacifiCorp Financial Services, Inc. generate electricity at its power plants.
This electricity, together In the UK, the regulated Infrastructure Division operates with electricity purchased on the wholesale market, is electricity transmission and distribution subsidiaries of the transmitted over a grid of approximately 15,530 miles of wholly-owned UK holding company Scottish Power UK plc transmission lines throughout PacifiCorps six-state region and SPUK.
Other subsidiaries comprise the groups competitive is then transformed to lower voltages and delivered to end-use energy business, the UK Division, covering its generation assets customers through the approximately 58,360 miles of in the British Isles, its commercial and energy management PacifiCorps distribution system.
PacifiCorp conducts its retail activities and its energy supply business units.
electricity utility business as Pacific Power and Utah Power, and engages in electricity sales and purchases on a wholesale basis under the name PacifiCorp.
The subsidiaries of PacifiCorp support its electricity utility operations by providing coal mining facilities and services and environmental remediation.
13 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Business Review Description of Business The western US energy market is experiencing growth in higher than average levels of growth in that state.
These factors demand due to both increased customer numbers and suggest the likelihood of an increasing pace of economic underlying load growth.
Through the continual review and development and recovery across PacifiCorp service territories.
updating of its Integrated Resource Plan IRP, PacifiCorp For the five years to 31 March 2010, the underlying annual aims to maintain a balanced load and resource position and growth in retail megawatt hour MWh sales in PacifiCorps has hedged its forecast load and resource balance and price franchise service territories is estimated to be in the range of exposure for summer 2005, when demand is expected to be 2.2% to 3.3%, dependent upon factors such as economic supported by the commissioning of the first phase of the 525 growth, changes in customer numbers, weather, the potential megawatt MW Currant Creek plant in Utah.
PacifiCorp effects on demand resulting from conservation efforts and also continued to invest in support of network safety, reliability changes in price.
If energy prices increase in the region, and high-level performance, including targeted investments in demand growth over the region may slow.
areas of high demand growth.
Power Production and Fuel Supply Retail Electricity Sales PacifiCorp owns or has interests in generating plants with an PacifiCorp serves approximately 1.6 million retail customers in aggregate plant net capability of 7,981 MW, see Table 1 page service territories aggregating about 136,000 square miles in 33.
During 2004 05, approximately 74% and 5% of portions of six western states.
The geographical distribution of PacifiCorps energy requirements were supplied by its thermal PacifiCorps retail electricity operating revenues for the year and hydroelectric generation plants, respectively.
The ended 31 March 2005 was Utah, 41%: Oregon, 29%: Wyoming, remaining 21% was obtained primarily through purchased 14%: Washington, 8%: Idaho, 6%: and California, 2%.
The share of PacifiCorps energy requirements The PacifiCorp service areas diverse regional economy generated by its own plants will vary from year-to-year and is mitigates exposure to economic fluctuations.
In the eastern determined by factors such as planned and unplanned outages, portion of the service area, mainly Utah, Wyoming and availability and price of coal and natural gas, precipitation and southeastern Idaho, customer demand peaks in the summer snowpack levels, environmental considerations and the market when cooling systems and irrigation are heavily used.
PacifiCorp will make use of existing longprincipal industries are manufacturing, health services, term purchase contracts, including those covering some 65 recreation and mining or extraction of natural resources.
In the MW of wind power, and expects to choose appropriate costwestern part of the service territory, mainly consisting of effective resources to meet the balance of its customer demand Oregon, southeastern Washington and northern California, through new longand short-term purchase arrangements.
customer demand peaks in the winter months due to heating The IRP, under which PacifiCorp seeks to manage future requirements and the economy generally revolves around generation needs and meet environmental objectives, is agriculture and manufacturing, with forest products, food reviewed and updated every two years.
The latest IRP update processing, high technology and primary metals being the was filed in January 2005 and indicates that projected growth principal industries.
During 2004 05, no single retail customer rates and contract expirations imply a need for approximately accounted for more than 2% of PacifiCorps retail electricity 2,800 MW of additional resources by 2015.
These estimates are revenues and the 20 largest retail customers accounted for 13% subject to ongoing review and possible revision.
PacifiCorp is of retail electricity revenues.
Trends in energy sales by class of continuing to develop plans to meet this resource requirement customer are set out in Tables 4 and 5 page 34. through a mix of new thermal generation, load control PacifiCorp serves some areas of rapidly changing programmes, energy conservation programmes and the population size and economic activity.
Strong growth in the renewable resources first identified in the 2003 IRP.
number of residential customers in Utah over recent years and Large resource procurement action items from PacifiCorps increasing numbers of central air conditioning systems are IRP are pursued through the Requests for Proposals RFP contributing to a faster summer peak growth.
Commercial sales process which seeks to identify PacifiCorps future resource are positioned for growth in the eastern portion of the service mix though a programme coordinated with stakeholders in the territory, particularly Utah, because of strong population and six states it serves.
From the first of the RFPs, in 2003, economic viability and through Utahs central role in the PacifiCorp determined that the construction of a new 525 MW manufacture, distribution and delivery of goods to surrounding gas-fired plant in Utah would be the lowest risk and most western states.
Wyoming is continuing to experience increasing economical 2004 05 resource category choice to meet future industrial activity in its energy-related sectors, with rising generation needs.
This plant, known as Currant Creek, has exploration and rig counts suggesting a positive trend in been fully authorised by the Utah authorities, is currently PacifiCorps future sales to the industrial sector in the state.
commissioning and is expected to come on-line in two phases Oregon has returned to pre-recessionary conditions statewide over 2005 and 2006.
In 2004, PacifiCorp chose Summit and PacifiCorp serves a number of communities showing Vineyard LLC for the construction of a 534 MW Lake Side 14 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Power Plant near Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Utah Public qualifying facilities constructed and operated by entities that Service Commission UPSC has granted all the permissions are not public utilities.
During 2004 05, PacifiCorp purchased required to construct and operate the Lake Side Power Plant, an average of 139 MW from qualifying facilities, compared to and PacifiCorp is scheduled to begin operating the plant in an average of 119 MW in 2003 04.
In May 2005, PacifiCorp entered into a 65 MW power purchase agreement, to take effect prior to January 2006, for the output of a windfarm located in southeastern Idaho.
Further negotiations continue to bring into use some 3 Infrastructure Division 1,100 MW of new renewable resources across the PacifiCorp Three wholly-owned subsidiaries of SPUK SP Transmission service territories over the period to 2010, as a result of the Limited, SP Distribution Limited and SP Manweb plc are the February 2004 RFP.
asset-owner companies holding the groups UK regulated At 31 March 2005, PacifiCorp had 259 million tons of assets and transmission and distribution licences.
A further recoverable coal reserves that are mined by PacifiCorps wholly-owned subsidiary of SPUK SP Power Systems mining affiliates and are available to nearby PacifiCorpLimited PowerSystems provides asset management operated generation plants, see Table 2 page 33.
During expertise and conducts the day-to-day operation of the 2004 05, these mines supplied some 29% of PacifiCorps total networks.
Coal is also acquired through longand short-term contracts.
Thirteen long-term coal contracts Principal Business Activities accounted for 70% of the overall 2004 05 requirements.
The The asset-owner companies act as an integrated business unit contract terms range from one to 18 years.
PacifiCorp has also to concentrate divisional expertise on regulatory issues and entered into fixed-price and index-price natural gas contracts investment strategy.
PowerSystems implements work to meet the forecasted needs of its existing natural gas-fired programmes commissioned by and agreed with the asset-owner electricity generation plants to the end of calendar year 2006 business.
Strict commercial disciplines are applied at the asset and to secure approaching 80% of its forecasted calendar year owner-service provider interface, with PowerSystems operating 2007 gas supply needs, inclusive of the Currant Creek and as a contractor to the transmission and distribution business Lake Side projects.
An integrated senior management team within the Infrastructure Division applies the benefits of growing expertise Wholesale Sales and Purchased Electricity in asset ownership, financing and operational service provision In addition to its base of thermal, renewable and hydroelectric to the management of the groups regulated networks generation assets, PacifiCorp uses a mix of long-term, shortbusinesses in both the UK and the US.
term and spot-market purchases to balance its retail load and wholesale obligations.
PacifiCorp enters into wholesale Transmission and Distribution purchase and sale transactions to provide hedges against ScottishPower owns a substantial UK electricity transmission periods of variable generation or variable retail load.
and distribution network which extends to approaching Generation varies with the level of outages or transmission 112,000 km, with some 65,000 km of underground cables and constraints and retail load varies with the weather, distribution 47,000 km of overhead lines, comprising both the distribution system outages, customer trends and the level of economic system to customers in its two authorised areas and, in activity.
During the year ended 31 March 2005, some 21% of Scotland, its high-voltage transmission system 132 kilovolt PacifiCorps energy requirements were supplied by electricity kV and above, including those parts of the Englandpurchased under shortand long-term arrangements, compared Scotland interconnector which are in its Scottish authorised with some 22% for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Table 8 page 35 shows key information with respect to wholesale transactions are integral to its retail business, the divisions transmission and distribution services in 2004 05 providing for a balanced and economically hedged position which were operated under licences issued by the Gas and and enhancing the efficient use of its generating capacity over Electricity Markets Authority the Authority and held by the the long term.
PacifiCorps transmission system is available for transmission and distribution businesses, which were entitled common use consistent with open access regulatory to charge for the use of the systems on terms approved by the requirements and connects with market hubs in the Pacific Authority under various price control formulae.
From 1 April Northwest to provide access to what is normally low-cost 2005, operation but not ownership of the ScottishPower hydroelectric generation and also to the southwestern US, transmission system passed to a single, Great Britain-wide which provides access to normally higher-cost fossil-fuel system operator.
This development is described further on generation.
Under the requirements of the Public Utility Regulatory The management focus of the transmission and distribution Policies Act of 1978, PacifiCorp purchases the output of business is to outperform allowed regulatory returns from the 15 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Business Review Description of Business provision of efficient, coordinated and economical networks that are open to licensed users on a non-discriminatory basis 4 UK Division in order to facilitate competition in generation and supply and operated to approved standards of safety and reliability.
The UK Division operates in gas and electricity markets which The distribution business price controls for the five years from became fully competitive with the ending of residual price 1 April 2005 and the transmission price controls for the two controls on 31 March 2002: although Ofgem continues to years from 1 April 2005 were agreed with the Office of Gas enforce licence conditions and regulate quality of service.
The and Electricity Markets Ofgem in December 2004 and division comprises five wholly-owned subsidiaries: present challenges for the division but also opportunities to ScottishPower Generation Limited owns and operates the enhance returns through a revised package of performancegroups power stations and other generation assets in the British incentive measures.
Ofgem has also agreed that the division Isles and holds the groups generation licence: ScottishPower can move ahead with the first phase of investments in network Energy Management Limited is responsible for commercial development to support the UK Governments planned running of the power stations including scheduling and fuel expansion of renewable generation.
purchasing, for managing retail economics and pricing, and for The income derived from the distribution business is managing commodity risk through buying and selling wholesale dependent on the demand for electricity by customers in the energy via ScottishPower Energy Management Agency authorised areas.
Demand for electricity is affected by such Limited: ScottishPower Energy Retail Limited is the gas and factors as growth and movements in population, social trends, electricity supply company and holder of the groups supply economic and business growth or decline, changes in the mix licences, managing pricing, selling, billing and receipting for gas of energy sources used by customers, weather conditions and and electricity supply to both business and domestic customers energy efficiency measures.
Tables 9 and 10 page 35 set out and dealing with enquiries arising in the course of this business: the demand in gigawatt hours GWh by customer type and SP Dataserve Limited is the data management and metering within the broadly stable levels of electricity transported over company, managing the data processes that underpin customer the distribution systems in the ScottishPower and Manweb registration through to billing and settlement.
home areas during the five most recent financial years.
The divisional management team oversees activities across the energy value chain, maximising value from a diverse Asset Management generation portfolio through to a national customer base of over Within the PowerSystems business unit, the focus continues to 5.1 million, via an integrated commercial and energy be on cost-effectiveness and service quality improvement.
Its management activity that acts to balance and hedge energy principal business activities involve the construction and needs.
In 2004 05, wholesale energy prices were high by refurbishment of the ScottishPower transmission and historic standards although, in light of the emphasis on a distribution systems, their maintenance and related fault repair.
market-based framework for energy policy set out by the UK PowerSystems acts as the major service provider to the Government in February 2003, it seems likely that prices will ScottishPower distribution businesses and as the primary tend to increase further towards the long run marginal cost of customer contact agent for network-related matters.
gas-fired generation, augmented by the developing impact of PowerSystems continues to focus strongly on the efficient carbon trading.
As an active market participant, the division delivery of these services under contract.
The regulatory engages fully in regulatory and contractual debate and in the framework provides financial incentives to improve network consultation processes following the UK Governments review performance and customer satisfaction.
PowerSystems is of energy policy.
In the meantime, the division aims to leverage focused on maximising the financial benefit to be obtained from the benefits of its flexible generation asset base and commercial these incentives over the course of the recently renewed price operations to deliver sustained earnings through improved control period.
business processes and customer service and to develop its Some 25% of the divisions investment programme is position in renewable generation and other aspects of the devoted to organic growth areas such as new customer emerging market for environmental instruments.
PowerSystems has continued to maintain a joint venture with Alfred McAlpine Principal Business Activities Utility Services Limited, called Core Utility Solutions Limited, The UK Division operates ScottishPowers generation assets in to take advantage of the opportunities presented by the the British Isles, manages the companys exposure to the UK requirement for competitive provision of connections to wholesale electricity and gas markets and is responsible for distribution networks.
energy supply, the sales and marketing of electricity and gas to customers throughout Great Britain, together with the associated customer registration, billing and receipting processes and handling enquiries in respect of these services.
16 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Power Plant Portfolio, Fuel Strategy and Generation Sales generally set over the long-term, whereas wholesale contracts The UK Division operates some 6,200 MW of generating have varying terms and short-term and spot prices vary capacity, see Table 7 page 35 comprising coal, gas, markedly by time of day, week and year.
Through its activities hydroelectric and wind power generation assets, giving the in the electricity, gas and coal markets, ScottishPowers energy division a particularly flexible portfolio.
Acquisition of an management business seeks to secure competitive advantage additional 1,000 MW of thermal generation capacity took place for the UK Division through hedging and optimising its during 2004 05 at prices below the groups view of new-build position across the energy value chain, from fuel procurement cost.
The 2003 restatement of the public policy emphasis on and plant despatch through to retail pricing, continuously renewable generation, and the extension to 2015 of the evaluating and managing risk exposure.
This process is Renewables Obligation targets, provide the context for the described further in the Energy Price and Volume Risk continued expansion of the windfarm business.
At 31 March Management section on page 76.
2005, the UK Division had operational windfarms totalling 158 ScottishPowers Hatfield Moors gas storage site enhances MW, 142 MW under construction, planning applications for a the flexibility of the divisions energy management position, further 650 MW and environmental assessments begun on both in meeting peak demands of supply customers and around 550 MW of further potential sites to ensure that the responding to the volatility of gas prices between midweek and company target of 10% of supply from renewables by 2010 is weekends.
In addition, the bulk gas contracts allow the gas to met.
be sold out or used in the divisions power stations, giving yet ScottishPowers fuel purchasing strategy is based upon the more flexibility.
Plans for a further 6 billion cubic feet BCF objective of achieving competitive fuel prices while balancing gas storage facility at Byley, Cheshire have been given planning the need for security and flexibility of supply.
components of the fuel portfolio are coal and gas, both fuels being sourced through a combination of long-term contracts Energy Supply and shorter-term trading.
The division has three long-term Since September 1998 when, under the provisions of the contracts with terms of greater than five years for supply from Electricity Act, competition was extended to residential major gas fields.
The manner in which the division builds electricity customers, a strategic focus of the ScottishPower protection against fluctuating fuel prices is described further in energy supply business has been the defence of its core the Energy Price and Volume Risk Management section on markets, residential and small business customers in the page 76.
ScottishPower and Manweb home areas, whilst seeking Generation plant is despatched economically and output is profitable additional business outside these historical regional managed to maximise value, including optimising the position boundaries.
Retention of home area residential customers in the balancing market.
In 2004 05, some 18 terawatt hours stands at 61% whilst innovative product offerings, targeted TWh were despatched, both to contribute towards the sales efforts and wide-ranging sales channels including approximately 35 TWh of retail and wholesale demand strategic marketing alliances such as the partnership with provided by the division and to maintain export volumes Sainsburys, a number of other affinity deals across a wide through the interconnectors to England & Wales and to range of market sectors and the use of e-commerce channels Northern Ireland.
have helped develop a Britain-wide customer base which now stands at over 5.1 million energy accounts.
The business Energy Management and Commercial Arrangements improvement programme introduced in 2001 continues to In addition to scheduling its own generation capacity and drive improvements across the retail supply business and has managing the long-term bulk gas contracts, the UK Division, helped to deliver increased direct debit penetration and through its energy management operation, uses mediumand reduced customer churn rates in addition to cost benefits in short-term contractual arrangements to complete its energy areas such as billing, debt and customer registration business balancing of the whole portfolio of assets and customers.
involves both purchases and sales of electricity and gas, including selling in Scotland and, through the interconnectors, Metering and Data Management to England & Wales and to Northern Ireland.
A Great BritainIn the competitive energy market SP Dataserve Limited wide wholesale electricity market was introduced on 1 April Dataserve operates end-to-end process and data 2005 through the British Electricity Trading and Transmission management in order to maximise efficiencies in the provision Arrangements BETTA.
BETTA is expected to have only a and control of registration and metering data for ScottishPower modest impact on end-user prices but provides a wider and other agency arrangements.
Data management covers the opportunity for the sale of the groups generation output and establishment of new customers, maintenance of existing the deployment of its proven skills in providing market customers and accuracy of energy settlement.
End-user electricity and gas prices are manage gas and electricity customers, ScottishPower Energy 17 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Business Review Description of Business Retail Ltd has continued to contribute to improvements in billing a project pipeline of more than 500 MW in the northeast US, performance through the management of its metering agents, planned to be operational between 2005 and 2010.
In April who are responsible for the provision of much of the data.
2005, PPM Energy announced that, with its joint venture partner, Zilkha Renewable Energy of Houston, it is to build and own the 198 MW Maple Ridge Windfarm in New York.
On 23 May 2005, PPM Energy also announced plans for a 150 MW windfarm in northern California, to be called the Shiloh PPM Energy 5 windfarm.
When projects previously announced come on-line PPM Energy, the groups competitive US energy business, is a in 2005 the 75 MW Klondike II windfarm in Oregon, the 100 fast-growing energy provider, with operating assets in ten US MW Trimont windfarm in Minnesota, the 150 MW Elk River states and in Canada.
Its diverse portfolio, focus on wind power windfarm in Kansas, the 150 MW Shiloh windfarm in and moderate risk approach all position PPM Energy for California and 50% of the 198 MW joint venture Maple Ridge expected earnings growth.
PPM Energy commenced substantive windfarm in upstate New York, PPM Energy will have operations in 2001 and is growing through a strategic focus on approximately 1,405 MW of wind power under its ownership clean energy: concentrating on renewable power, natural gas or control.
PPM Energy remains on target to deliver its goal of storage and hub services and gas-fired generation.
Principal Business Activities Gas Storage and Hub Services PPM Energys principal assets are thermal and renewable PPM Energys two major gas storage facilities are in Alberta, generation resources and natural gas storage facilities.
PPM Canada and in Katy, Texas.
Each is connected into substantial Energy seeks to create value by securing quality assets at pipeline networks serving well-diversified customer bases strategic locations and by locking in value through long-term under firm, longand short-term contract arrangements.
In contracts with creditworthy customers.
Integration of plant addition to the 46 BCF of gas storage capacity under the operations, contract dispatch and energy management add groups ownership, PPM Energy increased its available gas additional value.
The optimisation benefits come from displacing storage capacity by 30 BCF through contracting for capacity in plant operations with low-priced electricity purchases, and third-party storage facilities in western Canada, Texas and selling the displaced gas or placing it in storage, as well as using California.
PPM Energy also has begun development of a 9.5 transmission and contract delivery flexibility to manage BCF high-deliverability salt cavern gas storage project in west locational price differences in both gas and electricity.
PPM Texas and acquired the 4.5 BCF Grama Ridge gas storage Energy aims to leverage the benefits of its flexible asset base and facility in New Mexico.
contracts to extract value across the gas and electricity sectors.
Power Production and Wholesale Sales PPM Energy has more than 1,600 MW of operating assets Group Employees 6 currently under its ownership or control and, of that total, PPM Energy has full economic interest in 1,368 MW, see Table US Businesses PHI and its subsidiaries had 6,934 employees at 6 page 34.
PPM Energy balances its supply and sales, selling 31 March 2005, of which PacifiCorp and its subsidiaries had a substantial amount of its supply forward under long-term 6,656 and PPM Energy and its subsidiaries 278.
In its electricity business, PPM Energy serves a wide 57% of the employees of PacifiCorp and its mining subsidiaries variety of wholesale energy customers including municipal are covered by union contracts, principally with the International agencies, public utility districts and investor-owned utilities.
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the Utility Workers Union of These customers are primarily located in wholesale energy America, the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers and the markets served by the 1.8 million square mile Western United Mine Workers of America.
In the companys judgement, Electricity Coordinating Council service territories in the employee relations in the US businesses are satisfactory.
western US and the Mid-Continent Area Power Pool service territories in the upper midwest US, although PPM Energys UK Businesses ScottishPower and its UK subsidiaries had operations are now being extended into the northeastern US.
Of these, 3,541 were employed in the Infrastructure Division and 5,667 in the UK Wind Power Division.
Approximately 56% of employees in the UK are PPM Energy is a leading provider of wind energy in the US.
In union members, and 83% are covered by collective bargaining December 2004, PPM Energy acquired the wind energy arrangements.
In the companys judgement, employee relations developer, Atlantic Renewable Energy Corporation now in the UK businesses are satisfactory.
known as PPM Atlantic Renewable.
This brings into the group 18 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Human Resources Strategy The groups human resources HR strategy was approved by Group Environmental Policy 7 the Board in July 2002 and aims to ensure that the groups businesses achieve superior results through the high ScottishPower recognises the need to embrace a wider role in performance of their employees.
In 2004 05, in support of this society and to engage fully with shareholders, employees, group HR strategy, a combined UK and US HR strategy has communities, customers, regulators, legislators and other been developed to take account of the implications of the group opinion formers.
It aims to do this transparently, through an HR strategy.
international framework, to ensure that key principles are The management of health and safety in ScottishPower is translated into action.
This framework comprises overall based on a Group Health & Safety Framework introduced in international visionary goals: and specific goals for the US and January 2004 and overseen by the Group Health & Safety UK.
Performance towards meeting these goals is tracked Executive Committee, composed of US and UK members who through carefully chosen Key Performance Indicators, closely meet on a quarterly basis.
There are 12 key Health & Safety related to business unit objectives.
Hence, it must strive to Standards that are used to provide regular assurance to the achieve a balance between various needs including securing Board, to the Executive Team and to employees that health and energy supply now and into the future, keeping energy safety is managed effectively and in line with stated policy.
affordable and minimising its impact on the environment.
Challenging targets are set each year for both lost time accident Public policy frameworks in the US and UK have common rates and leading indicator metrics, covering progress against elements, particularly in using market instruments for air the Group Health & Safety Standards and building on the quality regulation and supporting renewables and energy baseline assessments carried out in 2003 04. efficiency measures.
The group continues to develop specific policies to respond to these regulatory challenges, aiming to Employee Consultation grow its business sustainably in new energy markets, to invest An annual survey is conducted across all businesses to provide in renewables and clean-coal technology and to ensure that a measure of employees perception of the companys direction customers benefit from innovations in energy efficiency.
It also and their sense of empowerment, value, training and aims to manage existing coal-fired assets responsibly, applying development and of manager communication.
Survey results appropriate abatement technologies to reduce its are shared with all employees, reviewed by the Executive Team environmental footprint whilst supporting security of supply and used in each business to set targets and action plans for and affordability of power for its customers.
The lines of the following year.
In addition, individual businesses use accountability for environmental policy are focused through surveys and other tools to understand the issues that fall within the policy making Energy and Environment Committee, their specific areas of responsibility and regular consultation chaired by the Chief Executive and with direct reporting lines takes place using a variety of means, including monthly team to ScottishPowers Executive Team.
meetings, team managers conferences, business unit road Further details of group environmental policy and shows, safety committees, presentations and employee performance can be found in the ScottishPower magazines.
The group believes that an important element of a Environmental and Social Impact Report and the positive working experience is stable employee and industrial Environmental Performance Report.
Both are available on relations, it recognises the legitimacy of trade union the ScottishPower website.
involvement and has formal agreements in place to foster open, two-way communication and consultation.
Positive relationships and ongoing liaison with employees and their representatives are seen as contributing significantly to Community Impact 8 achieving the performance objectives of the businesses.
In order to encourage comparability, the group uses the Further details of group workplace policy and performance London Benchmarking Group LBG model to evaluate its can be found in the ScottishPower Environmental and Social community support activity across the group.
The LBG model Impact Report and the Workplace Performance Report.
Both is a standard for community reporting currently adopted by 99 are available on the ScottishPower website.
The company also leading UK companies.
It endeavours to provide consistency operates a number of all-employee share plans see page 98. and comparability across companies and to account for the total impact on communities, rather than charitable contributions alone.
ScottishPowers use of the model is reviewed each year by the LBG to help ensure the evaluation principles are correctly and consistently applied.
In 2003, the LBG Model was expanded to include a 19 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Business Review Description of Business category for mandatory contributions which incorporates public lands, roads and streets and, by easement or licence, Community contributions or activities undertaken as a result upon the lands of other third parties.
Table 3 page 34 sets out of the requirements of law, regulation or contract to account further information regarding the PacifiCorp networks.
for the overall impact a company and its operations has on PacifiCorps coal reserves are described in Table 2 page communities.
These are reported separately from voluntary 33.
Most are held pursuant to leases from the federal contributions.
ScottishPower is reviewing changes to the government through the Bureau of Land Management and model, has ensured all mandatory or regulated spend is from certain states and private parties.
The leases generally excluded from its currently reported community support have multi-year terms that may be renewed or extended and contributions, and has begun tracking to enable it to report the require payment of rentals and royalties.
In addition, federal full community impact of its business activities in future years.
and state regulations require that comprehensive During 2004 05, ScottishPower companies contributed environmental protection and reclamation standards be met 4.1 million in community support activity, of which 1.5 during the course of mining operations and upon completion million was contributed to registered charitable organisations.
The total incorporated 557,000 categorised by the LBG model PPM Energy has more than 1,600 MW of operating assets as charitable gifts, 2.6 million of community support activity currently under its ownership or control and, of that, PPM categorised as community investment and 1.0 million Energy has full economic interest in 1,368 MW, see Table 6 categorised as commercial initiatives in the community given in page 34.
The majority of PPM Energys capacity 606 MW of cash, through staff time and in-kind donations by the wind power contracted for a period of 25 years and 237 MW of companys US and UK operations.
An additional 1.2 million thermal power contracted for a period of 30 years comes from of charitable support was made through the PacifiCorp long-term agreements while 525 MW comes from outright Foundation for Learning, which is fully endowed by ownership of six wind plants and two thermal plants.
Energys windfarms are on land owned or leased for 25 years or Further details of group community engagement policy and more.
PPM Energy also manages ScottishPower-owned gas performance are summarised in the ScottishPower storage facilities in Alberta, Canada and owns facilities in Texas Environmental and Social Impact Report and the Community and New Mexico, representing an overall total of 50.5 BCF of Performance Report.
Both are available on the ScottishPower gas storage capacity.
UK Businesses The UK properties consist of generating stations, transmission and distribution facilities and certain non-operational properties in which the company holds Description of the freehold or leasehold interests.
Companys Property 9 US Businesses The US properties consist primarily of ScottishPower owns seven power stations in Scotland five generating facilities, electricity transmission and distribution of which are operational and four in England.
It also owns facilities, coal mines, gas storage facilities and a number of three windfarms in Northern Ireland, five in Scotland, and one office facilities.
Substantially all of PacifiCorps electricity in the Republic of Ireland.
In addition, the company has joint property is subject to the lien of PacifiCorps Mortgage and venture interests in three windfarms, two of which are in Deed of Trust.
All generation plant is owned by PacifiCorp owns or has an interest in 51 hydroelectric the group, with the exception of the non-operational Methil generating plants.
These have an aggregate plant net capability power station, which is held on a ground lease that expires in of 1,155 MW.
It owns or has interests in 16 thermal electric 2012, and the windfarms which are generally held on ground generating plants with an aggregate plant net capability of leases of at least 25 years duration.
PacifiCorp jointly owns one wind power generating further details of operational generation assets.
plant with plant net capability of 33 MW.
Table 1 page 33 At 31 March 2005, the UK transmission facilities included sets out key aspects of PacifiCorps existing generating approximately 4,000 circuit km of overhead lines and facilities.
These generating facilities are interconnected through underground cable operated at 400 kV, 275 kV and 132 kV.
In PacifiCorps own transmission lines or by contract through the addition, the distribution facilities included approximately lines of others.
Substantially all of PacifiCorps generating 108,000 circuit km of overhead lines and underground cable at facilities and reservoirs are managed on a coordinated basis to voltages operating from 33 kV to 0.23 kV.
The group holds obtain maximum load carrying capability and efficiency and to either permanent rights or wayleaves which entitle it to run manage river systems and preserve fish stocks.
Portions of these lines and cables through private land.
See Table 8 page PacifiCorps almost 74,000 miles of transmission and 35 for further details.
distribution networks are located, by franchise or permit, upon 20 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Texas are subject to regulation by the FERC and the Texas Description of Legislative Railroad Commission and those in Canada are subject to 10 and Regulatory Background regulation by the Alberta Energy and Utilities Board.
As a public limited company plc, Scottish Power plc is subject to the UK Companies Acts and is also registered as a FERC Issues holding company under the US Public Utility Holding California Refund Case Company Act of 1935, as amended, 1935 Act which is PacifiCorp is one of a number of parties to a FERC administered by the United States Securities and Exchange investigation of potential refunds for energy transactions in Commission SEC.
Hence, Scottish Power plc, PacifiCorp California during past periods of high-energy prices.
In and other subsidiaries are subject to regulation unless specific 2001 02, it established a provision of $17.7 million for these subsidiaries or transactions are otherwise exempt by SEC rules potential refunds and has subsequently fully provided in the or orders.
SPUK and its subsidiaries are generally exempt from amount of $5 million for defaults in receivables from certain regulation under the 1935 Act because SPUK is a foreign counterparties.
PacifiCorps ultimate exposure to refunds is utility company as defined in the 1935 Act.
dependent upon any final order issued by the FERC in this ScottishPowers UK operations are subject to such proceeding.
European Union EU Directives as the UK Government brings into effect, specifically, the EU energy liberalisation FERC Show-Cause Orders directives and EU prohibitions on anti-competitive agreements In August 2003, PacifiCorp and the FERC staff reached a and the abuse of a dominant position implemented through resolution on the FERC order to show why various parties the Competition Act 1998, which came into effect from 1 behaviour during the California energy crisis did not constitute March 2000 and also to the provisions of the Electricity Act manipulation of the wholesale electricity market.
Under the 1989 Electricity Act as amended by the Utilities Act 2000 terms of the settlement agreement, PacifiCorp denied liability Utilities Act and other legislation including the Energy Act and agreed to pay a nominal amount of $67,745 in exchange for 2004 Energy Act.
The Utilities Act introduced a legal complete and total resolution of the issues raised relating to it framework for energy company licences based on standard, in the FERCs show-cause order.
The FERC issued its final UK-wide conditions and, taken together with requirements of order approving the settlement in March 2004.
Several market the Department of Trade and Industry DTI and licence participants have requested a rehearing of the FERCs approval changes introduced by the Regulators, defines the regulatory and a decision on the rehearing request is pending.
framework within which SPUK and its subsidiaries must operate.
Northwest Refund Case A summary of the more specific legislative and regulatory In June 2003, the FERC terminated its proceeding in this case, background to the operations of the groups businesses is set concluding that ordering refunds would not be an appropriate out below.
resolution of the issues relating to wholesale spot-market bilateral sales in the Pacific Northwest between 25 December 2000 and 20 June 2001.
In November 2003, the FERC issued its final order denying a requested rehearing.
Several market 11 US Business Regulation participants have filed petitions in the court of appeals for PacifiCorp is subject to the jurisdiction of the public utility review of the FERCs final order but any decision from the regulatory authorities in each of the states in which it conducts court of appeals is not expected to have a material impact on retail electricity operations.
These authorities regulate various the groups consolidated results or financial position.
matters including prices, services, accounting, the allocation of costs by state, issuance of securities and other matters.
Federal Power Act Section 206 Case PacifiCorp is a licensee and a public utility as those terms In November 2003, the FERC also issued its final order are used in the Federal Power Act FPA and is, therefore, denying a rehearing of PacifiCorps request for recovery of subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory excessive prices charged under certain wholesale electricity Commission FERC as to accounting policies and practices, purchases scheduled for delivery during summer 2002. certain prices and other matters.
PacifiCorps appeal for review of the FERCs final order is Because PPM Energy does not conduct retail electricity before the US Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
Court operations, it is not subject to the same state public utility briefs from interested parties were filed in March 2005. commission regulation as PacifiCorp.
However, certain of its wholesale activities are regulated by the FERC and the state FERC Market Power Analysis commissions impose certain limitations on affiliate PacifiCorp and PPM Energy are authorised by the FERC to transactions.
In addition, PPM Energy's gas storage activities in charge market-based rates for sales of wholesale energy and 21 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background capacity.
Under the FERCs current policy, market participants Regional Transmission Arrangements must demonstrate that they do not possess market power and PacifiCorp, in conjunction with nine other utilities, has are required to submit a market power analysis every three established a non-profit corporation, known as Grid West.
The analysis must be applied to all affiliated entities on a and when fully implemented, it would serve as an independent combined, or aggregate, basis thus PacifiCorp and PPM Energy transmission provider for the Grid West region and have the must submit a market analysis jointly.
In February 2005, operational authority needed to direct bulk wholesale PacifiCorp and PPM Energy submitted their joint triennial electricity transfers over a majority of the 60,000 miles of market power analysis to the FERC.
In May 2005, the FERC transmission lines owned by its members.
Grid West would instituted a proceeding to determine whether PacifiCorp and have operational control but PacifiCorp would continue to PPM Energy may continue to charge market-based rates for own its transmission assets.
Creation of Grid West is in sales of wholesale energy and capacity.
PacifiCorp and PPM response to the FERC's Order 2000 and is subject to regulatory Energy are in the process of responding to the FERCs request approvals from the FERC and state regulatory commissions.
In that additional information and analysis be submitted within December 2004, the filing utilities, in collaboration with 60 days in an attempt to rebut the presumption that PacifiCorp regional stakeholders, adopted new bylaws for Grid Wests and PPM Energy have generation market power.
interim board, on which PacifiCorp has a representative.
The parties are now engaged in the continuing development of the regional proposal together with work on inter-regional issues in conjunction with other regional transmission operators.
12 Regulation of PacifiCorp Relicensing of Hydroelectric Projects Multi-State Process MSP PacifiCorp's hydroelectric portfolio consists of 51 plants with PacifiCorp initiated a collaborative process with stakeholders a plant net capability of 1,155 MW, about 15% of PacifiCorp's in five of the six states it serves, aiming to develop and total generating capacity.
The majority of the hydroelectric implement a cost allocation methodology that would achieve generating portfolio is operated under licences from the a more permanent consensus on each states responsibility for FERC, granted for periods of 30 to 50 years.
There is a the costs of, and entitlement to the benefits of, PacifiCorps complex regulatory process to apply for licence renewal existing assets.
This was intended to enable PacifiCorp to which begins five and a half years before the expiration of an recover the full cost of future investments and provide states existing licence and involves a number of federal and state with the ability independently to implement state energy agencies, Native American tribes and other stakeholders.
Between April 2002 and December 2003, Some state and federal agencies have mandatory authority to extensive discussions between PacifiCorp and key parties require certain terms and conditions to be included in the within its service areas led to the development of a FERC licence.
Often existing licences expire prior to the Protocol cost allocation methodology, which was filed in FERCs issuing of a new licence.
In these cases, the FERC Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Idaho and Washington.
Following has historically issued annual operating licences so that the discussions with all parties, this proposal was refined and reproject can continue to operate while alternatives are submitted to each of the state commissions as the Revised evaluated: the FERC is continuing this practice.
Final ratification of the Revised Protocol occurred In order to facilitate the licensing process, PacifiCorp may in March 2005 with each of the state commissions in Utah, agree to early implementation of expected licence conditions, Oregon, Wyoming and Idaho issuing orders approving and or settlement terms, if a settlement has been reached with accepting the use of the Revised Protocol cost allocation licensing stakeholders.
The cost of these measures, together methodology for future rate setting in each of those states.
In with the costs for hydroelectric relicensing, are expected to be accordance with this agreement, ongoing rate case filings in included in rates and, as such, not to have a material adverse Oregon and Idaho have been based on the Revised Protocol impact on the group's consolidated results of operations.
and the recent Utah settlement was based on Revised Relicensing and decommissioning of individual hydroelectric Protocol.
In Washington, the Washington Utilities and installations are an ongoing part of the PacifiCorp business Transportation Commission WUTC issued its formal order and, in 2004 05, new licences were issued for the Bear River approving and adopting the Washington general rate case and Big Fork projects some 89 MW whilst settlements were settlement, accepting the Revised Protocol for reporting agreed for the removal of the American Fork, Condit and purposes and establishing a process for ongoing discussions Powerdale projects some 17 MW.
for a permanent allocation methodology during 2005 06.
The Revised Protocol will be filed in the state of California with Regulatory Established Returns the next general rate case.
The regulatory commissions in the various states where PacifiCorp operates approve levels of cost recovery for debt, 22 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 preferred equity and common equity which result in an continue to select optimal solutions from a mix of renewable, allowed return on rate base costs, including an allowed return thermal, market purchase and demand side management on equity ROE which represents the return on shareholder choices, guiding specific build or buy decisions made investment.
Determination of these returns, and the dependent on permitting, siting, emissions, cost recovery and composition of the investment costs included in the rate base, economic conditions.
Dockets have been established in Utah, is made by the commissions through general rate cases.
Rates Oregon, Idaho and Washington to determine acknowledgment are then set to allow PacifiCorp the opportunity, with no of the plan under which costs incurred by PacifiCorp to guarantees, to meet its expenses, recover its investments and provide service to its customers are expected to be included as earn the allowed ROE for its shareholders.
PacifiCorp pursues allowable costs for ratemaking purposes.
However, under the a regulatory programme in all states, with the objective of US regulatory compact, PacifiCorp must demonstrate to keeping rates closely aligned to ongoing costs.
In recently regulators that its incurred costs are both reasonable and completed general rate cases, base rates in Utah increased by necessary to the provision of safe, adequate, reliable and $65.0 million annually starting in April 2004, resulting in an efficient electricity utility services to its retail customers and average price increase of 7.0% and, in February 2005, the that its decisions were made in a prudent manner.
UPSC approved a stipulation settling PacifiCorp's general rate As part of the 2004 IRP process, PacifiCorp has identified a case filed in August 2004 under which base rates in Utah potential future difference between retail load obligations and increased by $51.0 million annually starting in March 2005, available resources which it plans to meet through a resulting in an average price increase of 4.7% and an allowed combination of investment in new generation and load control return on equity of 10.5%.
In September 2004, the Wyoming programmes.
Major IRP action items are formed into a series Public Service Commission WPSC approved a stipulation of separate RFPs, each of which focuses on a specific category for a stand-alone pass-on of increased net wholesale purchased of requirement, including energy conservation programmes electricity costs.
This stipulation was effective from 15 September 450 average MW and the 1,400 MW of economic renewable 2004 and resulted in an overall price increase of $9.25 million resources that were first identified in the 2003 IRP.
In October 2004, the WUTC issued an order US Congress renewed the federal Production Tax Credit adopting a multi-party settlement agreement with limited PTC for renewable energy in late 2004, PacifiCorp has conditions.
A subsequent supplemental order was issued in concentrated its efforts on renewable energy generation that November 2004, resulting in a total rate increase of $15.5 could come on-line by the end of 2005, when the PTC expires million annually, or 7.8%, effective from 16 November 2004. pending further extensions.
Projects that can incorporate the PacifiCorp continues to refine its internal procedures and PTCs value benefit by 1.8 cents per kWh over the first 10 years to work with the commissions to ensure that all prudently of a plants operation.
At 31 March 2005, PacifiCorp was incurred costs are reflected in its rates.
General rate negotiating with top bidders for 2005 projects, with plans adjustments reflecting changes in the regulated cost base subsequently to move on to 2006 projects.
granted during 2004 05 have an annualised value of To date, PacifiCorp has entered into a 64.5 MW power approximately $75 million.
Further rounds of rate cases are in purchase agreement, to take effect prior to calendar 2006, for progress, under consideration or in development in most of the the output of a windfarm located in southeastern Idaho.
In this context, PacifiCorp has PacifiCorp is continuing to negotiate with other counterparties proposed or initiated discussion of power cost adjustment to increase its use, storage and delivery of renewable energy mechanisms designed to be longer-term, ongoing mechanisms beyond the approximately 1,000,000 MWh of 2004 05.
Based that pass through to customers a portion of excess power costs, on data compiled by the US Department of Energy, PacifiCorp or return to customers a portion of over-collected power costs.
ranks second nationwide in customer participation and third in These would enable power costs included within rates to be MWh sales in voluntary renewable energy programmes.
The more closely aligned with PacifiCorps actual costs and assist in benefits of renewable energy include low to no emissions and reducing earnings volatility.
As with any general rate case, the no fossil fuel requirements but wind and solar generation are outcome of these discussions and requests is uncertain.
intermittent, so complementary thermal or hydroelectric resources are important to integrate renewable resources into Future Generation, Renewable Energy and Conservation the electricity system.
As required by state regulators, PacifiCorp uses its IRP to In addition to the supply-side RFPs, in June 2003 provide a framework for prudent future actions required to PacifiCorp issued a separate RFP requesting an additional 100 help ensure that it continues to provide reliable and costMW or more of conservation to be obtained over the next 10 effective electricity services to its customers.
The IRP process years and load control proposals specifically addressing peak identifies PacifiCorp's anticipated future resource mix in a load.
Two conservation programmes and one load control coordinated dialogue with the stakeholders in each of the six programme were selected.
Tariffs for each programme have states in which PacifiCorp operates.
It allows PacifiCorp to been filed with the UPSC.
23 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background Competition and Deregulation Oregon During 2004 05, PacifiCorp continued to operate its electricity In May 2004, the Oregon Court of Appeals heard oral distribution and retail business under state regulation, which arguments concerning appeals made against the Marion generally prohibits retail competition.
However, as a result of County, Oregon circuit court affirmation of a 2002 Oregon Direct Access mandated by Oregons Senate Bill 1149, a group Public Utility Commission OPUC order which authorised of customers having a total average load of approximately 18 PacifiCorps recovery of $131.0 million of excess net power MW has chosen service from suppliers other than PacifiCorp.
costs, plus carrying charges, at a rate of $45.6 million annually.
A group of customers having a total average load of In October 2004, the Oregon Court of Appeals affirmed the approximately 2 MW has taken service from PacifiCorp at the circuit court decision.
The deadline for further appeals has now Daily Market Pricing Option, which links the energy charge on passed.
At 31 March 2005, approximately $13.7 million a customers bill to a representative market price index.
These remained to be collected by the authorised surcharge.
changes will not have a material effect on PacifiCorp's In November 2004, PacifiCorp filed a general rate case earnings.
In addition to Oregons Direct Access programme, with the OPUC related to increases in operating costs, others in PacifiCorp's service territories are seeking choice of including fuel, purchased power, and pension and healthcare suppliers, options to build their own generation or cocosts.
PacifiCorp is seeking an increase of $102.0 million generation plants, or the use of substitute energy sources such annually, or 12.5%.
Any increase would take effect in as natural gas.
If these other customers gain the right to receive September 2005.
Settlement conferences were held in April electricity from alternative suppliers, they will make their 2005 and hearings are scheduled for July 2005.
PacifiCorp has energy purchasing decision based upon many factors, including also made filings designed to provide for discussion regarding price, service and system reliability.
Availability and price of the development of a power cost adjustment mechanism.
alternative energy sources and the general demand for electricity also influence competition.
PacifiCorp does not Wyoming expect significant retail competition in the near future.
In April 2004, PacifiCorp filed a complaint with the federal district court in Wyoming challenging the the March 2003 decision of the WPSC to deny recovery of Hunter No.
1 A summary of the outcomes and the most significant further replacement power costs and deferred excess net power costs regulatory and legislative developments in the states concerned is on the grounds that the decision violates federal law by set out below.
The summary below does not include the possible denying PacifiCorp recovery in retail rates of its wholesale effect of the proposed sale of ScottishPowers indirect interest in electricity and transmission costs incurred to serve Wyoming PacifiCorp to MidAmerican.
In each state, the sale of PacifiCorp customers.
The lawsuit seeks an injunction requiring the will require regulatory notification and or approval.
Although WPSC to pass through PacifiCorps wholesale electricity and PacifiCorp intends to pursue general rate increase requests as transmission costs in retail rates.
In May 2004, the WPSC filed currently planned, management is unable to predict the impact, a motion to dismiss the complaint: the motion to dismiss was if any, of the proposed sale and the process of obtaining such denied in November 2004.
In January 2005, the WPSC approvals, on the pending matters described below.
appealed the courts ruling on the motions to dismiss and requested a stay of the underlying litigation.
In February 2005, Utah the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals denied the WPSC In August 2004, PacifiCorp filed a general rate case request interlocutory appeal of the courts ruling: this decision is with the UPSC related to operating cost increases and recovery subject to a currently active appeal.
of investments that support Utahs growing demand and need In October 2004, the WPSC approved a stipulation filed by for enhanced network reliability.
In October 2004, the UPSC PacifiCorp, Powder River Energy Corporation and Kennecott approved the use of a forward-looking test year in this general Energy Company to resolve an attempt by Powder River rate case, the year 2005 06, and in February 2005 approved a Energy Corporation and Kennecott Energy Company to allow stipulation settling the general rate case.
Under the stipulation, Kennecott Energy Company to choose its electricity service base rates in Utah increased by $51.0 million annually starting provider for the Antelope Coal Mine, which is in PacifiCorps in March 2005, resulting in an average price increase of 4.7% service territory and has been served by PacifiCorp for 20 and an allowed return on equity of 10.5%.
The terms of the stipulation include a continued Senate Bill 26 was signed into law in February 2005 and recognition of PacifiCorp's authorised territory through a establishes rules and a mandatory process for the solicitation regulatory recovery fee payment that Kennecott Energy and evaluation of bids to procure significant energy resources.
It Company will make to PacifiCorp.
The regulatory recovery fee also provides PacifiCorp with the opportunity to obtain advance protects other Wyoming customers from any impacts due to approval from the UPSC of a resource decision and an the loss of the mine load.
Powder River Energy Corporation assurance of the recovery of costs associated with the resource.
will be the sole energy provider to the mine.
24 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 In July 2004, PacifiCorp applied to the WPSC for a standRegulation of the Electricity alone pass-on of increased net wholesale purchased electricity 13 and Gas Industries in the UK costs.
Following discussions with various parties, PacifiCorp filed a joint stipulation valuing this request at $9.25 million The UK electricity and gas industries are regulated under the annually, or 2.7%.
This stipulation was heard by the WPSC provisions of the Electricity Act, the Gas Acts, the Utilities Act and approved effective 15 September 2004.
The expedited and the Energy Act 2004.
The Electricity and Gas Acts treatment of this application was recognised in the stipulation provided for the privatisation and restructuring of the with an agreement that PacifiCorp will not file a general rate industries in the late 1980s and the 1990s, including the application until at least September 2005.
Further, the parties introduction of price regulation for electricity transmission and agreed to hold discussions on the development of a commodity distribution and gas transportation: and of competition in cost recovery mechanism and alternative forms of regulation.
electricity generation, gas storage and the supply of both gas and electricity.
The Electricity and Gas Acts established the Washington licensing of industry participants and created regulatory bodies In December 2003, PacifiCorp filed with the WUTC for a for each of the electricity and gas industries.
In 2000, the general rate increase and requested that the WUTC adopt the Utilities Act enabled the electricity and gas regulators to be findings of a prudence review of generating resources acquired merged as the Authority, established new independent since the last Washington general rate case.
In October 2004, consumer councils and provided powers for Government the WUTC issued an order adopting the multi-party settlement Ministers to give statutory guidance on social and agreement with limited conditions and, in November 2004, the environmental issues and to set energy efficiency targets and WUTC issued a supplemental order with revised calculations.
In 2004, the Energy Act provided the As a result, the WUTC authorised an annual increase of $15.5 Secretary of State for Trade and Industry Secretary of State million, or 7.8%, effective 16 November 2004.
On 5 May 2005, with powers to implement Great Britain-wide electricity PacifiCorp filed a general rate case request for approximately trading and transmission arrangements.
$39 million related to increased operating costs and investment The Utilities Act transferred the functions of the previous in new generation.
The rate case also seeks the use of a electricity and gas industry regulators to the Authority and forward-looking test year, implementation of a power cost provided for the appointment of a Chairman and other adjustment mechanism and ratification of the MSP Revised members of the Authority by the Secretary of State.
Chairman of the Authority holds office for renewable periods of five years, and its Chief Executive is also the Chief Executive Idaho of Ofgem which provides administrative support to the In December 2003, PacifiCorp filed with the Idaho Public Authority.
Under the Utilities Act, the principal objective of the Utilities Commission the IPUC to recover Idahos portion Secretary of State and the Authority is to protect the interest of of income tax payments resulting from Internal Revenue customers, wherever appropriate by promoting effective Service audits of prior years.
In April 2004, the IPUC staff held competition.
In carrying out those functions, they are required public input meetings concerning PacifiCorps application.
A to have regard to the need to secure that all reasonable stipulated agreement signed by the parties was filed with the demands for electricity and gas are met: the need to ensure IPUC in May 2004 and was approved by the IPUC in June that licence holders are able to finance their functions: and the 2004.
This allowed recovery of $4.2 million over 16 months interests of individuals who are disabled or chronically sick, of beginning in June 2004 when a power cost recovery surcharge, pensionable age, with low incomes or residing in rural areas.
which began in June 2002, expired.
The Authority exercises, concurrently with the Director In January 2005, PacifiCorp filed a general rate case with General of Fair Trading, certain functions relating to monopoly the IPUC related to continuing investment to serve Idaho load, situations under the Fair Trading Act 1973 and the Enterprise increases in employee-related costs and general inflation Act 2002 and to anti-competitive conduct under the impacts.
PacifiCorp seeks an increase of $15.1 million Competition Act 1980 and the Competition Act 1998.
If approved by the IPUC, new rates would Authority also manages UK compliance with the European take effect 16 September 2005.
On that date, unrelated Community Liberalisation Directive, which is concerned to surcharges currently in effect will expire, so the net effect to introduce competition in generation and supply and noncustomers of this increase would be $11.4 million annually, or discriminatory access to gas transportation and electricity 9.2%, overall.
transmission and distribution across the EU.
The Licensing Regime The Authority is responsible for granting new licences or licence extensions for each of the following separate activities: 25 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background Electricity Generation the production of electricity at power progressively since 1998 through the auction of major storage stations, hydroelectric plants, windfarms and some industrial capacity owned by Transco and the provision of new capacity plants.
Through its wholly-owned subsidiary, ScottishPower by independent operators, including ScottishPower.
Generation Limited, the group is licensed to operate some 6,200 MW of generating capacity and, by contracting in the Gas Shipping gas shippers contract with gas transporters to wholesale market, has access to capacity operated by other have gas transported between the beach terminal and the point licensed generators.
Gas shippers can also access storage facilities.
The group is licensed as a gas shipper.
Electricity Transmission the bulk transfer of electricity across a high-voltage network of overhead lines, underground cables Supply of Gas and Electricity the bulk purchase of gas and and associated equipment typically operating at or above 132 electricity by suppliers and its sale to customers, with the kV.
Through its wholly-owned subsidiary, SP Transmission associated customer service activities, including customer Limited, the group owns the transmission system in central and registration, meter reading, sales and marketing, billing and southern Scotland.
ScottishPowers transmission system is revenue collection.
Large industrial and commercial customers connected to that of Scottish and Southern Energy in the north have been able to choose their energy suppliers for a number of Scotland and is linked to the National Grid in England & of years and the residential market was opened to competition Wales.
It is also linked to the Northern Ireland transmission progressively, commencing in April 1996, with residual system by interconnectors that enable the export and import of controls on residential electricity prices ending in March 2002. electricity between the two systems.
From 1 April 2005, under Any electricity supplier wishing to supply electricity to BETTA, operation, but not ownership, of the groups domestic customers must obtain authorisation from the transmission system was passed to the Great Britain-wide Authority and be subject to additional domestic supply transmission system operator, National Grid Transco plc.
obligations in its licence, including having its codes of practice statements of intent about how the supplier will interact with Electricity Distribution the transfer of electricity from the high customers approved by the Authority.
Broadly comparable voltage transmission system and its delivery to customers, arrangements allow British Gas Trading to supply mains gas to across a network of overhead lines and underground cables any connected customer in competition with licensed gas operating at voltages ranging from 33 kV 132 kV in England suppliers.
Customers may continue to take supplies from the & Wales to 0.23 kV.
The Utilities Act required separate pre-privatisation monopoly supplier for the area or may choose licensing of the 14 regional distribution businesses introduced an alternative licensed supplier.
Once customers have changed under electricity privatisation.
Each Public Electricity a gas or electricity supplier, they are able to change supplier Distributor licensee is required, among other duties, to develop again subject to the contractual terms offered by licensed and maintain an efficient, coordinated and economical system suppliers and approved by the Authority.
Through its wholly of electricity distribution and to offer terms for connection to, owned subsidiary, ScottishPower Energy Retail Limited, the and use of, its distribution system on a non-discriminatory group is licensed as a gas supplier and an electricity supplier.
basis, in order to ensure competition in the supply and generation of electricity.
Through its wholly-owned Modification of Licences subsidiaries, SP Distribution Limited and SP Manweb plc, the The Authority is responsible for monitoring compliance with group is licensed to distribute electricity within its two the conditions of licences and, where necessary, enforcing distribution services areas for all suppliers whose customers are them through procedures laid down in the Electricity and Gas within the areas.
Charges for distribution are made to the Acts.
Under these Acts, as amended by the Utilities Act, various suppliers as appropriate.
licences consist of standard licence conditions, which apply to all classes of licences, and special conditions particular to that Gas Transportation and Storage the onshore transportation licence.
The Authority may modify standard licence conditions system, most of which is owned and operated by Transco, the collectively through making proposals to all relevant licence transportation arm of National Grid Transco plc, and the rest holders.
If some licence holders object, the modification may by other gas transporters, conveys gas from the beach terminals be carried out only if the number of objectors is below a to consumers and is interconnected with the gas transportation specified minority.
The Authority may modify a special licence systems of continental Europe, Northern Ireland and the condition with the agreement of the licence holder after due Republic of Ireland.
Storage capacities are largely used to notice, public consultation and consideration of any balance supply and demand over time.
Major facilities are used representations or objections.
In the absence of agreement for to balance seasonal variations in demand while diurnal storage a special licence condition or if objections are above the capacities provide flexibility in meeting changing gas demand specified minority threshold for a standard licence condition, on a daily basis.
Competition in storage has been introduced the only means by which the Authority can secure a 26 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 modification is following a modification reference to the percentage change in the UKs retail price index, and X is a Competition Commission and in the circumstances set out percentage determined by the Authority.
The X factor is used below.
A modification reference requires the Competition to reflect expected efficiency gains and investment Commission to investigate having regard to the matters in requirements.
For example, where RPI is running at 3% and X relation to which duties are imposed on the Secretary of State is 2%, a company would be able to increase the average charge and the Authority and report on whether matters specified in for a bundle of services by 1% per annum.
The Authority from the reference in pursuance of a licence operate, or may be time to time reviews the price cap formulae.
Through expected to operate, against the public interest: and, if so, participation in, and the submission of evidence to, these price whether the adverse public interest effect of these factors could control reviews and, where necessary, through the Competition be remedied or prevented by modification of the conditions of Commission modification process described above, companies the licence.
If the Competition Commission so concludes, the have the opportunity to comment on and seek to influence the Authority must then make such modifications to the licence as final outcome of any price control review.
appear to it requisite for the purpose of remedying or preventing the adverse effects specified in the report, after Transmission Price Control giving due notice and consideration to any representations and The revised transmission price control for ScottishPower took objections.
The Secretary of State has the power to veto any effect for the five years from 1 April 2000 and, under the terms modification.
of BETTA, which establishes a Great Britain-wide wholesale Modifications to licence conditions may also be made in market for electricity, the price control for SP Transmission has consequence of a reference under the Fair Trading Act 1973, been extended for two years from 1 April 2005. the Enterprise Act 2002 or the Competition Act.
ScottishPowers acquisition of Manweb in 1995 and its merger Distribution Price Control with PacifiCorp in 1999 both involved ScottishPowers giving The maximum distribution revenue is calculated from a of undertakings to the Secretary of State to agree to formula that is based on customer numbers as well as units modifications to the licences under which the group operates distributed.
Distribution price controls for the SP Distribution in the UK.
Broadly, these modifications were designed to ringand SP Manweb operating areas, which took effect for the five fence various UK regulated businesses, to require that the years from 1 April 2005, provide incentives for distribution group had sufficient management and financial resources to companies to enhance returns through performance fulfil its UK obligations and to ensure that UK regulators improvements and to connect distributed generation and would continue to have access to the information needed to renewables.
Term and Revocation of Licences Licences under the Electricity Act, as modified by the Utilities 14 Environmental Regulation Act, may be terminated by not less than 25 years notice given Throughout its operations, ScottishPower strives to meet, or by the Secretary of State and may be revoked in certain exceed, relevant legislative and regulatory environmental circumstances specified in the licence.
These include the requirements and codes of practice.
ScottishPower will publish insolvency of the licensee, the licensees failure to comply with its 2004 05 Environmental and Social Impact Report and an enforcement order made by the Authority and the licensees Environmental Performance Report in October 2005.
Copies failure to carry on the activities authorised by the licence.
will be available on request from the Company Secretary and the reports will be available on the ScottishPower website.
Price Controls It is recognised that the development of competitive markets is US Environmental Regulation not appropriate in some areas: particularly in the core activities US federal, state and local authorities regulate many PacifiCorp of transmission and distribution of electricity and the operation and PPM Energy activities pursuant to laws and regulations of the gas transportation system.
In these areas, regulatory designed to prevent and control pollution and restore, protect controls are deemed necessary to protect customers in and enhance the quality of the environment.
These laws and monopoly markets by determining inflation-limited price caps regulations govern the construction, permitting, operation and and to encourage efficiency.
The groups UK transmission and closure of PacifiCorp and PPM Energy facilities.
In general, distribution businesses are subject to price controls or revenue these laws and regulations have increased the cost of providing controls in the case of the transmission business which restrict electricity service and give rise to permit and pollution control the average amount, or total amount, charged for a bundle of requirements and other liabilities, principally in respect of services.
The price caps are expressed in terms of an RPI X Clean Air Act matters, which are often the subject of constraint on charges, where RPI represents the annual 27 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background discussions and negotiations with the US Environmental to reduce future compliance costs to customers.
Protection Agency EPA and state regulatory authorities.
In The US Congress is currently considering several proposed addition, US environmental laws and regulations have become bills that would modify the overall enforceable limits on more stringent over time, and future changes in US electricity plant emission of sulphur dioxide SO, oxides of 2 environmental laws or regulations could increase PacifiCorps nitrogen NOx, mercury and in some cases CO.
These 2 operating costs, including those relating to site clean-up and proposed laws and regulations advocate a cap and trade closure, and give rise to challenges in obtaining and approach to overall reduction of air emissions from power maintaining required operational permits.
PacifiCorp expects facilities, which would allow generation facilities to meet more that future costs relating to these matters may be significant stringent emissions limits through the purchase of emission and will consist primarily of capital expenditures required to credits and or additional pollution controls.
The EPA also has upgrade or modify facilities to control or reduce regulated finalised new regulations that could impact emissions and is emissions.
PacifiCorp expects to manage its decision making pursuing enforcement actions against selected coal-fired power and implementation of these matters effectively so that these plants in the eastern and mid-western US with the aim of and future costs will be found to be prudent and recoverable in causing nationwide emission reductions.
All of these efforts rates and, as such, will not have a material adverse impact on may lead to additional control equipment being installed over the groups consolidated results of operations.
PacifiCorp expects that future costs relating to these matters may be significant and would consist Air Quality primarily of capital expenditure but will be spread over a PacifiCorp and PPM Energys fossil fuel-fired electricity number of years.
PacifiCorp also expects that these costs will generation plants, as well as other facilities with significant air be recovered through regulatory ratemaking.
emissions, are subject to regulation under federal, state and local air pollution permitting and pollution control and Endangered Species reduction requirements, primarily those under the federal Protection of threatened and endangered species and their Clean Air Act and associated regulations.
PacifiCorp and PPM habitat makes it difficult and more costly to perform some of Energy believe they have all required permits and other the core activities of the US businesses, including the siting, approvals to operate their plants and that the plants are in construction, maintenance and operation of new and existing material compliance with applicable requirements.
PacifiCorp transmission and distribution facilities, as well as hydroelectric, uses emission controls, low-sulphur coal, plant operating thermal and wind generation plants.
In addition, endangered practices sensitive to possible environmental impacts and species issues impact the relicensing of existing hydroelectric continuous emissions monitoring to ensure that its plants generating projects, generally raising the price PacifiCorp pays comply with visible emissions, opacity and criteria pollutant to purchase wholesale electricity from hydroelectric facilities limits and other air quality requirements.
Federal and state air owned by others as well as reducing the generating output and quality laws and regulations have and will become more operational flexibility and increasing the costs of operation of stringent over time.
In particular, the EPA has initiated a PacifiCorps own hydroelectric resources.
PacifiCorp creates regional haze programme intended to improve visibility at and implements management systems to ensure that specific federally protected areas, some of which are located environmental considerations are successfully incorporated near PacifiCorp plants.
This programme could require affected into major business decisions relating to its generation, PacifiCorp facilities to further reduce visible emissions through transmission and distribution assets.
capital expenditures for pollution controls or operational changes.
PacifiCorp is working with the Western Regional Air Environmental Clean-ups Partnership to help develop the technical and policy tools Under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, needed to comply with those regulations.
Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation Carbon dioxide CO emissions are the subject of and Recovery Act and similar state statutes, entities that 2 growing discussion and action in the context of global climate accidentally or intentionally dispose of, or arrange for the change, but such emissions are not currently subject to disposal of, hazardous substances may be liable without regard regulation.
PacifiCorp is anticipating climate change challenges to fault for the clean-up of the contaminated property.
In with additions of renewable generation, conservation and addition, the current or former owners or operators of thermal resources as outlined in the IRP.
CO emissions risk contaminated sites also may be strictly liable for corrective 2 has been recognised in PacifiCorps IRP through the use of a action costs.
PacifiCorp has been identified as a potentially projected additional cost applied to CO emissions when responsible party for the costs for site clean-up in connection 2 evaluating the cost of proposed resources.
PacifiCorp also with a number of current or formerly owned sites or third party supports development of US or global trading and other sites where PacifiCorp is alleged to have arranged for the market mechanisms, as well as offset strategies, where feasible, disposal of hazardous substances from its operations.
28 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 PacifiCorp has completed several clean-up actions and is Assessment Regulations, to carry out an environmental actively participating in investigations and remedial actions at assessment when it intends to construct significant overhead other sites.
transmission systems or power stations of greater capacity than 50 MW.
The group also prepares formal statements on Mining the Preservation of Amenity and Fisheries in line with the The federal Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of requirements of the Electricity Act.
1977 and similar state statutes establish permitting, siting, The Utilities Act provided for environmental guidance to operational, reclamation and closure standards that must be be given by the Secretary of State to the energy regulator, met during the operation and upon completion of mining Ofgem, and for regulations to be drawn up which require activities.
These obligations mandate that mine property be licensed electricity suppliers to secure a certain percentage of restored consistent with specific standards and the approved their supplies from renewable energy sources, compliance reclamation plan.
Significant expenditures are expected to be being demonstrated by tradable Renewables Obligation required as individual PacifiCorp mining operations are closed Certificates ROCs or payment of a Buyout Fine.
current legislative requirement is that 15.4% of UK energy should come from renewable sources by 2015.
ScottishPower Water Quality continues to develop its windfarm and renewables business in The federal Clean Water Act and individual state clean water support of these requirements.
In April 2005, the UK regulations require permits for the discharge of wastewater, Government also introduced amending legislation to recognise including storm water runoff from the electricity plants and coal ROCs generated in Northern Ireland, creating a single UKstorage areas, into surface waters and groundwater.
PacifiCorp wide market for trading ROCs from April 2005. and PPM Energy believe they have management systems in The Utilities Act also provided for residential energy place to monitor performance, identify problems and take efficiency targets to be set for licensed suppliers and to be action to assure compliance with wastewater permit and other implemented by an Energy Efficiency Commitment EEC.
Additionally, PacifiCorp believes The savings target, set by Ofgem, is to achieve fuel-weighted it currently has, or has initiated the process to receive, all energy benefits, which will make a contribution to carbon required water quality permits.
savings in the UK Governments Climate Change Programme.
ScottishPower has met its targets for EEC1 operating UK Environmental Regulation between April 2002 and March 2005 with the delivery of The groups UK businesses are subject to numerous regulatory over 4.5 Terawatt hours of energy saving benefits.
The revised requirements with respect to the protection of the scheme, called EEC2, will run from April 2005 to March 2011 environment, including environmental laws which regulate the with a formal review to take place in 2008. construction, operation and decommissioning of power The Environmental Protection Act of 1990 EPA 1990 stations, pursuant to legislation implementing environmental requires that potentially polluting activities such as the directives adopted by the EU and protocols agreed under the operation of combustion processes which includes power auspices of international bodies such as the United Nations plant requires prior authorisation.
The Act also provides for Economic Commission for Europe UNECE.
The group the licensing of waste management and imposes certain believes that it has taken and continues to take measures to obligations and duties on companies which produce, handle, comply with applicable laws and regulations for the protection and dispose of waste.
Waste generated as a result of the of the environment.
Applicable regulations and requirements groups electricity activities is managed to ensure compliance pertaining to the environment change frequently, however, with legislation and waste minimisation is undertaken where with the result that continued compliance may require possible.
material investments, or that the groups costs and results of operation are less favourable than anticipated.
Generation Activities The principal emissions from fossil-fuelled electricity Electricity Generation, Transmission, Distribution and Supply generation are SO, NOx, CO and particulate matter, such as 2 2 The Electricity Act obligates the Secretary of State to take into dust, with the main waste being ash, namely pulverised fuel account the effect of electricity generation, transmission, ash and furnace bottom ash.
The primary focus of previous distribution and supply activities upon the physical environmental legislation has been to reduce emissions of environment in approving applications for the construction of SO, NOx and particulates, the first two of which contribute 2 generating facilities and the location of overhead power lines.
A number of other power station emissions and The Electricity Act requires the group to take into account the discharges are subject to environmental regulation.
conservation of natural features of beauty and other items of The EU Emissions Trading Scheme is one of the policies particular interest and, in terms of the Environmental Impact being introduced across Europe to help implement the Kyoto 29 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background Protocol to tackle emissions of carbon dioxide and other plants.
New plant must immediately comply with the PPC greenhouse gases and to combat the threat of climate change.
"The scheme commenced on 1 January 2005 and works on a The EU has adopted a framework directive on ambient air ""cap and trade"" basis where installations are allocated a quality assessment and management and, under the auspices number of allowances which they can then trade to achieve of UNECE, protocols regarding reductions in the emissions reduced CO emissions at least cost."
The number of of SO and NOx have been agreed.
These protocols are 2 2 allowances allocated to each installation is set down in a currently implemented in the EU by means of the Large document called the National Allocation Plan NAP Combustion Plants Directive LCPD and the revision of which Member States were required to submit to the this Directive will implement tighter controls on emissions to European Commission EC in 2004.
The UKs final NAP air from 2008.
The EU has finalised a Ceilings Directive was published on 24 May 2005 and outlined the number of which will implement the SO and NOx targets agreed in the 2 free allocations to be issued to each installation in the UK UNECE Gothenburg Protocol.
In the UK, the Government during 2005 to 2007.
ScottishPower has 13 installations has submitted details to the EC of how it proposes to covered by the scheme and under the final NAP received just implement the LCPD.
Continued uncertainty remains on final under 14 million tonnes of free CO per annum.
arrangements surrounding implementation of bulk emissions 2 ScottishPower has fully integrated CO management into its and emission limit values.
Compliance with local air quality 2 energy portfolio and manages CO as a commodity alongside issues will continue to be implemented in the UK by means 2 power, gas and coal.
of the National Air Quality Strategy NAQS published in EPA 1990 is the primary UK statute governing the 1997, and reviewed in 2000.
The provisions of the revised environmental regulation of power stations.
In April 1991, it LCPD and of NAQS are to be introduced through the PPC introduced a system of Integrated Pollution Control IPC permitting process on a plant-by-plant basis.
for large scale industrial processes, including power stations, The group has identified options that, given the now enforced with respect to emissions to atmosphere in appropriate commercial conditions, would enable it to England & Wales by the Environment Agency EA and in continue the environmental improvements required by Scotland by the Scottish Environment Protection Agency potential future limits arising from this review, without SEPA.
Each of ScottishPowers power stations is required materially constraining operational and commercial flexibility.
to have its own IPC authorisation, issued by the EA or SEPA, regulating emissions of certain pollutants, seeking to Contaminated Sites minimise pollution of the environment and containing an While the nature of developments in environmental improvement programme.
Each IPC authorisation requires regulation and control cannot be predicted, the group that a power station uses the Best Available Techniques Not anticipates that the direction of future changes will be Entailing Excessive Cost BATNEEC to prevent the towards tightening controls.
In view of the age and history of emissions described above or, to the extent this is not many sites owned by the group, the group may incur liability practicable, to minimise and render harmless any such in respect of sites which are found to be contaminated, emissions.
ScottishPowers IPC authorisations do not have an together with increased costs of managing or cleaning up expiry date, but the EA or SEPA is required to review the such sites.
Site values could be affected and potential liability conditions contained within them at least once every four and clean-up costs may make disposal of potentially years and may impose new conditions to prevent or reduce contaminated sites more difficult.
The Contaminated Land emissions of pollutants, subject to the application of Regulations, which implement provisions of the Environment BATNEEC.
Act 1995 EA 1995, require local authorities to identify The EU has agreed a Directive on Integrated Pollution sites where significant harm is being caused and to take Prevention and Control, which introduces a system of appropriate steps.
In order for harm to be demonstrated it licensing for industrial processes such as power stations.
This must be shown that a source of pollution, a receptor and a Directive is being implemented via the Pollution Prevention pathway are present.
Harm may be eliminated by clean-up or and Control PPC Regulations which will bring by breaking the source to receptor pathway.
Clean-up is only modifications to the IPC regime into effect, on a staged basis.
required to fit for subsequent use standards, so that The EU Directive will eventually require that all emission and environmental compliance is consistent with the intended use pollution control measures are placed onto a Best Available of the site.
Techniques BAT basis to control the impact on the Other proposals which may, under certain conditions environment.
Existing large combustion plants, including impose strict liability for environmental damage, such as the power stations, are due to transfer over to the PPC regime Environmental Liability Directive, are presently being during 2006 and must apply for PPC Permits during the adopted by the EC.
ScottishPower is not currently aware of period January to March 2006.
ScottishPower has six such any liability which it may have under EA 1995 or proposed 30 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 EU directives which will have a materially adverse impact on the US work with these organisations to find ways to its operations.
incorporate their expertise into company policies.
Recent Developments The UK Employment Act 2002 Dispute Resolution Regulations 2004, effective from October 2004, place a legal 15 Employment Regulation obligation on employers to follow certain minimum procedures Each of the UK and the US has extensive legislation covering when resolving workplace disputes.
In order to comply with both health and safety and equal opportunities at work.
the Regulations, the company undertook a review of its existing ScottishPower has well-defined policies in place throughout employment procedures and concluded that the ScottishPower its businesses to ensure compliance with applicable laws and UK procedures far exceeded the minimum standards required.
These policies cover a wide range of The company has also undertaken a review of its existing employment issues such as disciplinary action, grievance, UK consultation arrangements in order to comply with the harassment, discrimination, stress and whistle-blowing.
Information and Consultation of Employees Regulations which A more extensive description of how the businesses come into force in April 2005.
These Regulations give discharge their wider responsibilities to protect the welfare, employees in larger firms rights to be informed and consulted health and safety of the public and their employees, can be on a regular basis about issues in the business they work for.
found in the ScottishPower Environmental and Social Impact Plans are in place to ensure that, by September 2005, each Report and the Workplace Performance Report, available on ScottishPower business in the UK has conducted a review of the ScottishPower website.
A brief overview of the more how it engages with its employees and produced an action plan extensively regulated aspects of employment follows.
which takes account of the Regulations.
A further review of the company-level machinery will then be undertaken to support Equal Opportunities and maximise the aims of each business and of the ScottishPower is committed to promoting equal opportunities ScottishPower employee relations philosophy.
for all, irrespective of age, colour, disability, ethnic or national In September 2004, California passed legislation requiring origin, marital status, nationality, race, religion or similar employers with 50 or more employees in California to provide belief, creed, sex, sexual orientation or any other sexual harassment training to all supervisory employees.
The considerations that do not affect a person's ability to perform groups US businesses are developing and will implement their job.
The company aims to promote equality of sexual harassment training tailored to meet this requirement opportunity through the implementation of nonand will adapt relevant procedures to ensure tracking of all discriminatory policies, practices and initiatives in all aspects California supervisory employees in accordance with the law.
of employment in ScottishPower, including recruitment and From 10 March 2005, US employers were required to post selection, terms and conditions of employment, career a notice informing employees of their rights under the Uniform development and retention.
Services Employment and Reemployment Act.
Compliance The company aims to take particular action in respect of with this federal law was ensured by sending e-mail disability in order to encourage job applications from disabled notification of the law and the required posting of materials to candidates and to establish working conditions which the appropriate individuals.
encourage the full participation of people with disabilities.
The company is committed to making all reasonable adjustments Health and Safety and accommodations necessary to attract, develop and retain During January and February 2005, the performance of eight people with disabilities.
This includes the rehabilitation, group businesses was assessed against the Group Health & training and reassignment of employees who develop a Safety Standards.
The results showed that 29% of the assessed disability business units achieved the level four or five expected of a ScottishPower works proactively with a range of world-class performer in comparison with 19% in 2003 04.
A organisations that promote equality of opportunity including further 63% of the assessed business units met the level three in the UK, the Equal Opportunities Commission, Employers threshold of demonstrable attention to the key issues compared Forum on Age, Employers Forum on Disability, Job Centre with 54% in 2003 04.
Plus and The Council of British Pakistanis Scotland.
The Company also maintains positive relations with the federal US Businesses The lost time accident LTA rate for the US and state compliance and enforcement agencies in the US, businesses increased from 0.66 to 0.92, an increase in LTAs including the Department of Labor, the Office of Federal from 42 to 59 during 2004 05 primarily due to an increase in Contract Compliance Programs and the Equal Employment the number of accidents in the power delivery business Opportunity Commission.
ScottishPower HR in the UK and compared to the previous year.
The highlight was PPM Energy 31 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background maintaining its 0.0 LTA rate from prior years, whilst Pacific and Energy Networks Association, and engages in Klamath Energy was re-certified in the Oregon Sharp Program representation to the UK Health and Safety Executive, the DTI from the Oregon Occupational Safety and Health and other relevant organisations through these industry groups.
The groups US Health & Safety Committee continues to meet on a regular basis, providing senior executive oversight and leadership in PacifiCorp and PPM Energy in these areas.
16 Litigation Major initiatives are underway in PacifiCorps power delivery, In May 2004, PacifiCorp was served with a complaint filed in generation and mining business units and in PPM Energy to the US District Court for the District of Oregon by the reduce and prevent accidents.
Klamath Tribes of Oregon and certain of the Klamath Tribes' The US businesses participate with other industry members.
The claim generally alleges that PacifiCorp and its stakeholders in the regulatory process on significant safety and predecessors affected the Klamath Tribes federal treaty rights health regulatory proposals affecting the utility and mining to fish for salmon in the headwaters of the Klamath River in industries.
PacifiCorp is also well represented amongst these southern Oregon by building dams that blocked the passage of stakeholders, with safety professionals occupying leadership salmon upstream to the headwaters beginning in 1911.
The positions in both mining and electricity trade associations complaint seeks in excess of $1.0 billion in damages.
PacifiCorps motion for summary judgement and dismissal of the case was supported by the magistrate judges UK Businesses The LTA rate for the UK businesses reduced recommendation in April 2005 but the Klamath Tribes from 0.62 to 0.42, a reduction in LTAs from 48 to 36.
The objections to that recommendation, and PacifiCorps response, highlight of the year was in the generation business which had are now before the court.
Any final order will be subject to a period of seven months without any LTAs and only two LTAs appeal.
during the 12 months to April 2005.
The groups businesses are parties to various other legal In the UK, the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and claims, actions and complaints, certain of which may involve Dangerous Occurrences Regulations set out the requirements material amounts.
Although the group is unable to predict with for reporting of all work-related accidents.
As UK regulators certainty whether or not it will ultimately be successful in these and enforcement authorities increasingly seek to raise the legal proceedings or, if not, what the impact might be, the priority and importance that companies give to health and directors currently believe that disposition of these matters will safety issues, they are likely to take action for any nonnot have a materially adverse effect on the groups compliance.
The company continues to support industry consolidated Accounts.
organisations, such as the Association of Electricity Producers 32 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 17 Summary of Key Operating Statistics Table 1 Summary of PacifiCorp Generating Facilities as at 31 March 2005 Plant Net Installation Capability Location Energy Source Dates MW Hydroelectric plants Swift Cougar, Washington Lewis River 1958 264.0 Merwin Ariel, Washington Lewis River 1931-1958 144.0 Yale Amboy, Washington Lewis River 1953 165.0 Five North Umpqua Plants Toketee Falls, Oregon N. Umpqua River 1950-1956 138.5 John C. Boyle Keno, Oregon Klamath River 1958 90.0 Copco 1 and 2 Hornbrook, California Klamath River 1918-1925 54.5 Clearwater 1 and 2 Toketee Falls, Oregon Clearwater River 1953 41.0 Grace Grace, Idaho Bear River 1908-1923 33.0 Prospect 2 Prospect, Oregon Rogue River 1928 36.0 Cutler Collingston, Utah Bear River 1927 29.1 Oneida Preston, Idaho Bear River 1915-1920 28.0 Iron Gate Hornbrook, California Klamath River 1962 20.0 Soda Soda Springs, Idaho Bear River 1924 14.0 Fish Creek Toketee Falls, Oregon Fish Creek 1952 12.0 31 minor hydroelectric plants Various Various 1895-1990 86.3 Subtotal 51hydroelectric plants 1,155.4 Thermal electric plants Jim Bridger Rock Springs, Wyoming Coal-Fired 1974-1979 1,413.4 Huntington Huntington, Utah Coal-Fired 1974-1977 895.0 Dave Johnston Glenrock, Wyoming Coal-Fired 1959-1972 762.0 Naughton Kemmerer, Wyoming Coal-Fired 1963-1971 700.0 Hunter 1 and 2 Castle Dale, Utah Coal-Fired 1978-1980 662.0 Hunter 3 Castle Dale, Utah Coal-Fired 1983 460.0 Cholla Unit 4 Joseph City, Arizona Coal-Fired 1981 380.0 Wyodak Gillette, Wyoming Coal-Fired 1978 268.0 Carbon Castle Gate, Utah Coal-Fired 1954-1957 172.0 Craig 1 and 2 Craig, Colorado Coal-Fired 1979-1980 165.0 Colstrip 3 and 4 Colstrip, Montana Coal-Fired 1984-1986 149.0 Hayden 1 and 2 Hayden, Colorado Coal-Fired 1965-1976 78.0 Blundell Milford, Utah Geothermal 1984 23.0 Gadsby Salt Lake City, Utah Gas-Fired 1951-2002 355.0 Little Mountain Ogden, Utah Gas-Fired 1972 14.0 Hermiston Hermiston, Oregon Gas-Fired 1996 245.0 Camas Co-Gen Camas, Washington Black Liquor 1996 52.0 Subtotal 16 thermal electric plants 6,793.4 Other plants Foote Creek Arlington, Wyoming Wind Turbines 1998 32.6 Subtotal 1 other plant 32.6 Total generating facilities 7,981.4 Jointly owned plants: amount shown represents PacifiCorp's share only.
Note: Hydroelectric project locations are stated by locality and river watershed.
Table 2 PacifiCorp Recoverable Coal Reserves as at 31 March 2005 Recoverable Tons Location Notes Plant Served in millions Craig, Colorado 1 Craig 48.4 Emery County, Utah 2 Huntington and Hunter 67.6 Rock Springs, Wyoming 3 Jim Bridger 143.1 Notes: 1 These coal reserves are leased and mined by Trapper Mining, Inc. a Delaware non-stock corporation operated on a cooperative basis, in which PacifiCorp has an ownership interest of approximately 20%.
2 These coal reserves are mined by PacifiCorp subsidiaries.
3 These coal reserves are leased and mined by Bridger Coal Company, a joint venture between Pacific Minerals, Inc. a subsidiary of PacifiCorp, and a subsidiary of Idaho Power Company.
Pacific Minerals, Inc. has a two-thirds interest in the joint venture.
Coal reserve estimates are subject to adjustment as a result of the development of additional data, new mining technology and changes in regulation and economic factors affecting the use of such reserves.
33 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Business Review Summary of Key Operating Statistics Table 3 PacifiCorp Distribution and Transmission Systems Key Information 2004 05 Pacific Power Utah Power Total Franchise area 72,075 sq miles 63,175 sq miles 135,250 sq miles System maximum demand 4,018 MW 4,610 MW 8,628 MW Transmission network miles Overhead 15,530 Distribution network miles Underground 5,798 8,705 14,503 Overhead 26,143 17,709 43,852 Table 4 Total Electricity Units Distributed in Pacific Power Service Area GWh Year Residential % Commercial % Industrial % Other % Total 2000 01 7,768 31 7,041 28 10,164 40 130 1 25,103 2001 02 7,537 31 6,932 29 9,743 40 129 24,341 2002 03 7,454 31 7,081 29 9,478 40 90 24,103 2003 04 8,205 33 7,587 31 9,025 36 72 24,889 2004 05 7,889 32 7,507 31 9,230 37 75 24,701 Table 5 Total Electricity Units Distributed in Utah Power Service Area GWh Year Residential % Commercial % Industrial % Other % Total 2000 01 5,687 24 6,593 28 10,495 45 575 2 23,350 2001 02 5,858 25 6,878 30 9,868 43 582 2 23,186 2002 03 5,833 26 6,925 30 9,570 42 541 2 22,869 2003 04 6,256 26 6,826 29 10,109 42 599 3 23,790 2004 05  Table 6 Summary of PPM Energy Generating Facilities as at 31 March 2005 Plant Net Installation Capability Location Energy Source Date MW Thermal electric plants Klamath Cogeneration Plant Klamath Falls, Oregon Natural gas-fired Combined cycle 2001 506 West Valley Generating Plant West Valley City, Utah Natural gas-fired Single cycle 2002 200 Klamath Generating Plant Klamath Falls, Oregon Natural gas-fired Single cycle 2002 100 Subtotal 3 thermal electric plants 806 Renewable electric plants Phoenix Wind Power Plant Southern California Wind generation 1999 3 Stateline Wind Energy Center Oregon Washington Wind generation 2002 300 Klondike Wind Power Plant Northcentral Oregon Wind generation 2001 24 High Winds Energy Center Northern California Wind generation 2003 162 Southwest Wyoming Wind Energy Center Southwest Wyoming Wind generation 2003 144 Moraine Wind Power Plant Southwest Minnesota Wind generation 2003 51 Flying Cloud Wind Power Plant Northwest Iowa Wind generation 2003 44 Mountain View III Wind Power Plant Southern California Wind generation 2003 22 Colorado Green Wind Power Plant Southeast Colorado Wind generation 2003 81 Subtotal 9 renewable electric plants 831 Total all plants Owned or controlled plants 1,637 Jointly owned plant: amount shown represents PPM Energys share only.
34 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Table 7 Sources of ScottishPower Owned Generating Capacity in the UK and the Republic of Ireland as at 31 March 2005 Plant Net Installation Capability Location Energy Source Date MW Thermal electric plants Longannet Fife, Scotland Coal gas waste derived fuel 1970 2,304 Cockenzie East Lothian, Scotland Coal oil biomass 1967 1,152 Brighton Sussex, England Natural gas-fired Combined cycle 2000 400 Damhead Creek Kent, England Natural gas-fired Combined cycle 2000 800 Knapton Yorkshire, England Sour gas-fired Single open cycle 1994 42 Rye House Hertfordshire, England Natural gas-fired Combined cycle 1993 715 Subtotal 6 thermal electric plants 5,413 Hydroelectic plants Cruachan Argyll & Bute, Scotland Pumped Storage 1965 440 Galloway Scheme Dumfries & Galloway, Scotland Conventional Hydro 1930s 1985 106 Lanark Scheme Lanarkshire, Scotland Conventional Hydro 1920s 17 Subtotal 3 hydroelectric plants 563 Renewable electric plants Barnesmore County Donegal, Republic of Ireland Wind generation 1997 15 Bienn an Tuirc Argyll & Bute, Scotland Wind generation 2001 30 Carland Cross Cornwall, England Wind generation 1992 3 Coal Clough Lancashire, England Wind generation 1992 4 Corkey County Antrim, Northern Ireland Wind generation 1994 5 Cruach Mhor Argyll & Bute, Scotland Wind generation 2004 30 Dun Law Midlothian, Scotland Wind generation 2000 17 Elliots Hill County Antrim, Northern Ireland Wind generation 1995 5 Hagshaw Hill Lanarkshire, Scotland Wind generation 1995 16 Hare Hill Ayrshire, Scotland Wind generation 2000 13 P & L Windfarm Monmouthshire, Wales Wind generation 1993 15 Rigged Hill County Londonderry, Northern Ireland Wind generation 1994 5 Subtotal 12 renewable electric plants 158 CHP Various, England Combined heat and power gas-fired 102 Total all plants Owned or controlled plants 6,236 Jointly owned plants: amount shown represents ScottishPower's share only.
