Business review Christopher Hyman Chief Executive We are proud to combine a strong public service ethos with commercial know-how.
We work hard to protect that culture by living our governing principles.
10 Annual review and accounts 2005 Vision, strategy and values Organic growth Organic growth both new contracts and Vision expanding the scale and scope of contracts Our vision is to be the leading service company in with existing customers is fundamental to Serco.
We aim to be the best partner It is enabled by our structure, which devolves to work with, the company people aspire to work responsibility as far as practicable so we can for and a company that delivers superior returns be more responsive, customer focused and to its shareholders.
We only make acquisitions to bring new skills into the Group or to open up Strategy new markets either geographically or in new Sercos strategy is to build a balanced contract business areas.
portfolio, spread across different sectors and geographic markets around the world.
We do this Delivering excellent service and building long through organic growth, achieved by delivering term relationships excellent service and building long term We support governments, agencies and relationships with our customers.
companies who seek a trusted partner with a solid track-record of providing assured service Balanced contract portfolio excellence.
Delivering our customers required A balanced portfolio brings three benefits: outcomes enables us to develop long term broader exposure to growth opportunities, better relationships with them, which in turn drives diversification of risk and the opportunity to share our organic growth as we expand the scale good practice honed by wide experience.
Even if and scope of our contracts.
one market sector or region slows down, we will still be able to deliver strong growth.
None of our Values contracts accounts for more than 10% of our Our values are captured within our Governing revenue.
We are able to transfer our skills and Principles, which define the way we behave.
capabilities from one sector to another and to other countries as their markets develop.
com 11 Business review We foster an entrepreneurial culture insight into public private partnerships.
It recently We are passionate about building innovative conducted an anonymous research programme and successful businesses.
with more than 100 of our contract managers who have moved from the public to the private This means we succeed by encouraging sector.
Overwhelmingly, they reported that and generating new ideas.
We trust our people contracting public services to the private sector to deliver.
We embrace change and by taking made it easier to deliver high quality, better value measured risks encourage creative thinking.
public services and made them feel more accountable for delivering outcomes, rather We enable our people to excel than just managing processes.
Our success comes from our commitment and energy to go the extra mile.
Our reputation for delivering excellent service and our ability to build long term relationships is behind the This means we are responsible to each other consistent success Serco has enjoyed to date.
and can expect support when we need it most.
We expect our people to achieve more by As we move deeper into markets and extend into recognising and harnessing the power of new markets, we require our reputation to precede individuals.
We value people for their knowledge, us.
The Serco name is becoming better known ideas and potential to contribute.
among commercial and political audiences and we continue to strengthen our brand through the We deliver our promises services we provide, our contribution to policy We do what we say we will do to meet expectations.
debates and the provision of tangible and topical examples of service improvement.
This means we only promise what we can deliver.
If we make mistakes we put them right.
We are Operating environment clear about what we need to achieve and we Our opportunities for growth in our public sector expect to make a fair profit.
markets are created by two principal drivers: the necessity for central and local governments to We build trust and respect control their spending and their need to respond to We build trust and respect by operating in a safe, social pressures for improved public services.
socially responsible, consistent and honest manner.
More governments are recognising the value This means we never compromise on safety.
of private sector partnership in the delivery of We listen.
We treat others as we would wish to essential public services.
We focus our efforts be treated and challenge when we see something on those sectors and countries with the is wrong.
All Serco employees are expected to adhere to The climate in the UK, North America and parts of the highest standards in dealings with colleagues, Europe is working strongly in our favour and we customers, suppliers or shareholders.
By setting see longer term potential in selected countries in these standards and by supporting each other, the Middle East and Asia Pacific, including China.
we aim to get the best out of our people and subsequently the best service for our customers.
The UK Government spends hundreds of This is vital to our ongoing business.
billions of pounds every year on public services.
The proportion that is competitively sourced is The role of culture and reputation relatively small but growing rapidly.
Issues such To prosper in a service market it is essential as improving civil resilience, reducing re-offending, to have the right culture and the right reputation.
enhancing peoples health, helping childrens education, and more efficient use of transport Sercos culture has developed over many infrastructure are high on the political agenda.
We are proud to combine a strong We see substantial opportunities for us to be public service ethos with commercial know-how.
part of the range of public, private and voluntary We work hard to protect that culture by living our organisations contributing to the reform programme.
This move to involve a broad church of organisations demonstrates how government is shifting its role The Serco Institute, our public policy think tank, from implementing initiatives to defining the is now internationally recognised as a centre of outcomes needed from public services.
12 Annual review and accounts 2005 In the UK home affairs market, the Governments We have focused our European strategy onto focus is on reducing crime and the fear of crime.
opportunities in two key areas: the European We estimate that this market is worth 2.5bn per scientific agency network and the German annum and growing fast.
We have created a new public sector.
position in healthcare, which is among the largest and fastest growing areas of UK Government In Germany, economic and political conditions spending some 89bn in 2005 6. are accelerating the trend towards public private partnerships.
There is a widening gap between the The Government spends 70bn on education supply of public funds and demand for investment and we see opportunities in childrens services in the countrys essential infrastructure and and information and communications technology services.
These pressures are felt at federal, state emerging from the recent Education Bill.
In science, and local government levels, resulting in a broad the formation of the Nuclear Decommissioning range of opportunities emerging for Serco.
Authority has created a market worth around Our primary focus is in the defence and justice 2bn per year.
markets, with transport also likely to provide exciting opportunities.
Most areas of the UK public sector are seeing budgetary pressure and in response are changing We see prospects in the Middle East, in particular the way they work.
In UK defence, for example, the United Arab Emirates.
In Asia Pacific, the we expect our addressable market to double Australian defence and transport markets continue to 8bn per annum by 2010, as the Ministry of to offer good potential, while the opening of our Defence focuses resources, continues to civilianise Shanghai, China office positions us to explore and seeks cost savings.
opportunities as the regional government pursues its ambitious public service objectives.
A similar pattern is emerging in North America, the worlds largest services market.
The market is estimated at $2,000bn a year, of which around one third is at the federal level and the remainder with state and local governments.
The annual US defence budget is nearly $400bn and rising.
New military challenges and ongoing conflict in the Middle East has put our biggest US customer, the Department of Defense, under pressure to focus resources on its frontline operations.
The shift of personnel from the back office into active duty creates an opportunity that we can fill.
Some market segments in North America are looking at private sector service provision for the first time and more established markets, such as municipal services and transportation, are moving to more sophisticated, performance-based contracting as the emphasis shifts from lowest cost to best value, a trend which plays to Sercos strengths.
com 13 Our Lads n Dads scheme helps to develop parenting skills and responsibility in young people at Ashfield Civil government Reducing re-offending is a priority for the UK Government and Serco plays an important part in this complex and challenging area.
Under a 25-year PFI contract we operate HMP & YOI Ashfield, the only privately-run prison solely responsible for the care of young people.
It currently houses 360 males aged between 15 and 18, either on remand or serving custodial sentences.
We are responsible for all services at Ashfield, Many of the lads in here are fathers or have from employing the custody officers to providing girlfriends who are pregnant.
Most have little education, training, health, personal development or no parenting skills many have never even and drug rehabilitation.
Our ethos at Ashfield pushed a pram or given a bottle, she explains.
as with the four adult prisons we run is based on holding the young people in our care safely Lads n Dads allows young fathers to spend and securely, while treating them with dignity quality time with their partners and children and respect.
We aim to help the young men who pass through Having a relationship with their children totally Ashfield live stable, healthy and law-abiding lives changes their outlook on offending behaviour, after release by providing support and training to says Danuta.
They want to be a father, to go out to tackle the issues they face issues often work and provide for their families.
And its working originating in difficult social circumstances, weve only had one lad come back here since the poor educational attainment and drug or scheme started two years ago.
The scheme has received considerable recognition: High on our agenda is helping them maintain in 2005, Danuta was awarded the Butlers Trust or re-establish contact with their families.
Danuta Award for her Outstanding Contribution to the Hinde, community and family liaison officer, carries Effective Care of Prisoners.
A 2004 HM Inspectorate out this vital role.
She visits every new arrival to offer of Prisons report also praised it as a significant support and is always looking for new ways to help development in the curriculum.
the young people she works with.
And the young people at Ashfield appreciate One innovative scheme that Danuta introduced Danutas efforts.
As one said recently: I feel more is Lads n Dads.
responsible and have lots more confidence with my son... Ive realised that my family is more important than crime.
com 15 Business review | operating performance | civil government Civil government remains our largest market.
During 2005, revenue grew by 28% to 803.6m, representing 36% of our total revenue.
Civil government encompasses many of the largest and fastest growing markets, including home affairs, education, health, regional and local government, and consulting.
Home affairs designed to improve the UKs fire and rescue Home affairs is at the top of the UKs political services response to a catastrophic incident.
agenda, and has become a strong source of new business for us.
At the start of 2005, we combined As a result of our work at the ODPM, we have been our Premier Custodial Group and Justice divisions awarded new work with the Home Office chemical, to create one business focused on four key areas: biological, radiological and nuclear resilience civil resilience, offender management, law programme which deals with the police response enforcement, and immigration control.
With the to catastrophic incidents.
ability to draw on complementary strands of expertise from across the Group, such as science Offender management and defence, Serco has emerged as one of the few We run four adult prisons in the UK, a young businesses that can deliver the integrated solutions offenders institute and a secure training centre our customers demand.
We also provide prison escort and custody services across London and the south east Civil resilience of England, and electronic monitoring of offenders.
Our compelling offering secured our first major civil resilience win - a ten-year contract valued In October 2005, we secured an important win: at around 100m to provide solutions that detect a five-year contract valued at around 30m to the illicit importation of radiological substances provide electronic monitoring of offenders across at UK borders.
Managed by the Home Office, Scotland.
This award, made by the Scottish the Cyclamen programme is central to the UK Executive, means that we now manage three of Governments counter-terrorism strategy.
the six electronic monitoring contracts in the UK.
This success has attracted interest from abroad and we are confident that we can transfer the The UK Government is committed to encouraging model to other countries.
a contestable and plural market, where private sector companies will be able to bid to run public We have also supported efforts to reinforce sector prisons.
We anticipate announcements the UKs national crisis management capability, during 2006 outlining government policy on this working with the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister issue, and we will pursue attractive opportunities ODPM to deliver the New Dimension programme, that arise from it.
In addition, we are looking to 16 Annual review and accounts 2005 leverage our abilities in other parts of the Group in service a number of additional places at Colnbrook the reskilling, education and aftercare of released and work is under way to convert unused areas of inmates.
the centre into a further 35 places.
We are also examining opportunities to bid for the operation of Our efforts to extend our home affairs capability other immigration removal centres.
By the end of the year, our team in Germanys first partlyThe UK Government is investing heavily in services privatised prison, at Hnfeld in Hessen, were and infrastructure that will protect citizens from a ready to begin work.
Over the next six years, range of evolving threats and challenges.
Our they will deliver all the facilitys non-custodial four-member consortium has now been shortlisted services, including psychological, medical and for the e-borders project.
We are bidding to provide educational care, rehabilitation services, catering the Warnings Index, a secure database used by the and facilities management.
Home Office to identify potentially high-risk people trying to enter the UK.
We also believe we are wellThis gives our German team an excellent positioned for the forthcoming ID card programme.
platform from which to bid for the second partlyprivatised prison, at Burg, in the state of SachsenOur technology business streams continue to grow Anhalt.
This opportunity will come up for tender steadily with a balanced portfolio of opportunities.
Notably, we are focussing our efforts on crossborder and airport security technology.
Law enforcement Globalisation of communications, technological Education advances and the opening up of borders mean Serco is one of the leading private sector partners that serious crime is becoming more sophisticated in the UK education and childrens services sectors.
A number of government initiatives, not least the Every Child Matters agenda and Building Schools Since 2000, we have had a strategic partnership for the Future programme, plus continuing pressure with the UKs National Crime Squad NCS.
Owing on schools to improve performance, make the to the new crime threats faced today, the NCS, the education sector fast-moving.
National Criminal Intelligence Service, parts of HM Revenue & Customs and the Home Offices We run two local education authorities in the UK - Immigration and Nationality Directorate are Walsall and Bradford.
In January 2005 the Office amalgamating into the Serious and Organised for Standards in Education Ofsted reported Crime Agency.
We will continue to build on our that the performance of Bradfords services was relationship with this important new organisation.
satisfactory, a significant turnaround for what was once one of the poorest performing authorities Central to our relationship with the NCS has been in the country.
the development of the Athena software, which provides the organisation with a holistic In 2005 Ofsted published a report declaring intelligence, operations and evidence management Education Walsalls services to be highly system.
Our track record means that there are satisfactory.
This transformation was achieved opportunities to sell Athena to police forces just two years after the service was condemned and crime prevention organisations outside the UK.
as being very poor and put out to competition.
We also see new opportunities arising from the While there is still a considerable amount of proposed merger of UK police forces, including work to be done, both Walsall and Bradford have improving the efficiency of back office systems that continued to improve at rates faster than national allow the police to fight crime rather than carry out trends in all indicators.
We are exploring other education opportunities.
Immigration control Our school management information software is Our management record at Colnbrook Immigration gaining market share based on the ability it gives Removal Centre and Short-Term Holding Facility schools to monitor and hence improve their near Heathrow Airport and the Dungavel performance.
Numerous schools have improved Immigration Removal Centre in Scotland has attendance and assessment using our products.
secured us a strong reputation in this demanding area.
We have grown revenue by bringing into www.
com 17 Business review | operating performance | civil government We provide consultancy and project management University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, support to childrens services departments for involves extensively refurbishing, modernising a growing number of local authorities.
and supporting the Trusts hospitals.
The The Governments move to align education and associated support services contract will be childrens social care, and place schools at the valued at around 1.2bn to Serco over 35 years.
heart of their communities, will provide us with a number of opportunities in the provision of In managed healthcare, Serco now provides integrated services.
NHS out of hours cover for one million people.
We acquired a doctors out of hours business in The implementation of policies contained in the Cardiff during 2005.
Building on this acquisition, Education Bill and the continuing push towards we now have a confirmed order book in excess of central and local government becoming 50m through contract wins in Oxford and a further commissioning organisations rather than delivery contract covering the whole of Cornwall.
organisations will create further opportunities.
From this platform we have won other contracts.
Middle East At Feltham Young Offenders Institute & Remand In 2005, Serco completed an advisory facilities Centre, we provide all nurses and deploy doctors management service during the master planning and other health professionals to care for the stage of the proposed design and construction young people at the facility.
The contract is valued of the United Arab Emirates University in Al Ain, at around 4m over three years with provision for a a 19,000-student campus.
Similarly, we won a three-year continuing to form a joint venture company to contract with Cardiff Local Health Board.
In provide the campus with facilities management conjunction with local doctors, we will provide and operational maintenance.
medical services to HMP Cardiff from April 2006.
Health Our win with the Newham Primary Care NHS Trust Health is an emerging market for Serco and our is an example of how we are using our skills to focus is on managed healthcare and providing offer an integrated, managed healthcare package.
services to new hospitals built under Private Serco has been appointed to improve care for Finance Initiatives PFIs.
patients with long term illnesses and will manage patients conditions through community matrons, Among notable developments, our joint venture who will analyse patients needs and arrange with Equion Ltd, a division of John Laing plc, home-based support.
We will also train community was appointed preferred bidder for a major PFI matrons and develop supporting information to programme to improve health services in Leicester.
help devise the best care for each patient.
The Pathway project, commissioned by the 18 Annual review and accounts 2005 As our health business continues to grow, we are Central government services presented with opportunities where we can bring In November, we had a significant win when we to bear the range and depth of skills across the were selected to provide the UK Government with Group.
For example, we will be able to provide web-based information services to support the healthcare services to facilities that we operate, nations growing small businesses.
The contract such as immigration removal centres.
with the Department of Trade and Industry will run for five years with up to four additional one-year We are also seeking to expand our hospital PFI renewals, and could be valued at more than 125m portfolio and have a pipeline of further opportunities, over this extended period.
including a current bid for the Forth Valley PFI.
The successful bid, originating in Serco Regional and local government Solutions, draws on skills and experience from The regional and local government market is across the Group to deliver the contract one where we see significant opportunities for requirements.
Under the contract, Serco will growth.
We have a strong reputation as a provider be responsible for developing and delivering of IT services, business management and the business.
gov programme, including the environmental services to UK local authorities.
uk portal, which provides Our position in the local authority market was advice and guidance to small businesses from significantly strengthened by the acquisition of across local, regional and national government.
ITNET now Serco Solutions in February 2005.
Consulting The expertise we have gained in our long term Since its formation in 2003, our consulting business strategic contracts, including Winchester and has grown rapidly and now employs around 80 Canterbury City Councils and Woking Borough consultants.
It aims to raise awareness of and Council, led to further wins in 2005.
We were enhance Sercos reputation with potential and awarded a contract by Restormel Borough Council existing customers by providing high-value advisory in Cornwall, valued at around 45m over ten years, services.
Our presence was substantially increased to provide streetscene services including recycling, by the addition of French Thornton, the consulting street cleaning and refuse collection.
a contract to provide a range of environmental services to Welwyn Hatfield Council.
Our consulting business draws on subject experts from the wider organisation to provide clients with Serco is a leading supplier of IT and IT-enabled a unique proposition high-level consultancy services to local government.
In June 2005, backed up by deep operational experience.
we were chosen by IBM as a sub-contractor to implement Bradford Councils IT platforms and In the public sector, we have started work with new services.
The programme of transformation will take customers at the Department of Health, the Home ten years and is valued at 158m to the consortium.
Office and the Environment Agency.
Over the last year, we have seen contract At the BBC, we are supporting the procurement extensions with councils in Southwark, Ealing, of a cost-effective, over-the-counter solution for Bedfordshire and Cotswold.
We have also delivered licence fee collection.
We are assisting BBC additional services and projects to a number of Property as it transitions to a new operating councils including Coventry, Enfield and model and new suppliers.
Hertfordshire, a contract which is an innovative response to the Governments requirement that We are managing projects at a major retail local councils adopt shared services as a way of bank as part of a wider programme to migrate increasing efficiency.
high-net-worth customers from a legacy banking system to a new strategic solution.
At a global One of the key opportunities in this area is the investment bank, we are assisting the development outsourcing of UK local and central government of a software lifecycle model, reviewing credit-risk shared services.
This has been slower than approval systems solutions and helping the bank anticipated in coming to market.
We have invested provide technical and project management support in enhanced capacity and capability to prepare for to client engagement solutions.
the rapid expansion in this market.
com 19 We provide a world-class service that passengers can rely on and build their lives around Transport When you rebid for a contract as significant as the Docklands Light Railway DLR, nothing can be taken for granted.
However, our outstanding performance and inspired vision for the future led to our customer, Transport for London, renewing our contract to operate and maintain the DLR for up to a further nine years.
Serco runs the whole of the complex DLR system, As the network expands, we will phase in new including operating the driverless trains and services that will benefit customers and enhance maintaining the rolling stock, track, signalling, their travel experience.
These include on-train control systems and stations.
screens that give up-to-date travel information and a team of Travelsafe officers who will patrol Since we started running DLR in 1997 we have the network in darkness hours.
And we will manage consistently met or exceeded performance targets the introduction of three-car trains to replace the and delivered record reliability scores year on year.
current two-car trains on the line between Bank For five months in 2005, our reliability exceeded and Lewisham.
This is even more remarkable considering that the number of We are pleased that we are going to be passengers has almost trebled from 18m responsible for marketing the network too, a year at the start of the franchise.
thus growing the business in the years to come.
This endorses our strong relationships with local The rail industry has recognised the strength of communities, which have earned Serco Docklands our performance.
For six consecutive years we Business in the Community awards for the past have been honoured in the National Rail Awards two years.
including twice winning Rail Operator of the Year and in 2005, the prestigious award for The growth of the network will mean increased Outstanding Achievement.
passenger numbers, and our track record in handling large volumes of passengers will stand Under the new contract, we will continue us in good stead for the 2012 Olympics where delivering these levels of service while looking the DLR will play a key role in transporting visitors forward to exciting developments.
The DLR is set and officials.
to keep growing, with planned extensions to Woolwich Arsenal, opening in 2009, and Stratford Our aim is to continue providing a world-class International, set for 2010. service that passengers can rely on and build their lives around.
With up to 13,000 station departures a day and 52 million passenger journeys a year, its an exhilarating challenge.
com 21 Business review | operating performance | transport Transport is a very strong sector for Serco, with revenue growing 59% to 548.7m in 2005, driven by the first full year of operation of Northern Rail.
Transport accounted for 24% of our revenue in the year.
Our strategy is to grow our presence in rail With other franchises coming up for tender in and to develop our urban transportation business the near future, we will look to bid where we see which integrates our light rail and traffic profitable opportunities.
As our expertise in this management capabilities with a focus on major sector grows, we are also looking to overseas conurbations.
We are also seeking to expand our markets.
In particular, we are enthusiastic about position in air, where we are one of the leading Germany, the most advanced rail franchise market private sector providers of air traffic control and outside the UK.
Asia Pacific Rail In Australia, we run the Great Southern Railway.
UK Its service between Adelaide and Darwin - known Serco has established a strong presence in rail as The Ghan - won several travel and tourism through our two franchises, Northern Rail and industry awards in 2005, including the prestigious Merseyrail, which we operate in conjunction with national Australian Newspaper Award for the most our partner NedRailways.
With 472 stations and over 4,500 staff, Northern In 2005, we launched a second, weekly service Rail the largest franchise in the UK stretches for the three-month peak tourism season to meet more than 1,600 miles and serves major cities growth in demand.
Responding to continued including Manchester, York, Leeds, Newcastle strength in bookings, from March 2006 we will and Sunderland.
Since we began running this be operating a second weekly north-south return network, passengers have benefited from transcontinental service.
significant enhancements to performance, with train punctuality now at its highest level Urban transportation for four years.
Many developed economies, not least the UK, are looking for integrated transport strategies Our Merseyrail service which operates in and where there is a balance of different methods around Liverpool, with 66 stations and over 1,000 of travel, encouragement of wider use of public staff continues to go from strength to strength.
transport and up-to-date travel information.
This Its punctuality levels of over 92% are consistently shift is in response to road congestion and its amongst the best in the country.
In the January attendant economic and environmental costs.
2006 National Passenger Survey, Merseyrails overall satisfaction rating was 86%, six percentage Accordingly, we are offering our light rail points above the national average.
and traffic management operations in combination to provide integrated urban transport services.
In 2006, we will continue to build upon these high In addition, our capabilities in passenger service levels, look to improve our services further information systems, bus lane design and traffic and add new work.
Our customer for Merseyrail control centres further enhance the all-round Merseytravel is currently negotiating with service.
We can offer a complete range of light Network Rail to take over track maintenance in rail and traffic management services which the region, and we are optimistic that we will run customers can choose as a package or take this on its behalf.
22 Annual review and accounts 2005 UK North America We are a leader in the light rail market and our In March 2005 we announced our appointment Docklands Light Railway service DLR in London as preferred bidder, with SNC-Lavalin, for the is recognised for its quality both inside and outside operation and maintenance of a driverless, rapid the UK.
This was acknowledged in September rail network in Vancouver, Canada.
The contract 2005 when we picked up the Outstanding was due to start in late 2009.
Achievement title at the National Rail Awards one of the highest accolades in the UK rail industry.
We have since decided to change the nature of In 2005, DLR consistently beat stringent our involvement, and have agreed that SNC-Lavalin performance targets.
will be responsible for operations and maintenance.
Serco will now provide consultancy and support Our success in running the DLR since 1997 led to SNC-Lavalin during the development of the to us, in November, being named preferred bidder operational solution for the network and for the to continue operating the service.
We subsequently first four years of operation to the end of 2013. signed the contract in March 2006.
The new contract, valued at around 400m, will run for This is an excellent chance for us to demonstrate seven years with a possible two-year extension our skills and experience in light rail in the design subject to performance.
phase of a new metro system.
It will position us well for similar roles in other new transit systems.
The new contract will coincide with an exciting period for the DLR, not least because of the 2012 Middle East Olympics in London, much of which will be in areas We have strong links with the Middle East of the city served by our network.
2005 saw the transport market through our work in air traffic opening of the extension to City Airport, and further control.
This base, plus our skills and experience extensions to Woolwich and Stratford are due to in the UK and elsewhere, position us to expand into open in 2009 and 2010 respectively.
As the London urban transportation in the Middle Eastern market.
Organising Committee acknowledged, the DLR will Plans to create an urban network in Dubai are likely have a significant role to play once the Olympics to provide us with an opportunity that we are gets under way.
As anticipated, our Metrolink contract was put Air out to tender by our customer as part of a major Middle East reinvestment planned in this light rail network in We continue to build on our outstanding Manchester.
We are bidding for two contracts to track record in air traffic control ATC.
In April, operate and maintain the trams and maintain track we extended our ATC contract with Dubai Civil and stations.
We are also looking at a potential bid Aviation, which has been a Serco client for 45 for the Metro network in Tyne and Wear.
The extension is valued at 12m over two years.
We operate the National Traffic Control Centre which helps travellers in England plan and We signed a one-year extension to our contract complete their journeys by providing real-time at Bahrain Airport.
This contract is worth 2m traffic information, including alternative routing and positions Serco favourably in view of major advice, direct to the media and the public via expansion work due to be undertaken at a website and interactive phone service.
Achieving full implementation has taken longer than envisaged and we are now finalising the We also successfully re-bid a three-year flight implementation phase with our client, the information region contract with the General Civil Highways Agency.
Aviation Authority of the United Arab Emirates.
The contract includes the provision of ATC and Having been shortlisted for the Lorry Road User engineering services at the Emirates Area Control Charge project, we were disappointed when the Centre based in Abu Dhabi.
The contract is valued Government cancelled it.
However, the Government at around 12m.
has stated its general support for road pricing and is funding pilot studies for congestion charging Our aeronautical services business in the Middle in seven areas of the UK, which may create East is developing a niche providing air safety further opportunities.
management consultancy in several countries notably Qatar, Kuwait and Egypt allowing us to increasing our aviation footprint in the region.
com 23 Our Army Careers and Alumni Programme helps soldiers to prepare for civilian life Defence After 25 years in the military, the civilian world felt very new and the idea of finding a job seemed pretty scary.
However, the ACAP centre staff gave me so much confidence in my skills.
This is one of many endorsements from soldiers Among the vital services supplied are seminars who have benefited from the Army Careers and in resum writing, help with technology such as Alumni Programme ACAP, which Serco has job search software, and counselling on career managed on behalf of the US Department of exploration and interview preparation.
As with all our contracts, Serco is always looking for ACAP was established to give soldiers and their ways to improve the ACAP service.
Our innovations families the support they need to make a include a web-based management information successful transition to civilian life.
Over the last 15 system, which gives clients access to automated years, Serco's 205-strong team based at 53 centres tools, such as a resum writer, and helps staff and worldwide has provided job-seeking support clients to schedule activities such as workshops.
We have also developed a web-based client critique system that allows us to collect, collate, The ACAP contract is currently worth nearly and analyse client comments on our services to US$16m to Serco annually.
We successfully help us continue enhancing the programme to the rebid for the contract in 2005 an endorsement benefit of those taking part.
of the strong service we are delivering to a satisfied customer.
As one ACAP participant put it: Wow!
This programme really takes care of the soldier.
According to Sercos Steve Sultan, who has been involved with the programme since its launch: Serco employees provide a wide range of training, counselling, and assistance services to ACAP clients.
We have developed a sophisticated set of tools, processes and workshops to help soldiers catch the attention of suitable employers.
The emphasis is on giving individuals the skills and confidence to manage their own future.
com 25 Business review | operating performance | defence Our defence business enjoyed a successful year in 2005, growing by 52% to 565.6m, and representing 25% of our revenue.
Sercos involvement in the provision of public business pipeline, which could present us with services began in the UK defence sector in the opportunities for all of Sercos capabilities.
Since then, we have built a significant presence in this market, including contracts in Our long term partnership with the MoD at the Europe, Asia Pacific and North America.
Our North Defence Academy goes from strength to strength.
American presence was substantially bolstered by We operate the Joint Services Command and Staff the acquisition of RCI in March 2005.
College, an  centre of excellence for training military commanders.
Building UK on this partnership we were awarded a contract During 2005 our defence and aerospace business valued at around 400m to manage and integrate the has consolidated its position as the leading design and build of new premises for the academy, services partner to the UK Ministry of Defence and to integrate new IT systems supporting training MoD and further enhanced its key role in for the military leaders of tomorrow.
ensuring the operational readiness of Britains armed forces.
In addition, we continue to develop We were appointed preferred bidder for a our strategy and business in the non-UK defence strategic partnership with the Defence Science and and aerospace markets.
This contract, valued at around 400m over 15 years, will see us manage Sercos success comes as the UK Government the design and build of new facilities and provide seeks to achieve greater efficiencies in the IT and support services across the Dstl estate.
defence budget without compromising the Services ability to meet new and demanding challenges.
This Early in 2006, we were selected as preferred approach received prominence in the MoDs Defence bidder on a 15-year contract valued at around Industrial Strategy DIS, and its implementation 1bn to help sustain the operational capacity of the presents opportunities and challenges to the defence Royal Navy at Portsmouth, Devonport and the and aerospace industry.
Serco is well placed to Clyde.
Our unrivalled record in delivering marine deliver at both strategic and operational levels.
services over the past ten years played a major role in securing preferred bidder status, and we As a result of our thought leadership and strong are looking forward to strengthening our partnership track record in service integration and delivery, with the Defence Logistics Organisation and with we were recently invited to join the National Defence the Royal Navy as it strives to be a single, adaptable Industry Council, the high level MoD-industry forum and dynamic force wherever it is most needed.
chaired by the Secretary of State for Defence.
As the service company represented at this level, we We will continue to build on our constructive will bring our experience to bear on the implementation partnership with the MoD.
This means using our of the Governments objectives as set out in the DIS.
expertise in service integration to help our customer succeed with its ongoing change programme, Our position as a trusted partner to the and continuing to deliver excellent services that MoD was reflected in strong business growth enhance the capability of the UKs armed forces throughout the year and is driving a healthy new to meet new and emerging threats.
26 Annual review and accounts 2005 Europe The Department of Defenses Base Realignment In Germany we have been successful in securing and Closure programme, which commenced in all our support activities for the German Armed November 2005 and will run until 2011, will see Forces and have expanded our system integration a consolidation of the US Army and other armed activities for the supply of mobile systems.
There is forces bases and will result in shared resources a growing demand for mobile systems due to the and, in some instances, co-basing.
This is likely increasing out-of-area activities of the German to lead to a change in how support services are Armed Forces.
Our operations running the Army acquired and a shift towards an outsourcing model Battlefield Training Centre GUZ have been that is one of Sercos strengths.
Our Navy command, control, communication, North America computer, information and reconnaissance C4ISR In the US, 2005 proved to be a very successful engineering and installations business remains year in defence for Serco.
strong as we successfully rebid our electronics support measures contract in December for five In March, we completed the $215m acquisition more years.
The contract is valued at around $22m.
of RCI, significantly increasing our position in the worlds largest service contracting market.
Logistics continues its strong growth in support of The acquisition has been well received by our Department of Defense supply chain management clients and by industry and we aim to build on initiatives.
The major contributor to this growth was RCIs impressive presence.
our Price Fighter contract, under which we focus on streamlining parts and material procurement, We deliver personnel services, studies purchasing, inventorying and delivery through the and analysis support and recruitment processing central supply and support group for the Army, and services to the US Army.
The program has the Convergence program consolidating enterprise resulted in a good flow of task orders for us.
resource planning systems across the Navy.
We continue to perform strongly in human In Canada, the Serco team in Goose Bay received resources HR outsourcing as the fiscal trend positive news when the Department of National affecting Army HR outsourcing remains strong.
Defense announced a commitment to keep base We successfully rebid for the Army Career and funding available to 2010, including maintaining the Alumni Program ACAP, a socially important presence of 444 Squadron.
Serco provides all base endeavour that helps servicemen and women, operations services to this airbase.
civilians and their families make the transition from Army to civilian life.
Valued at around Asia Pacific $16m per year, we have held this contract In August, Serco Sodexho Defence our joint since 1990 an exceptional achievement venture with Sodexho Alliance renewed and in US defence contracting.
expanded its contract with the Australian Defence Force to provide garrison support services in the In November, we were awarded a contract to Sydney West South region of New South Wales.
provide 102 embedded recruiters for the Recruiting The contract is valued at AUS$200m to Serco over Command.
The base contract is for one year, with a term of up to nine years.
Each contract year could be valued at up to $5m.
Towards the end of the year we were awarded a contract to support the United States Army Community and Family Support Center with advocacy services for victims of domestic abuse and sexual assault.
The contract is valued at around $21m, over a period of up to two years and seven months.
The US Army is embarking on a six-year plan to boost its combat power by 40,000 troops while reducing the number of non-combat jobs.
We are well positioned to perform much of the non-combat workload previously performed by these troops.
com 27 NPL works to ensure the safe and effective measurement and delivery of radiotherapy for cancer patients Science The UK Governments National Physical Laboratory NPL has been at the cutting edge for nearly a century.
NPL is a world-leading measurement institute top three of more than fifty such institutes around the world and the Department of Trade and Industrys largest science and technology asset.
Serco has operated NPL since 1995.
Our teams the right people, we undertook a detailed roleof scientists and technicians are responsible for profiling exercise and competency-based driving forward measurement science, developing recruitment.
We put in place a smaller and simpler national standards and transferring those support structure.
And we are growing third-party capabilities to NPL's customers.
revenue as we work directly with industry to help it achieve its aims.
At the same time, we have Why is this necessary?
Because accurate maintained the standing of NPL's science and measurement enables UK industry to innovate reduced the cost to the DTI.
It is essential for international collaboration and fair trade.
It allows policy makers NPL's work in ensuring the safe and effective to make informed decisions and enables effective delivery of radiotherapy for cancer patients is just regulation.
And it delivers a vital contribution to one example of its contribution to improving quality health, safety, security and the environment.
Radiotherapy is one of the two most effective treatments for cancer.
But its success depends NPL's contribution to the UK economy and on delivering the right dose: too little and cancer our quality of life is valued at billions of pounds cells may survive, too much and healthy tissue each year.
When our initial contract came up for renewal NPL has led the world in developing new standards in 2003, our rebid proposed a major restructuring for measuring therapy-level doses, and in designing of NPL.
Our vision was for NPL to be the national and producing new equipment to perform those measurement institute that delivered the highest measurements.
And our scientists ensure those economic and social impact, through excellent standards are put into practice, calibrating and responsive science.
The DTI awarded us the radiotherapy equipment used to treat 140,000 contract for a further ten years - the longest period cancer patients each year, so that they receive the of secure funding in NPL's history.
treatment they need - truly bringing service to life.
Since winning the rebid we have reorganised NPL to maximise the laboratory's impact in productivity, regulation and innovation.
To ensure we employed www.
com 29 Business review | operating performance | science Serco is a leading private sector partner for the management of scientific and knowledge transfer activities.
Our success in 2005 saw our science revenue grow by 18% to 342.4m, representing 15% of our revenue.
Crown 30 Annual review and accounts 2005 Our strategy is to address the science market Technology in Bangor, North Wales.
This centre through three key offerings: whole agency will help develop a cluster of software businesses outsourcing, such as our contract at the National in the region.
Physical Laboratory NPL : knowledge transfer programmes such as our Envirowise contract We expect significant opportunities to arise from which deliver integrated communications focused the activities of the Nuclear Decommissioning on innovation and business support: and technical Authority.
This organisation was set up in April 2005 services, which are short-term projects drawing to decommission 20 civil nuclear sites.
With the first directly on our scientific and engineering expertise.
contract likely to be going to tender this year, our expertise at NPL, AWE and elsewhere in our UK science business means that we are strongly The key development in our science business positioned as the market opens up.
during 2005 was the expansion of our work at the Atomic Weapons Establishment AWE sites Our position has been further strengthened by at Aldermaston and Burghfield in the UK, which the transfer of around 60 staff, together with an we operate as a joint venture with BNFL and associated income stream, from BNFL Magnox Lockheed Martin.
The employees are predominantly highly qualified experts in the nuclear field.
The MoD oversees AWE and in July it announced plans to upgrade skills and facilities at the two Beyond the nuclear market, we are responding sites, in order to provide continued reliability to growing demand for knowledge transfer and and safety assurance.
As a result, it signed an innovation support services in central government amendment which significantly increased its and the regional development agencies.
The additional investment organically grows our business and is valued at Europe around 350m to Serco over three years, further The European Space Agency ESA provided Serco enhancing our position as a key player in the with two successful rebids in 2005.
rebid for ESAs Earth observation programme.
The contract is worth 14m over three years and will Our track record with the MoD creates a strong see a Serco-led consortium run a programme that platform for new business.
We secured a 13m provides remote-sensing data to scientific users.
contract to supply the MoDs Integrated Sensor Management System.
This intelligent network is Through this award, we have kept our position as designed to detect nuclear, chemical or biological the leading provider of support services to ESA.
attacks and the technology behind it gives us opportunities in other sectors.
We also won our rebid for engineering support at ESAs technical centre in the Netherlands.
In other business, we have cemented our This contract, which includes support for spacecraft reputation in the creation of innovation and design, mission simulation and scientific research, technology centres.
In a contract valued at 8m, is valued at around 20m over an expected fivewe have teamed up with the University of Wales year period.
to manage the Centre for Advanced Software www.
com 31 Business review | operating performance | private sector The strategic importance of the private sector has risen since our acquisition of ITNET at the start of 2005.
Our portfolio of blue-chip clients includes Microsoft, Airbus, GlaxoSmithKline, The Boots Company, BMW and Volkswagen.
32 Annual review and accounts 2005 Under International Financial Reporting Standards, In December, we were appointed preferred bidder we no longer report the private sector as a separate to extend our existing contract with the worlds segment.
Instead, its revenues are included in our largest speciality retail jeweller, Signet.
The new four main segments.
However, the private sector is contract will run for five years.
Serco provides a significant source of business for us.
In 2005 our service desk, desktop, batch processing and data revenues were 192m, an increase of 54%.
centre services to Signets stores infrastructure across the UK, a relationship which dates back UK and Europe to 1995.
Our relationship with Microsoft exemplifies our ability to extend the range of services we offer SAP remains a key focus for us and Germanto clients.
Initially, we provided the company with owned MAN B&W, which builds marine engines, conventional facilities management.
We now renewed our SAP facilities management support operate Microsofts global shared services from contract to the end of 2008.
In addition we won the its European Operations Centre in Dublin.
We also SAP application support contract for three years.
provide licensing, processing, documentation control, revenue and rebate recognition services.
North America In February, we were awarded a contract to provide We continue to grow our fleet and power administration and personal assistant services to distribution business with US companies such as senior Microsoft managers and directors.
Dayton Power & Light and several smaller utilities.
We renewed our contract with Airbus for integrated We have won further contracts to provide services to its manufacturing facility at Filton, UK.
computer-aided facilities management services This contract is valued at around 25m over five in the commercial and government sectors, years.
Serco already provides a fire and rescue expanding an existing client portfolio that includes service at Filton, and in April we were presented major lending institutions and financial services with the Top Airport Fire Service Award by the companies as well as state and local governments.
Prospects for private sector growth in North Our relationship with Starwood Group Hotels & America have been enhanced by the information Resorts Worldwide Inc. continues to thrive.
We technology and asset management capabilities were awarded the contract to supply maintenance that were added by the RCI acquisition.
and property services at the Westin Turnberry resort in Ayrshire and the Sheraton Grand Hotel and Spa Middle East in Edinburgh, Scotland.
We won a contract with The construction boom in the Middle East is driving Bank of Ireland to provide facilities management an exponential increase in demand for facilities services to its properties in Northern Ireland.
We provide Volkswagen Group UK awarded us a contract consultancy, operational advice and client support to provide support services to its five properties on all aspects of development and business, facility in Milton Keynes, including the group headquarters and property management and operations.
During and national learning centre.
2005, we provided consultancy services for several iconic Dubai projects including the Burj Dubai and We continue to build on our relationships with the Palm Jumeirah.
key customers in food and drinks manufacturing.
We won a three-year extension to our IT services contract with Coca-Cola Enterprises Ltd. Our dual data centres in Birmingham now host a UK-wide enterprise resource planning solution for Cadbury Schweppes and we have introduced a new service solution for the food services provider 3663.
It provides a common IT delivery platform at each of the clients sites, enhancing the efficiency of distribution systems.
