SEVERN TRENT PLC 18 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS OTHER BUSINESSES ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Total turnover for Other businesses Property Waters AMP4 programme.
It worked with comprising Systems, Property, Engineering Severn Trent Property undertook a strategic Yorkshire Water as a key member of its consultancy and Insurance in 2004 2005 review of its activities in 2004 2005 and Eastern Area Wastewater Capital Solution was 86.8 million, down 41.0%.
Profit decided to focus on wholly-owned sites, team, and it contributed to the Dublin Port before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation rather than expand its joint venture Tunnel Project in Ireland.
Its Health and and exceptional items was 4.8 million, operations.
As a result of this decision, the Safety Management System was certified down 12.7% on the previous year.
Loss company sold its 51% interest in Thorpe to the OHSAS 18001 standard.
before interest and tax was 8.9 million Park, Leeds to its joint venture partners, profit 8.2 million.
The company After a review of the business towards the has now relinquished all interest in the end of 2004 2005, the decision was taken Systems Thorpe Park office park, although it retains that the best way forward for Haswell was to The Systems group comprises two main interests in peripheral sites.
limit its work to Severn Trent Water projects.
Aseriti These already accounted for approximately provides IT services and solutions for water, At Daventry International Rail Freight 70% of turnover in 2004 2005.
Therefore, gas and electricity utilities worldwide.
Its Terminal, planning permission has now been once existing projects have been completed, principal product is the CIS-Open Vision CIS granted for a further 2 million square feet Haswell will cease trading with external customer information and billing system.
and work continues on infrastructure design clients, and it will eventually be absorbed and costings.
Marketing of the site will begin into Severn Trent Water.
In Australia, Aseritis CIS continues to be the in 2005 2006, with the aim of securing cornerstone application for five major energy substantial pre-lettings before building work Insurance utilities operating in a highly competitive starts in 2006.
Derwent Insurance, Severn Trents captive deregulated market.
insurer, provides insurance cover to Severn The Tournament Fields office scheme at Trent group companies.
In 2004 2005 Aseriti implemented CIS Warwick progressed well during the year.
The at Severn Trent Water, successfully migrating principal infrastructure has been completed, the water companys unmetered customers.
and marketing of the site is underway.
The system was used to produce annual Discussions are in hand with a number of bills for over 3 million accounts in February potential occupiers which could lead to March 2005. building work starting in 2005 2006.
During the year Aseriti commenced a plan In Birmingham a site of 90 acres owned by to re-focus its activities.
It has curtailed its Severn Trent Water has been allocated for operations in the US and in the UK it has employment use, and an outline planning ceased providing IT services to external application has been submitted.
Severn customers and will limit this work to Severn Trent Property is hopeful that consent for Trent Water and other group companies.
development will be granted shortly, which It will continue to market CIS from the UK.
will lead to the project being taken over by Severn Trent Property.
Worksuite is the work management business of the Systems group, and does much of Engineering its business in North America.
The business Charles Haswell & Partners is Severn Trents made a number of sales to blue-chip utilities engineering consultancy business, providing in 2004 2005 and is a market leader in expertise in a variety of engineering and its field.
Despite this, 2004 2005 was a environmental disciplines.
difficult trading year, and profits were below expectations.
Certain licence sales made Haswell made a major contribution to the in 2004 2005 are contingent upon Worksuite successful delivery of Severn Trent Waters client activities, and therefore revenue capital programme for 2004 2005.
It was recognition for these sales will not occur also appointed as one of the three consulting until 2005 2006. engineers that will work on Severn Trent FIND OUT MORE www.
