Business review TNS is the worlds second largest market information group, the only pure play market information group with a full listing on the London Stock Exchange.
We employ more than 13,000 people in over 70 countries around the world.
Key performance data Through a combination of organic improvement and acquisitions, TNS has delivered a strong record of financial growth.
2004-2005: As reported under IFRS, before goodwill impairment, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share based payments, exceptional pension credit, integration costs and deferred tax on goodwill.
Top 10 market information companies demand from these less traditional bigger processing power, has enabled increase in share of growing market users of market information continues faster delivery of increasing amounts of 2004 to grow around the world.
53% $21.5 bn Example of TNS response: Developed Examples of TNS response: 2000 expertise in the Technology sector.
Establishment of internet access panels 41% $15.5 bn and TNSInfo.
Use of state-of-the art bar Outsourcing of analysis and supplier code scanning technology for consumer rationalisation Global market panels.
The move to outsource data collection is Top ten market information companies Source: ESOMAR industry reports & TNS estimates mostly complete.
The trend now is for Market segmentation and rapid change clients to outsource the analysis of that Markets and customer loyalties are data.
A demand for increasingly moving faster than ever before and Growth drivers complex analysis, and the associated becoming more complex and difficult to Through the second half of the 1990s, investment in software and expertise, predict, leading to increased reliance on the global market information industry is likely to lead to acceleration in this market information.
With a reduction grew at an estimated compound rate of trend.
This is linked to a rationalisation in product life cycles, new products 8-9 per cent per year.
While the rate of of suppliers used by major multihave less time to prove themselves.
growth slowed with the global national organisations.
As clients look Example of TNS response: Launch of economic cycle in the early 2000s, longto market information companies for new sales forecasting offering.
term growth potential is good, and is increasingly sophisticated analysis, they Impact of media fragmentation thought by commentators to be ahead are seeking to develop partnership Media fragmentation is fuelling demand of that of the advertising industry and of relationships with the few companies for research on brand values, brand GDP.
These developments are driven by that have the scale and expertise to meet power and customer brand perception, a number of factors.
as well as a need for quantitative Example of TNS response: Move to global Globalisation reasoning to support investment in partnerships and Areas of Expertise.
The main driver of industry growth in advertising.
New services are required the 1990s, as clients extended their Technology to measure digital media.
operations and, therefore, their market Use of the internet for data collection Examples of TNS response: Development information requirements, into and delivery has dramatically shortened of new brand equity framework.
As the major multilead times.
Availability of broadband to services to measure and analyse digital nationals take an increasingly global clients and respondents, combined with TV viewing.
view of their marketing, they look for Market information top ten high-quality multi-country information Rank Company Quoted holding company 2005 revenue $m collected and delivered using consistent 1 ACNielsen Nielsen Media VNU 3535 methodology.
Remains a key growth 2 TNS Taylor Nelson Sofres 1818 driver.
3 IMS IMS Health 1755 Example of TNS response: Established 4 Kantar Group IIC WPP Group 1475 consumer panels across Asia.
5 GfK GfK Group 1150 New sectors 6 Ipsos Ipsos 883 7 Synovate Aegis 601 The trend of deregulation in mature 8 IRI 555 markets brought new clients, as 9 Westat 390 industries that had previously been 10 Arbitron Arbitron 310 dominated by monopolies were opened Source: Company announcements, translated by TNS at average rates up to competition.
This is now more of 2004 revenue 2005 figure not available at date of this report a trend in emerging markets but the sixth sense of business 19 Our markets Market segmentation Opportunities and threats internet has brought down contract The market information industry Opportunities prices.
We believe the evidence of the comprises two main types of research.
Recent market developments provide US where use of the internet is most significant opportunities to market developed, representing approximately Syndicated services information companies and mostly 30 per cent of the custom market The information is collected on a favour the major industry players, such indicates that this leads to an increase in regular basis, owned by the research as TNS.
the volume of research commissioned provider and sold to multiple clients.
Growing demand for global services by clients.
Key attributes are: Increasing demand in emerging must-have data that provides Clients are tending to spend a markets multi-national and local measure of the market proportion of the budget savings made Move to preferred supplier higher barriers to entry higher through use of internet data collection relationships margin on increased value added analysis and Move towards advisory services long-term contracts consultation.
New products and services needed in steady growth rates fast-changing markets Data collection using the internet still mainly consumer and media.
Increase in demand for continuous represents less than 5 per cent of the Custom research tracking European market.
Commissioned and owned by the Media fragmentation increased There is a distinction between managed client, ranging from one-off, ad hoc reliance on market information access panels such as the TNS panel, studies to multi-year, continuous Demand for ROI information for which provide higher quality of data market tracking.
and analytics, and those newer panels, Ad hoc custom Threats often list-based, that operate at the more discretionary To the major players, such as TNS.
commodity end of the market.
It is lower competitive barriers Client consolidation becoming apparent that quality and traditionally lower margin but with Impact of economic slowdown on integrity of data remain important to potential to improve custom research spend clients and some of the newer entrants greater potential growth in good Niche boutique players to the market are being forced to review economic environment Pricing pressure and increased their business models to deal with this increasing trend towards value added involvement of procurement quality issue.
TNS syndicated custom value of normative databases.
research split 2005 % Some developments, such as digital Continuous tracking broadcasting, industry consolidation, long-term or repeat contracts proliferation of client-owned databases growing importance of multiand new technologies, represent both 25 national projects.
Impact of the internet 60 15 Along with other developments in technology, the internet allows market information companies to collect and deliver increased amounts of Syndicated information and at a faster pace.
The Ad hoc custom reduced cost in data collection via the Continuous custom 20 TNS annual report 2005 TNS strategy and structure Client needs in market information are changing.
TNS has evolved its strategy and structure to meet that change.
TNS strategic goal is to be recognised as Worldpanel Media Intelligence the global leader in delivering value TNS Worldpanel provides continuous TNS Media Intelligence is dedicated to added information and insights that measurement and analysis of consumer worldwide media analysis: providing help our clients to make more effective purchasing and usage behaviour.
Clients advertising expenditure tracking, decisions.
include both global and local consumer evaluation and consultative services for packaged companies, private label broadcast, internet and print media, in The strategy is based on four core manufacturers, retailers, fresh food addition to news monitoring and principles: suppliers, market analysts and other creative tracking capabilities.
Intelligence clients include media Service excellence and cost efficiency owners, advertising agencies, Data is collected using technology Expertise and innovation advertisers, public relations firms, matched to the development of each People development.
broadcasters, publishers, government market, including bar code and till The groups structure and TNS senior departments and NGOs, as well as receipt scanners, internet, SMS text leadership team reflect the new strategy.
That data is then interrogated and interpreted by our TNS Media Intelligence is a worldSyndicated services consumer panel specialists around the leading provider of strategic advertising TNS has three major syndicated world, in order to provide clients with intelligence, operating in 23 countries services, each with a market leading essential insights into consumer with more than 16,000 clients.
It is the position, that frequently provide the behaviour and what the implications market leader in the US and France, benchmark measurement and industry are for marketing strategies, promotion with significant operations throughout standard in their markets.
maintains its leading position through innovation and by continuing to invest in all three areas.
Senior Leadership team in 2006 reflects new strategy Chief Executive David Lowden Custom business Syndicated business Global Clients and Regional Custom Worldpanel Strategic Finance Sectors Judith Passingham Development and Andy Boland Pedro Ros Marketing John Abraham Human Resources and Internal Media Intelligence Communications JeanMichel Portier Mike Petch Legal Paul Wright TRAM Mike Gorton IT Tony Barbosa the sixth sense of business 21 TNS strategy and structure Revenue split by region 2005 % TV and Radio Audience With vast experience and breadth of Measurement knowledge in the Consumer sector and TNS systems are used to measure and using all of our Areas of Expertise, TNS analyse television viewing and radio advises clients in this sector on key 23 listening habits for broadcasters, issues affecting their businesses advertising agencies and platform through the whole product lifecycle, 12 operators in 28 countries around the from concept screening, through to 65 world.
Value added analysis is delivered customer satisfaction.
to clients through the TNS proprietary One such issue in the Consumer sector software, InfoSys, which is now used is innovation management.
Europe changing markets, with shortening North America Audiences are measured using the latest product lifecycles, manufacturers ALM household and metering technology.
are constantly challenged to innovate As TV and radio are increasingly and develop new brands.
Using shifting to digital broadcast, TNS is at our expertise in New Product the forefront of this trend with both its Development, with tools such as Automotive use of personal measurement, through InnoSuite, TNS supports innovation TNS is the leading provider of Arbitron Portable People Meters management, from early creativity to automotive market information, SM PPM, and Return Path technology measuring return on launch addressing the complex research needs from digital set top boxes.
of major automotive manufacturers, component suppliers, oil companies Financial Services TNS custom business and dealership and repair specialists Within the Financial Services sector, Regions worldwide.
TNS offers a complete TNS distinguishes itself by offering a TNS is the worlds largest custom portfolio of research services including truly global breadth of services.
As the research company, with operations advertising and brand tracking, car financial services industry has become organised around three regions, which clinics, dealer and customer satisfaction increasingly international, TNS has drive growth in client relationships in research and vehicle quality surveys.
emphasised this advantage by the local markets and focus on service creation of a Financial Services practice The unparalleled global presence of TNS excellence and cost efficiency.
as one of our global sectors.
is a key strength for the Automotive Europe sector.
The ability to see the bigger North America TNS understands the commercial issues picture and also understand local Asia Pacific-Latin America-Middle facing the Financial Services sector market needs, when coordinating East & Africa ALM.
commoditisation and the need for brand international projects in up to 50 differentiation, the impact of Global clients and sectors countries in Europe, the Americas, Asia technology, increased regulatory Supporting the regions in custom Pacific, the Middle East and Africa, is pressure and empowerment of research, TNS sector operations are highly valued by clients.
TNS runs custom research organised to focus on servicing multiprojects such as global brand health national clients, through our specialist Consumer programmes and syndicated services, as knowledge in their business sectors.
TNS is the worlds leading provider of well as advising financial services clients Within each specialist sector, dedicated custom research to the consumer sector, on current issues such as online theft global account teams exist to form and working with major consumer goods and identity fraud.
develop strong partnerships with major companies and retailers around the clients, in order to provide them with world.
TNS now manages this area as more value added business insights.
one of our specialist global sectors.
22 TNS annual report 2005 TNS Financial Services works with the We tell clients about the major trends in Global operations worlds leading banks, building opinion: how the public is feeling about Clients require that the data on which societies, insurance companies, asset its elected leaders and their policies.
We TNS recommendations are based be management companies and regulatory predict what the outcomes of any up collected efficiently and to a high bodies, as well as lawyers and and coming elections are likely to be and quality standard.
Within the regional accountancy firms.
We have over 25 provide analyses of society for policy businesses, a Global Operations group years dedicated sector experience and makers and for academic research.
exists to ensure that this takes place our clients value the specialist knowthrough: We combine years of local expertise ledge and strategic guidance we deliver.
standardised data collection systems into a comprehensive global view, use of online managed access panels Healthcare applying strict technical standards improved utilisation of call centres TNS provides consistent, global through high-quality services, offshoring of data processing.
advisory market research in the complemented by the wide suite of TNS Healthcare sector: expertise to support business solutions, especially adapted new product introductions, solutions to polling and social research.
Worldwide online research spending for brand and sales force optimisation $bn Technology and assessment of promotional 2.0 TNS works with software and hardware effectiveness.
Clients are the global companies, mobile phone and 1.6 pharmaceutical companies, microchip manufacturers, network 1.5 biotechnology, medical device and 1.3 operators, as well as content and supply companies, as well as advertising internet service providers on a global 1.0 agencies.
TNS Technology specialists 0.8 TNS provides the full range of advanced provide insights and recommendations 0.6 0.4 research capabilities throughout the on key strategic marketing objectives: 0.5 sectors product life cycle, including for example, measuring demand for pre-launch landscaping, market new applications, such as mobile TV.
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005e assessment, new product development, Constantly evolving markets create Source: Inside Research September 2005 positioning and segmentation, message opportunities in the Technology sector.
creation, pricing and reimbursement, As IT, telecoms, media and forecasting, attitude and awareness entertainment continue to converge, measurement and post-launch tracking.
TNS advises organisations on where TNS Healthcare delivers insights across their own revenue opportunities lie.
stakeholder groups, including And as the Technology sector becomes TNS offshore research physicians, patients and consumers that increasingly focused on service, TNS is centre in India help companies anticipate and also helping clients understand what is ORSC employs over 300 people, understand their markets and react with driving customer satisfaction, in order who provide a range of services more informed, strategic decisions.
to help them reduce churn and to TNS group companies.
These maximise return on their investment.
Polling & Social services include data processing, We believe TNS to be the worlds technical support, IT helpdesk, largest provider of polling and social software development, questionnaire research services.
Clients include public scripting, charting reporting and sector organisations, non-governmental online coding.
organisations and the news media.
the sixth sense of business 23 TNS strategy and structure Use of the internet in the TNS US Managed access panels TNS has what it considers to be the access panel Access panels are pre-recruited samples highest-quality managed internet access of respondents who have agreed to panel in the US, with over three million 100 participate in market research surveys.
In 2005, TNS rolled out its 22 30 39 Use of access panels in market research European access panel in six major 80 49 8 59 61 results in more efficient surveys and markets and launched its pan-regional 7 60 quicker results for clients.
TNS believes access panel in Asia Pacific.
12 that using managed internet access 18 40 70 panels is a crucial part of efficient and 63 21 high-quality data collection.
49 29 20 33 TNS' approach is to operate highManaged 20 10 quality managed access panels that access panels 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 achieve both greater cost-efficiency and cost efficiency also higher quality results due to: quality Mail controls that protect respondent Telephone usage rates and reduce churn Internet higher co-operation rates and more Source: TNS estimates representative samples more flexible and precise sample selection that allows for more complex and precise surveys.
TNSInfo As well as employing the internet to Rapid growth in use of TNSInfo collect information, TNS is also at the forefront in the use of technology to deliver information to clients.
Number of users Number of portals 000s TNSInfo is the groups online client 29,911 1,495 30 30 1500 portal, allowing clients access to all of their marketing information instantly 25 25 1200 and from one single source.
It delivers 1,029 20 20 customised information to relevant 900 people within the client organisation 15 15 12,897 and allows them to analyse data and 573 600 make immediate business decisions.
10 10 TNSInfo is a crucial part of the TNS 275 4,660 300 5 5 response to client demand for up-to- 1,350 20 7 date insights and has been a key driver 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 in helping to win new business.
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 24 TNS annual report 2005 Areas of Expertise of each region, so that we deliver to As clients look for more insight and clients consistently high quality of analysis from market information, one recommendations across TNS global Innovative new of the ways in which TNS meets that network and in all industry sectors.
approach to demand is through our focus on four Together, the four Areas of Expertise brand and ad main Areas of Expertise in custom encompass each stage of the research.
Each of the Areas of Expertise marketing cycle.
is embedded within the service offering New product development Brand and Advertising research Idea generation Advertising pre-testing Concept testing Advertising tracking Product testing Brand tracking Marketing mix optimisation Brand equity measurement Sales forecasting Primary business solutions AdEval Primary business solutions The Conversion Model Innosuite MarketWhys VISIT Virtual In Store Interactive Testing Positioning and Segmentation Stakeholder management research incorporating Customer satisfaction retention Motivational research Internal service quality Market structure Employee commitment Needs segmentation Corporate reputation Brand positioning Primary business solution Brand portfolio management TRI M Primary business solution Needscope the sixth sense of business 25 Core principle original Expertise and innovation New products and services to deliver insight to clients Innovation forums harness best ideas from around group Enhanced knowledge management TNS aims to be the industry thought leader the sixth sense of business 27
