06 Operating review Our business Since the sale of Elliott in the first half of 2005, Davis has become a focused European textile maintenance business with leading positions in most of the countries in which we operate.
As a focused business we are more able to mobilise our resources to drive our strategies in our core areas of expertise.
The strength of our Sunlight business in the UK and our business in Eire enables us to offer a leading service to our customers throughout each country across all our product lines.
We have a strong base in Scandinavia, Northern and Central Europe through the Berendsen business, which we acquired in 2002, and this provides an excellent platform for expansion of our service range to existing markets and for geographical expansion into other markets by organic means or through acquisition.
We are also working on the opportunities that are emerging from the wider membership of the European Union.
In most of the markets in which we operate, our customers have realised the benefits of outsourcing over many years and the outsourced service model is now well established.
However, we continue to innovate and improve the service value to our customers and to move the focus from Roger Dye Chief Executive products to providing service solutions.
In this way, we work with our customers to try to ensure that we obtain a fair recovery of the costs of providing that service.
Our services Through our Sunlight business in the UK, our Spring Grove business in Ireland and Berendsen in Continental Europe, we are a leading provider of textile maintenance services to the hotel and leisure, healthcare, commercial, industrial and public sectors through the provision of flat linen, workwear garments, mats and maintenance products for facilities.
We are primarily a textile rental business where we acquire and own the flat linen or garments and rent these to customers on service rental contracts of varying lengths.
We are responsible for laundry services as well as the repair, maintenance and replacement of the textiles when required.
This is a logistically complex business which requires experienced management and strong systems to operate successfully on a large scale.
In our hotel and restaurant division we provide flat linen including bed linen, tablecloths, napkins as well as towels.
We also provide workwear for hotel and restaurant staff including chefwear.
We provide systems and processes for managing these textiles within our customers facilities.
For our healthcare customers, we provide linen rental together with management systems for ward linen and other patient related products.
In addition, we have a comprehensive sterile textile and procedure pack rental service for use in the operating theatre, which is serviced from specialist clean room operations.
We continue to expand the range of products and services we offer to the sector.
Our workwear business provides light and heavy duty workwear for the different industrial and service sectors, including safety clothing such as reflective high visibility wear.
We also provide services to the public sector.
Increasing legislation in health and safety as well as upgrades to best manufacturing practice are positive drivers in this important sector of our business.
Our facilities range of products and services are designed to improve hygiene and remove dampness and dirt from the workplace, hotels and restaurants.
This range includes washroom services as well as industrial wipers and mats.
Market overview Our business is robust but faces challenges.
Our markets are competitive and recovery of cost increases is difficult to a differing degree in most territories: throughout the business we have seen significant increases in our energy costs which affect both processing and distribution operations.
Our management teams are working hard to drive for efficiencies that can mitigate the overall impact of these cost increases.
These conditions are not new, however, and we have experienced management teams that have encountered them before.
Our focus on operational excellence and service delivery to our customers has resulted in strong reputations in our markets for our Sunlight, Spring Grove and Berendsen businesses.
This creates opportunities to win new business contracts while our strategy of making targeted bolt-on acquisitions with good leverage into our existing operations is able to deliver margin improvement and additional value for shareholders.
Our Sunlight business Our Sunlight business is a market leader serving hotels and restaurants, healthcare, commercial and public sectors with flat linens and garments.
It operates through 40 plants in the UK and four in Ireland operating as Spring Grove Services and serves over 50,000 customers with over 7,800 employees.
The hotel market in the UK continues to grow and offers further volume opportunities for the future.
But the nature of the market, with its concentration on large hotel groups, who have themselves been subject to merger and takeover activity in recent years, creates a difficult pricing environment.
Our strategy is to seek to improve and innovate our service to enhance pricing wherever possible and to continue to drive operational efficiency so that we are the lowest cost provider of service.
Sunlight is the largest service provider to the healthcare market in the UK.
We continue to develop additional services into this market, which offers opportunities for volume growth as a large proportion of the market remains with NHS Trusts and has not yet been outsourced.
This market demands significant experience to The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005 Leading Our Sunlight and Berendsen businesses have excellent reputations in their markets which create opportunities to win new business and to make targeted bolt-on acquisitions.
Healthcare products range from standard bed linen to technically complex surgical textiles.
Hotel linen improvements can help our customers reduce the time Workwear is increasingly used in a wide variety of sectors.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005 08 Operating review Our business continued provide the breadth of service at the quality standards required by the NHS Trusts.
The market is based on tendered contracts with prices indexed during the period of the contract.
Prices on re-tendering are thus rebased to prevailing market rates and are impacted by the actions of central government.
The UK workwear market continues to follow the move out of employment in the industrial sector towards the service economy with cleaner working conditions.
It is a market that continues to provide service opportunities, however, with a significant proportion of new accounts sold each year being new to workwear rental.
We continue to reposition our resources and to invest in our sales teams in what is essentially a sales driven business.
The move from heavier soiled industrial garments to lighter garments for the service sector, however, makes this an increasingly price competitive market where margins remain under pressure.
Our Berendsen business Our Berendsen business in Continental Europe provides textile maintenance services in ten countries with 71 plants employing around 7,000 people.
We are strong in Scandinavia, in particular in Sweden and Denmark where we have a broad range of services to hotels and restaurants, hospitals, commercial, industrial and public sectors.
We provide flat linen as well as garment rental and facilities products in these territories.
We have a growing business in Norway with a focus on garment and facilities business, having significantly restructured our flat linen operations in recent years.
In Germany we have a strong position providing service primarily to the healthcare sector with a relatively small position in the garment market and in the Netherlands we have a leading position in garment services.
We have a fast growing business in Poland, where we have operated for some ten years and are a leading market provider in the rental workwear and mats sectors.
In late 2005, we entered the Finnish market through the purchase of two local businesses.
In addition, we have our own garment manufacturing based in Estonia and a company selling garment and personal protection equipment, as well as operating retail shops in Sweden.
Our hotels and restaurant business for Continental Europe is focused on Scandinavia.
As a business sector, we expect that volumes will grow long term and we will drive further operational improvements through the additional volume.
However, this is a market that has excess capacity generally and significant improvement in margins is challenging to achieve.
The healthcare sector offers long-term growth with limited volume fluctuation and wide product ranges in Scandinavia where we have completed a significant restructuring since the acquisition of Berendsen in 2002.
In Germany and Austria we have a good market position in the regions in which we operate but the business in Germany has been under significant pressure as a result of the government policy to reduce healthcare costs.
In 2005 we started our operational and structural improvements in Germany by reducing staffing levels at our plant near Hamburg and redistributing volumes to other plants.
Our workwear business is well established in Scandinavia and the Netherlands.
Although these markets have been traditionally based on manufacturing, where employment levels are in decline, they continue to offer opportunities to move into new sectors.
Our business in Poland is growing strongly.
We have a relatively small position in the German workwear market.
Our facilities business is well established and profitable.
We have a strong position in our mats business in Denmark, Sweden and Norway and we continue to invest in this sector of our business with recent new service introductions.
Customer markets are highly fragmented it is a sales driven business and consequently we continue to invest in our sales force.
Breadth and depth of our European operations Hotels and Healthcare Workwear Facilities Sales production restaurants UK Eire France Denmark Sweden Norway Germany Austria Netherlands Poland Estonia Finland The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005
