Business review Introduction Build on our networked IT services capability British Telecommunications plc is a wholly owned Our strategy in the networked IT services market is to subsidiary of BT Group plc and is BT Group plcs principal reinforce BTs position as a global player capable of trading subsidiary.
competing with the worlds best in selected growth BT Group plc is the listed holding company for an markets.
Our portfolio of services covers a number of key integrated group of businesses that provide voice and areas including IP Internet Protocol infrastructure, CRM data services in the UK and elsewhere in Europe, the customer relationship management, security, Americas and the Asia Pacic Region.
British applications, managed mobility, hosting and outsourcing.
Telecommunications plc holds virtually all businesses and assets of the BT group.
Networked IT services for major corporate customers Our aim is to increase shareholder value through As business applications are increasingly being networked, service excellence, an effective brand, our large-scale networks are seen as increasingly vital to productivity and networks and our existing customer base, and also competitive advantage.
through innovation in products, services and solutions.
We aim to deliver networked IT services globally to Our principal activities include networked IT services: large business customers and other organisations local, national and international telecommunications including the public and government sectors, giving services: and higher-value broadband and internet them the communications tools they need for productivity products and services.
BT consists principally of three lines of business: In the 2005 financial year, we secured networked IT BT Retail, BT Wholesale and BT Global Services.
services orders worth more than 7 billion.
BT Retail and BT Wholesale operate almost entirely within the UK, addressing the consumer, business and Networked IT services for wholesale customers wholesale markets, and offer a broad spectrum of We believe that the convergence of IT and communications products and services.
communications technologies creates commercial BT Global Services addresses the networked IT opportunities for communications providers, and our services needs of multi-site organisations including major strategy is to enable these providers to take full companies with significant global requirements and large advantage of such opportunities.
organisations in target local markets.
We have a long and successful tradition of delivering network-based connectivity to the carrier and Group strategy intermediate telecommunications markets throughout the Our strategy is to build long-term partnerships with our UK, and have developed value-enhancing services and customers.
With their support, we aim to maximise the solutions.
potential of our traditional business through a combination of enhanced quality of service, creative Deliver on broadband marketing, innovative pricing and cost efficiency while In the 2005 financial year, we continued our drive to pursuing profitable growth by migrating our customers to enhance the awareness, availability and attractiveness of new wave products and services such as networked IT broadband and we are on target to bring broadband to services, broadband, mobility and managed services.
exchanges serving 99.6% of UK homes and businesses by We are also exploring new ways of doing business the summer of 2005.
The UK now has the most extensive and have, for example, set up a number of ventures to broadband network of all the countries in the G7 Group, deliver new revenue streams by taking an innovative and according to telecommunications analyst Ovum.
entrepreneurial approach to our core business.
We believe that the key issues in todays broadband We have eight strategic imperatives, five of which are markets are speed and price, but that, going forward, focused on generating new wave revenues, defending applications will increasingly prove to be a competitive revenue in traditional markets and operating with differentiator.
maximum efficiency: & build on our networked IT services capability Broadband for wholesale customers & deliver on broadband In early April 2005, we reached our target of five million & create convergent mobility solutions broadband lines, one year ahead of schedule.
Since we & defend our traditional business vigorously first announced the target, take-up has continued to & drive for cost leadership.
accelerate whereas it took a year to reach our first These are underpinned by three further imperatives: million, the fifth million took just four months.
Since & keep a relentless focus on improving customer September 2004, we have been connecting someone to satisfaction broadband every ten seconds of every day.
In total, 4,419 & transform our network for the twenty-first century exchanges had been upgraded by the end of the 2005 & motivate our people and live the BT values.
financial year, reaching almost 97% of the UKs homes and businesses.
Broadband is now one of the fastest growing consumer products of all time.
2British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Broadband for consumers However, the measurement of call minutes is less As at 31 March 2005, in the highly competitive retail important to BT as customer take-up of pricing packages market, our share of consumer and business DSL continues and we actively encourage the migration of broadband connections in the UK was 36% 1.75 million customers to new wave services such as broadband.
BT is the UKs leading service provider of broadband, Drive for cost leadership offering a family of broadband packages designed to meet We remain focused on financial discipline and our cost the diverse needs of our customers.
Key packages include efficiency programmes achieved savings of around 400 BT Broadband Basic and BT Broadband which offer rapid, million in the year.
This has enabled us to invest in always-on internet access: BT Yahoo!
Broadband which growing our new wave activities.
We aim to deliver at also provides a fuller range of benets, including multiple least 300 million to 400 million of savings in each of email addresses, virus protection, personalised music, the next three years.
parental controls, protection against unsolicited email and We aim to deliver this by focusing on the cost of evolving applications and content: and BT Communicator failure, complexity and duplication and by working with Yahoo!
For example, at 31 March 2005 we had 6.2 million on-line relationships with customers through Broadband for business customers bt.
com and almost two million customers receiving e-bills.
We believe that the introduction of 2Mbit s ADSL We continue to benchmark ourselves against the best in broadband as standard will help business customers the industry and set targets accordingly.
maximise the major opportunities offered by online trading and teleworking.
Keep a relentless focus on improving customer BT Business Broadband remained the leading ISP for satisfaction SMEs in the UK.
At the end of the 2005 financial year, we Reducing customer dissatisfaction by 25% a year over had over 340,000 BT Business Broadband customers and three years, on a compound annual basis, to the 2005 were adding 250 a day.
Almost 60% opt for such valuefinancial year was a key target in our drive to deliver the added services as the Internet Security Pack and the highest levels of customer satisfaction.
In the 2005 Internet Business Pack.
financial year, for the third year in a row, all lines of business reduced customer dissatisfaction levels.
This Create convergent mobility solutions result is based on quantitative customer research In a convergent world, individuals and businesses conducted by independent external agencies and increasingly need to connect and communicate whenever represents a group-wide reduction of 23% on a compound and wherever they happen to be, using whatever devices annual basis over the past three years.
Our aim is to offer all our customers the right Transform our network for the twenty-first century combination of the quality, reliability, cost advantages Our UK network today and bandwidth associated with xed-line communications, BT has the most comprehensive communications network and the convenience, personalisation and mobility in the UK, with 684 local and 135 trunk processor units, associated with mobile communications.
more than 121 million kilometres of copper wire and more In the 2005 financial year, we launched BT Mobile as than seven million kilometres of optical bre, and we have an MVNO mobile virtual network operator running over the most extensive IP backbone network in the UK.
Becoming an MVNO is network services we provide include Frame Relay, ATM fundamental to building our mobility customer base, asynchronous transfer mode and IPVPN.
driving the wireless broadband market and developing and delivering compelling convergence propositions and Our global reach one converged customer experience.
BT has one of the broadest IP-enabled networks in Europe and our network-based services extend to and across Defend our traditional business vigorously North and South America and the Asia Pacic region, and We face continued challenges in our traditional markets are delivered locally through interconnect and supply as a result of regulatory intervention, competition and a agreements with regional carriers.
shift in our customers buying patterns, as we provide As at 31 March 2005, our agship MPLS multithem with higher-specication, high-value, new wave protocol label switching product provides coverage and products.
support to 72 countries from over 1,000 points of Total xed-to-xed voice call minutes in the UK presence.
MPLS revenues grew by 48% during the 2005 market as a whole declined by 3% in the 2005 financial financial year.
This was driven by customers making use of Global customer service is provided via service and alternatives such as mobile calls, email, instant network management centres around the world, 24 hours messaging, corporate IPVPNs and VOIP.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 3 Transforming our networks, systems and services for Regulation in the UK the twenty-first century It is our policy to be fully compliant with the regulatory Our 21CN 21st century network programme will lead to framework in which we operate.
During the 2005 financial the simplication of BTs complex multiple networks, year, we continued to strengthen our compliance making it easier for us, and other operators who activities and, in addition, we have worked closely with interconnect with BTs network, to deliver compelling compliance professionals in the telecommunications and converged services.
other regulated industries in the UK to establish best The 21CN programme has three broad goals: practice.
We have been in contact with European & to enhance the service experience, exibility and telecommunications companies with the intention of value we provide to all our customers: sharing ideas and best practice and bringing & to accelerate the delivery of innovative new products improvements to the UK market.
Our compliance policy and services to market: and remains focused on ensuring that we continue to meet & to reduce costs radically.
the obligations imposed by, or under, the UKs Technical trials began in the 2005 financial year.
For Communications Act 2003 the Communications Act and example, we launched a voice transformation trial, the Competition Act 1998 the Competition Act while moving voice trafc from the traditional PSTN public competing fairly and vigorously within the rules.
switched telecommunications network onto a IP network.
We made significant progress towards completing Ofcom the detailed technical and architectural designs to support The UK regulatory environment changed materially in July the implementation of 21CN.
2003, when the Communications Act came into force, bringing in a new regulator, the Ofce of Communications Motivate our people and live the BT values Ofcom, and a new regulatory framework for electronic Our customers have a right to expect that we will communications networks and services.
understand their needs and live our brand values.
This Ofcom was set up as a result of the increasing presents the 102,100 people employed by BT at 31 March convergence between telecommunications, broadcasting 2005 with opportunities to develop innovative solutions, and radio, to provide a single, seamless approach to generate new business, drive efficiencies, and experience regulation across the whole converging marketplace.
amalgamated the roles of five former regulatory agencies: Our vision is of high-performing, engaged and the Director General of Telecommunications Oftel, the motivated people who can make a difference for Independent Television Commission, the Broadcasting customers, shareholders, the company and themselves.
Standards Commission, the Radio Authority and the Only by living our values trustworthy, helpful, Radiocommunications Agency.
straightforward, inspiring and heart will we deliver our Ofcom has a wide range of general and specic strategy, keep our promises to our customers, seize new duties laid down in the Communications Act.
Below is a opportunities in new markets and re-invent our traditional summary of those duties and functions of particular business.
relevance to BTs activities: & the principal duty to further the interests of citizens Property in relation to communications matters and, secondly, At 31 March 2005, BT occupied approximately 6,600 to further the interests of consumers, where properties, located principally in the UK.
Most of this appropriate, by promoting competition.
In doing so, property portfolio is owned by Telereal Group, a 50 50 Ofcom must secure, among other things, the joint venture between Land Securities Trillium and William availability of a wide range of electronic Pears Group.
communications services in the UK: & The majority of these properties are specialised the duty to have regard to the principles under which operational buildings.
They mainly house exchange its regulatory activities should be transparent, equipment and are needed as part of BTs continuing accountable, proportionate, consistent and activities.
Other, general purpose, properties consist appropriately targeted: & chiey of ofces, depots and computer centres.
the duty to review regulatory burdens on a regular Our property strategy is to continue to reduce costs, basis and ensure that they do not involve the at the same time as increasing usage and income imposition or maintenance of unnecessary burdens: generation.
and & In the year ending 31 March 2005, the group sublet the functions of setting conditions of entitlement, approximately 21,000 sqm of additional ofce space, and enforcing those conditions.
Ofcoms decisions vacated 158,000 sqm of space ready for disposal and are subject to appeal on the merits.
successfully disposed of Mondial House in London, In carrying out its duties, Ofcom must consider achieving sales proceeds of 51 million.
promoting competition and the use of effective self-regulation, encouraging investment and innovation, 4British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 and encouraging the availability and use of high-speed operators are mostly in progress.
The EU10 accession data services including broadband.
member states are in the early stages of implementing these directives.
Regulatory conditions BT will not have universal service obligations outside Under the new framework, based on 2003 EU Directives, the UK, although in certain member states we may be providers may no longer be required to obtain licences required to contribute towards an industry fund to pay for before offering telecommunications services.
Individual the cost of meeting universal service obligations in those licences, such as that granted to BT in 1984, no longer countries.
Any findings that BT has SMP in any non-UK exist.
Instead, there is a general authorisation for the market are not expected to have a material impact.
We provision of electronic communications networks and are lobbying the European Commission and other EU services.
bodies with responsibility for electronic communications Regulation is applied through separate sets of for consistent and timely implementation of the new conditions made by Ofcom, of which some apply to all directives and associated regulation.
Others are imposed The availability of cost-oriented access products from individually on particular providers which, following a regulated incumbents remains an important element of review of the relevant markets, are found to have our strategy around the world and we continue to press significant Market Power SMP or are designated as these incumbents, their national regulatory authorities Universal Service Providers.
Other general obligations and at the EU level for such access.
Availability varies by are set out in the Communications Act.
specic obligations that form BTs regulatory environment The European Commission is formally investigating are described below.
the way the UK Government has set BTs property rates and those paid by Kingston Communications.
The Competition Commission is examining whether the Government has The UK telecommunications market is fully open and complied with EC Treaty rules on state aid in assessing highly competitive.
BTs rates were set by the Valuation Ofce Although it is some years since the after lengthy discussions based on well established Telecommunications Act 1984 abolished the monopoly of principles in a transparent process.
In BTs view, any the former statutory corporation, British allegation of state aid is groundless and BT is confident Telecommunications, obligations placed on BT, including that the Government will demonstrate the fairness of the pricing regulation, network access, non-discrimination, UK ratings system.
A nding against the UK Government the provision of universal service and cost accounting could result in BT having to repay any state aid it may be accounting separation, are generally more onerous than determined to have received.
for other providers of electronic communications networks and services.
Rest of the world The vast majority of the markets in which we operate Non-UK regulation around the world are regulated, and in the majority of BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the these we have to obtain licences or other authorisations countries in which we operate or wish to operate.
The and comply with applicable conditions.
The degree to obligations placed on us and our suppliers continue to be which these markets are liberalised varies widely: while relevant to our business models and have cost many are fully open to competition, others place implications for our end-user services.
These rules are restrictions on market entrants, such as the extent to generally applied by national regulatory authorities which foreign ownership is permitted, or restrictions on operating under a government mandate.
The decisions of the services which may be provided.
The extent to which these bodies can have a material impact on our business the national incumbent operator is effectively regulated models.
BTs ability to compete fully in some countries is therefore constrained.
European Union The degree to which the European Directives have been Ofcoms Strategic Review of Telecommunications implemented varies by country.
The general move Shortly after assuming its regulatory functions in towards the new regime continues in the original EU15 December 2003, the Ofce of Communications Ofcom member states before enlargement, although in some of began conducting a Strategic Review of these countries, the implementation of the directives is Telecommunications, the aim of which is to consider the progressing slowly.
In most, but not all, of these EU15 scope for the further development of effective member states, the primary legislation that will enable the competition in the telecommunications sector.
introduction of the new regulatory regime is going The Review has found that although the UK through, or has been through, the legislative process.
The telecommunications market has delivered significant processes of identication of operators with SMP and the benets for consumers and businesses, the current subsequent setting of regulatory obligations on those market situation is not acceptable or desirable going British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 5 forward.
Consequently, Ofcoms second consultation put forward three options: & withdrawal from regulation in favour of reliance on competition law: & a market investigation reference to the Competition Commission under the Enterprise Act: or & the delivery by BT to other industry participants of real equality of access.
BT supports the concept of a settlement based on equality of access which would, in our view, be an ideal opportunity to focus regulation on economic bottlenecks and reduce it elsewhere: sweep away the regulatory mesh that has grown up since 1984: and deliver regulatory stability and certainty, promoting the confidence that market participants need if they are to invest and innovate.
Consequently, in our response to Ofcoms second consultation we put forward a package of proposals under which BT would make significant organisational and other changes to address issues of market confidence and transparency.
We stressed that as part of this package, we would need Ofcom to take certain measures, notably to make a commitment to rapid and significant deregulation.
Ofcom is currently involved in discussions with BT and others aimed at assessing whether a settlement based on equality of access would be feasible.
If it concludes it is not, it will consider adopting the second of the three options outlined above, ie an Enterprise Act reference.
Legal proceedings The company does not believe that there are any pending legal proceedings which would have a material adverse effect on the financial position or operations of the group.
Proceedings have been initiated in Italy against 21 defendants, including a former BT employee, in connection with the Italian UMTS auction.
Blu, in which BT held a minority interest, participated in that auction process.
The hearings are continuing in Rome.
If the proceedings are successful, BT could be held liable, with others, for any damages.
The company has concluded that it would not be appropriate to make a provision in respect of any such potential claim.
6British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005
