Business and Financial Review 1 The European buyout market Europe in the past, and we believe 2004 produced another record that this trend is increasing, level of buyout activity.
The year through a combination of fundsaw strong deal flow in the UK, raising by existing players and of German and French buyout new entrants in the form of local markets, and also an increase in start-ups, US private equity firms very large transactions utilising concentrating more resource on mezzanine.
With private equity Europe, and hedge funds.
firms remaining aggressive buyers Competition for investment of businesses, the secondary buyout opportunities is therefore usually market was extremely busy, fierce, with most businesses for accounting for 40% of activity in sale going through a wide and the year.
The year was also aggressive auction process, characterised by a significant level pushing prices upwards.
of refinancings of existing buyouts.
Clearly, in such circumstances, it is Total volume of buyout loan challenging for investors to achieve activity in 2004 amounted to an their targeted returns.
However, a estimated 53bn compared very active debt market is helping with 43bn in 2003. investors.
The drivers behind this market are fairly straightforward.
The UK market continued to be The low interest rate environment strong, driven substantially by a has been persisting globally for a number of very large transactions, number of years now, and credit notably the buyout of the AA, the defaults have been low.
More and buyout of two family-owned more investors in search of higher businesses, Saga and Weetabix, and yields and better overall returns, are the public-to-private of Debenhams.
being tempted into alternative The French market continued to assets, particularly the subgrow, again aided by two large investment grade market.
High transactions, the buyout of Keolis, yield funds are therefore sitting on a public transport business, and cash that they are struggling to the secondary buyout of Picard, a deploy.
Hedge funds, too, are frozen food retailer.
In Germany, bidding strongly for higher yielding the buyouts of Grohe, Dynamit assets.
At the same time, despite Nobel, Brenntag and ATU helped low interest rates, banks are the market recover to record levels, suffering from heavy pre-payment and in the Netherlands, the market rates from their corporate was mainly driven by the public-tocustomers, and have significant private of the countrys largest levels of excess capital, which they retailer, Vendex, and the LBO of are seeking to deploy, in many World Directories from the quoted cases into the leveraged market.
The consequences for the LBO Private equity firms, fuelled by market are essentially two-fold.
significant cash resources and an Firstly, the price of leverage has aggressive credit market, have been come down.
For example, the bidding hard for investment spread on the JP Morgan European opportunities.
We have referred to high yield bond index has fallen the growth in funds available for from 4.46% to 2.88% over the investment in private equity in past twelve months and from 5 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Business and Financial Review Continued 11.03% in 2002, and fell a further also strong, based on available Looking at individual countries, the 0.29% to 2.59% in the first two funding resources.
Further growth in UK was the largest market in 2004, months of 2005 source: J. P. ICGs loan book will depend on the with 35% of new mezzanine loans.
Secondly, private equity number of substantial transactions Although the headlines were firms are usually able to borrow taking place during the year.
dominated by larger transactions, at higher leverage multiples, as ICG also saw a good deal of activity 2 investors are willing to accept The European mezzanine market in the middle market, which had its greater risk in order to increase We estimate that the European best year for a while.
This cycle mezzanine market saw further market accounted for 18% of the has accelerated over the past growth in 2004, driven in part by total European market, mainly due six months.
the overall growth in buyout activity to a number of larger transactions.
referred to above, but also by an The French market represented The other trend of note in 2004 increased use of mezzanine in 16% of the market, representing was the level of activity in the buyouts, particularly some of the a broad mix of middle market secondary buyout market.
The middle transactions together with two transactions which arise when private market was also very active.
With the exception of equity firms exit their investee the Netherlands no other country companies by selling them to other Further drivers of growth were the accounted for more than 10% of private equity firms.
In some cases, use of mezzanine in existing buyouts the mezzanine market.
rather than selling to secondary to repay shareholder loans in order buyouts, private equity firms realised to provide partial exits to investors, Regarding pricing, while this part of their risk by releveraging a desire amongst some private varies according to markets and their investments and taking out equity firms for the greater flexibility transaction risk, we saw some substantial dividends while retaining mezzanine can offer relative to high downward movement in pricing control.
We expect to see more of yield bonds, and a significant in 2004 in percentage terms.
such transactions while credit increase in the supply of mezzanine, In addition, in some areas we markets remain as liquid and particularly at the larger, more liquid saw a continuing replacement of aggressive as they are at present.
end of the market, from banks, warrants with higher current yield CDOs and hedge funds.
One large and deferred interest, which in Regarding performance, with few new mezzanine fund also launched some cases will lead to a reduction exceptions, the market has been during the course of the year.
in cash-on-cash returns, as subject to relatively few shocks in borrowers will seek to refinance the way of loan payment defaults.
There was an increase in the number such loans as quickly as possible.
Low interest rates and strong of larger mezzanine loans in 2004.
At present levels of liquidity, demand for sub-investment grade The largest, used in the buyout of such refinancings will be very assets generally mean that the AA, came to 400m and was commonplace.
Furthermore, the underperforming buy-outs are able successfully sold down.
Mezzanine increase in leverage which we to cover their interest bills and loans of 125m or more are now noted above is not always being refinance where loan repayments becoming relatively commonplace.
compensated for by better pricing.
However, low The growth in liquidity at this end growth levels generally in Western of the market means that banks are In terms of outlook, we anticipate Europe and a weak dollar will increasingly willing to underwrite that there will continue to be mean that some buyouts will mezzanine and, in some cases, substantial demand for mezzanine struggle to make plan.
secondary markets in mezzanine financing in Europe in 2005. have developed.
However, if the market conditions In any event there is no margin for we have experienced for the past safety in a number of transactions.
ICGs core market, the middle few months persist, we could in market, which we define as certain areas see continued In summary, the buyout market was mezzanine tranches of downward pressure in the market exceptionally strong in 2004.
The between 10m and 50m, on cash-on-cash returns at relatively outlook for the market in 2005 is remains very active.
6 Intermediate Capital Group PLC 3 Overview of the European The market remains dominated by contractual only return, in order to high yield bond and leveraged private equity activity, which has been enhance the overall returns.
At the loan markets focussed on opportunistic exits via end of the year, the amount of secondary buyouts and refinancings.
European high yield bonds This activity, combined with The European high yield market unprecedented demand for higher The impact of currency movements enjoyed another year of strong yielding assets from banks and against sterling during the financial performance in 2004, with the JP Europes growing institutional year was to increase our portfolio in Morgan European High Yield Index investor base, has led to leverage sterling terms by 8m.
New levels increasing and covenant issuance totalled over 22bn, with packages slipping, leading to a more Details of our portfolio, including 77 new transactions during the year.
However against all new loans and repayments, may Equity sponsor driven deals drove a backdrop of relatively benign be found on pages 11 to 15 of new issue volumes in 2004, in economic conditions and low default this report.
contrast to 2003 when refinancing rates we expect demand to remain transactions from Fallen Angel high leading to further pressure on New loans and investments credits dominated new issuance.
leverage and pricing in the short This year was a record year in terms As a consequence of new issuance term.
Liquidity in the secondary of new investments, with ICG in the past couple of years, diversity market has grown substantially in underwriting or providing a total of in the market has improved the last twelve months.
778m of mezzanine loans in 28 dramatically.
The fastest growth new deals.
We took 409m of this 4 area in new issuance in 2004 was The portfolio for our own balance sheet, of which from corporate credits, especially in During the year our portfolio of 28m related to equity investments.
Germany, where issuance levels in loans and investments increased by 2004 were double those in 2003.
Although this year In the second half of the year, we We expect this trend to continue was a record for new loans and were particularly active, completing into 2005 and beyond as European investments made, this rate of four large transactions the AA, businesses take advantage of the increase is lower than in previous Keolis, Picard and Saga in which low level of interest rates and very years, mainly as a result of the record we invested a total of 155m for low spreads to lock in long term level of repayments during the year.
our own balance sheet and 137m financing at favorable rates.
Default for our fund management clients.
rates in 2004 were at an all time It has always been our policy to low of less than 1%.
2005 default diversify risk by spreading our Eleven of the new loans were in rates are forecast to remain low, portfolio on both a geographical respect of UK deals and nine were although we expect an increase and sector basis and at the end of in respect of French deals.
the year our portfolio was spread remaining loans, two were in each across 10 countries in Western of Germany and Sweden, with one European leveraged loans Europe and over 26 sectors, with each in Denmark, Italy, the 2004 was a strong year for the the highest concentration being Netherlands and Switzerland.
European leveraged loan market transportation.
A full breakdown in terms of overall volume 65bn of both geographical and industry ICG was the lead investor in 14 of and number of transactions 160 sectors is shown on Page 13. the 28 transactions and is agent on compared with 48bn and 129 19 of them.
Volumes were at Our strongest markets continue to be respect of buyouts, three were to their second highest level ever, only France and the UK, with 36% and finance acquisitions and two were surpassed by 2001s cable driven 34% respectively of the portfolio.
The market is a much deeper and broader market today, During the year, we continued our Repayments with much larger transactions practice of taking small equity Last year was a record year for coming to market that are more participations in a number of new repayments, with 315m being attractive to institutional investors.
deals, including those with a repaid in respect of 23 companies.
7 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Business and Financial Review Continued 14 of the repayments were as a and warrants in companies to from 491m 710m at the result of exits, through either which we lend and whose value is beginning of the year to 643m flotation or a trade sale, and nine not included in the balance sheet.
were as a result of refinancing of the In addition we also hold quoted mezzanine loans with cheaper debt.
shares which are held at cost in the High yield and leveraged balance sheet.
At the end of the loan fund management Provisions year the Directors estimated, using During the year, we raised a new It is our policy to make specific a combination of BVCA guidelines loan fund of 350m, bringing the provisions against any loan or and quoted market prices, the number of sub-investment grade investment where, in the judgement excess value of these shares and structured funds to six.
The total of management, the value of that warrants over cost amounted to amount under management was loan or investment has become 146m, compared to 82m at the 2.2bn at the end of the year.
Each quarter, beginning of the year.
management assesses the loans and All funds are fully invested, with the 5 investments in its portfolio to Fund management exception of the most recent fund determine the performance of each Mezzanine which is substantially invested.
asset and whether there is any The final closing of the Mezzanine future risk to its principal.
It is on the Fund 2003 was achieved early in We have agreed to utilise our basis of this quarterly review that the year with equity commitments balance sheet to warehouse a provisions are decided.
Subsequently, the Fund number of assets for funds, accruing raised debt by securitising its interest income and also taking any During the year, a small number portfolio, with the initial amount of capital profits or losses through our of companies in the portfolio debt raised being 450m, giving an Profit and Loss Account.
Additionally, continued to suffer from depressed overall fund size of in excess of we have committed to purchase a trading conditions and, as a result, 1.1bn.
It is anticipated that substantial book of leveraged loans we made significant provisions additional debt will be raised under amounting to 450m 310m, against three of them, totalling this programme to enable the Fund currently financed by a third party, 22.2m.
In addition, incremental to achieve its target size of 1.5bn.
which we will use to supply both provisions of 7.8m were made new and existing funds.
ICG is liable against a further three loans, The Mezzanine Fund 2003 takes for the first 5% of losses that this bringing our gross provisions for 40% of all mezzanine opportunities portfolio may incur prior to it being the year to 30.0m.
There was also where the amount available to purchased by our funds.
ICG exceeds 18.75m, thereby 6 increasing its underwriting capability, Borrowings and debt facilities The net charge of specific as well as contributing significantly At the end of the financial year, provisions to the profit and loss to fund management income.
our borrowings stood at 848m account therefore amounted to compared to 798m at the 28.2 compared to a net charge At the end of the year, the amount beginning of the year.
The increase of 19.0m last year, which included invested by the Mezzanine Fund in debt was lower than the growth 6.9m of written back provisions.
2003 was 434m 628m, having in the loan portfolio due to the level invested 283m 410m and been of retained profits during the year.
At the end of the year, total repaid 28m 41m during the Gearing stood at the comparatively provisions amounted to 64.2m in year.
The amount invested by our low level of 2.4 times, compared respect of 12 loans and investments.
other mature mezzanine fund to 2.5 times at the beginning of This represents 74% of the total management clients decreased by the year.
cost of these loans and investments 103m 148m during the year and 5.2% of the loan book.
due to the high level of exits and Early in the year, we returned to repayments.
As a result, the the US private placement for a fifth Shares and warrants amount invested on behalf of all time, raising 110m US$200m As a result of our mezzanine our mezzanine fund management from that market, along with a lending we hold unquoted shares clients increased during the year further 30m from the UK private 8 Intermediate Capital Group PLC placement market.
We have now record level of capital gains which are charged on amounts committed raised 374m from this market, of more than doubled from last year.
rather than invested which was the which 348m was outstanding at The analysis of income, split between case in previous funds.
core income and other income, is shown in Note 3 to these accounts.
Fees from the management of nonIn 2003, we raised over 200m by mezzanine funds increased from securitising part of its portfolio and The pre-tax return on average 4.2m to 6.7m as more funds this year we raised a further 40m shareholder funds amounted to came under management.
Profit after tax amounted to 62.0m compared to 43.6m the Expenses Total administrative and During the year, 13m US$25m of previous year.
Undiluted earnings operating expenses increased from private placement debt matured, as per share amounted to 89.4p, the restated figure by 4.7m to did 140m of bank debt.
As a compared to 70.4p last year.
The most result, at the end of the financial significant part of this expense year we had unutilised facilities of The constituent parts of ICGs relates to salaries and short term 155m, compared to 225m at the profits are: bonuses, which rose from 10.9 beginning of the year.
to 12.8m, reflecting growing staff Core income Core income is the numbers, particularly in the Since the year end, we have key component of our profitability operations and finance areas, and consolidated all our banking and consists of net interest income, the need to ensure that staff facilities amounting to 372m into plus fees, less related administrative receive the appropriate rewards one large revolving credit facility of expenses.
This increased by 21% to across the company.
This facility has a five year 75.1m for this financial year.
maturity and a lower margin than Costs of the medium term incentive the existing facilities.
Net interest income Net interest scheme included in core income income increased by 17% from rose to 6.3m from a restated Note 22 to the accounts shows the 64.0m to 75.1m.
This increase 5.0m for last year.
This reflects the movement in borrowings during reflects the increase in the size of increased amount of rolled up the year.
our loan book over the past two interest accrued in the year, on years, the continuing use of roll up which an accrual is made for the 7 Shareholders funds interest in deal structures and the incentive scheme.
At the end of the year, our impact for a full year of the equity shareholders funds had increased issue in October 2003.
Non-payroll costs increased by by 36.7m to 359.5m primarily 1.5m to 8.3m, including the full as a result of retained profits of Fee income Total fee income rose years cost of the overseas offices.
The balance of 2.6m by 31% to 27.4m for the year.
Overall, total expenses represent comes from the exercise of share Underwriting and arrangement fees 36% of net core income, options during the year.
rose slightly from 8.4m to 8.8m, unchanged from last year.
reflecting the record level of new Note 18 shows the movements in deals completed in the year.
Capital gains The gross level of shareholders funds during the year.
Agency fees dropped slightly from capital gains for the year increased 1.4m to 1.3m.
from 26.2m to a record of 8 Results for the year 62.9m, reflecting the much Our results for the year are Fund management fees rose from improved market for exits compared summarised on page 1 of these 11.1m last year to 17.3m.
Fees to the previous few years.
These statements, with the Profit and Loss from managing mezzanine funds gains were in respect of 19 Account being on page 32.
Pre-tax increased from 6.9m to 10.6m, investments of which five were profits increased substantially by including 2.2m 2004: 1.4m of flotations and 14 were trade sales 48% to 95.5m and although core carried interest fees.
This increase and secondary buy-outs.
Five of income increased strongly by 21%, reflects the fee structure on the these gains arose in the UK, six in the main driver this year was the Mezzanine Fund 2003, where fees France, three in the Netherlands and 9 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Business and Financial Review Continued one in each of Germany, Ireland, Loans and investments Under UK Derivatives Under UK GAAP, Belgium, Sweden and Singapore.
GAAP, loans and investments, hedging derivatives are accounted Additionally, we hold listed shares including warrants, are measured at for on an accruals basis in not sold at flotation whose excess cost less provisions for bad and accordance with the accounting value over cost amounted to doubtful debts.
Under IFRS, the loans treatment of the underlying 11.3m at the year end.
are measured at amortised cost and transaction or transactions being the equity investments and warrants hedged.
IFRS requires all derivatives The costs of the Medium Term are measured at fair value.
to be measured at fair value, with Incentive Scheme increased from any changes taken to the profit and 4.8m to 14.3m as a result of the Effective interest rate Under UK loss account.
The resultant profit and record level of capital gains.
GAAP, interest is recognised on an loss volatility can be mitigated by the accruals basis and loan origination use of hedge accounting, although Provisions and other related fees are recognised some volatility will remain due to The charge for the year increased when receivable.
Under IFRS, income residual hedge ineffectiveness.
from 19.0m net of write backs of on a loan is recognised using the 6.9m to 28.2m net of writeeffective interest rate method, with backs of 1.8m, primarily because income being recognised at the rate of the need for provisions on three that exactly discounts estimated new underperforming assets.
future cash flows over the loans expected life to its net carrying value, 9 International Financial taking into account all fees received Reporting Standards IFRS and paid, as well as any other The Group is currently working on transaction costs, premiums or restating our January 2005 results on discounts, that are integral to the an IFRS basis.
The effective interest rate comparative results which we will method is used to calculate the disclose in the 2005 interim and the amortised cost of a loan.
These reports will also include the restated opening Impairment Under UK GAAP, reserves positions at 1 February 2004 provisions for bad and doubtful and 1 February 2005. debts are made so as to record a loan or investment at its net The Group will explain the changes realisable value.
IFRS requires from UK GAAP to IFRS prior to the impairment losses on amortised cost interim announcement.
At this point assets to be provided for on an the IFRS statutory comparative incurred basis.
The impairment loss figures and opening reserves will is calculated as the difference have been audited.
between the assets carrying value and the present value of estimated The key areas for ICG that will be future cash flows discounted at the affected by IFRS are shown below.
assets original effective interest rate.
Dividends payable Under UK GAAP, dividends are deducted from retained earnings in the year to which they relate.
Under IFRS, dividends are recognised in the period that they are declared.
