Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 7 Operating Review Operating Review Industry review and The continued investor wish for returnbusiness strategy diversification, within a managed risk Man Group is an investment manager environment, has been driving allocations focused on alternative investment strategies, into alternatives.
However, the total size of as well as one of the worlds leading the alternative investment industry remains providers of brokerage services.
small when compared to total global investable assets of around $126 trillion, In Asset Management, our objective is to even after allowing for an element of provide, structure and distribute a wide leverage.
We believe this will mean a range of alternative investment products continued need for structural allocations designed to meet the needs of both into the industry and will support strong institutional and private investors.
These investor flows which Man can continue products seek to produce attractive riskto access.
adjusted returns with low correlation to Stanley Fink traditional equity and bond investments.
The year to March 2005 was another Chief Executive, Man Group plc This is achieved by offering investors access strong year for the industry with net inflows to high quality managers across alternative excluding managed futures estimated investment styles, either through our at $79 billion according to Hedge Fund ownership of managers, an affiliation with Research Inc.
This was down slightly from third party managers or through allocations the prior year when $99 billion had been to qualifying managers in a fund of funds raised, although this was itself a record.
Using our extensive and specialist As reflected in Mans sales mix for the year, internal structuring capabilities, products are institutional investors have been a significant created to provide the risk return attributes contributor to the growth as they increasingly investors seek, with features such as capital look to alternative assets as a way of protection, liquidity and transparency.
These achieving absolute returns with low products are distributed to investors around correlation to their existing assets.
the world both directly and through relationships with banks, financial Overall, funds under management in intermediaries and advisers.
the industry have grown at a compound average annual rate of 19% in the last As a market leader, Man is well positioned 10 years, and by 17% in the year to March to participate in continued strong growth 2005.
Mans total funds under management in the alternative investment industry.
have grown at a compound average annual For the industry as a whole, funds under rate of 45% in the last 10 years and in the management excluding private equity year to March 2005 grew 12% although and real estate at 31 March 2005 were Mans private investor funds under estimated to have reached $1,134 billion management grew 18% in the year.
compared to $973 billion at March 2004 and $680 billion at March 2003.
With We seek to participate fully in the continued $43 billion of assets under management, growth of the industry by maintaining a Man therefore represents about 4% of balanced and scalable business.
is provided by serving both the private investor and institutional investor segments Growth of the global hedge fund industry and by the wide geography of our asset including managed futures raising, with investors from Europe, the Middle East, Asia Pacific and North America.
Number of hedge funds This balance provides greater certainty of Hedge fund assets asset growth, by allowing us to capture Number of hedge funds US$ bn demand from a wide range of investors, 1200 8000 many with differing requirements, across a 1100 7000 1000 variety of regional and national economies.
900 6000 800 5000 700 Scaleability is afforded through the 600 4000 resources we have deployed in seeking 500 3000 400 out investment management capacity, 300 2000 in continuing to broaden our distribution 200 1000 100 capabilities and in the provision of support 0 0 functions.
The Barclay Group and This is an estimate of the total market capitalisation of world Hennessee Group stocks, bonds and the assets of the worlds 1,000 largest As at 31 March 2005 banks as at the end of 2003 as estimated by JP Morgan in an October 2004 research report.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 8 Operating Review alternative investment management and an We target consistent earnings growth for Our strategy is to grow revenues through established franchise.
We have developed shareholders through growth in assets the recruitment of producer teams, continued substantial investment management and under management, managing resources development of the product offering and investor servicing capabilities and invested effectively, and keeping much of the cost new trading opportunities.
In this way the in new manager opportunities.
This has allowed continued business can both leverage off the existing combination of resource and expertise strong growth in the year in both gross infrastructure and client base as well as allows us to address increasing regulatory and net management fee income.
Managing market complexity in many markets and to develop management fee margins in our private change is a core competence of Man onshore product offerings where there is investor business have improved slightly Financial.
We look to be a consolidator private investor demand.
Institutional margins at times of market change, such as the provide scale to investment management, have improved from 0.6% to 0.7%.
move from open outcry that is currently through continued enhancement of capacity Management fee margins against total underway in the US.
We focus on tight in the existing managers, investing in new assets under management will always control of overheads and high levels of managers, establishing capacity access reflect the mix of assets between the higher return on capital.
A key measurement is relationships with other managers, and margin private investor assets and the the ratio of operating expenses to net expanding the underlying manager content institutional assets.
We seek to achieve income and this has shown a steady and in our fund of funds offering.
balanced growth of both investor assets, sustained reduction over the last few years but our foremost objective is to grow from 79.2% in 2001 to 72.5% in 2005.
Our approach to the private investor market returns to shareholders through focus is based on the delivery of distinctive on the private investor content.
The Groups financial objectives and products to the investor through partner performance measurement targets are tied organisations.
We structure products which By adding new managers we have also to delivering significant growth in underling offer a high degree of transparency, frequent continued to diversify away from any earnings and maintaining high post tax liquidity, and in most cases capital protection.
dominant exposure to specific managers.
returns on capital, so creating long-term While some of these products may provide This adds increasing certainty over the value to shareholders.
At the Group level, exposure to a single strategy, most provide presence of performance fee income in any the combination of the Asset Management a diversified portfolio of strategies.
This years results have demonstrated and Brokerage activities offers shareholders with our partner distributors, who include that, despite a much reduced contribution further balance from the diversified earnings banks, asset managers and other financial from AHL, a good level of performance streams.
Both our Asset Management and intermediaries around the world, we have fees was earned from our other managers, Brokerage businesses are leading players been able to develop an extensive global in particular RMF and BlueCrest.
in specialised areas with fast-growing distribution network, with access to multiple underlying markets.
There are some material markets, while keeping our fixed cost base In Brokerage our focus is on continued synergies between the two businesses.
For these reasons we organic growth, underpinned by a diversified AHL is a major customer of Man Financial, dedicate senior resources to the cultivation product offering and a wide geographical contributing around 10% of its net revenues, and management of these relationships.
presence across all key markets.
This and in return AHL has benefited from a Where appropriate given the size or scale provides both flexibility in accessing new single clearing relationship, and advice of an intermediary we will tailor a product, markets and earnings resilience in times of and access to new and changing markets.
or suite of products, to the specific lower product or regional activity.
Our leading The Group provides strategic focus for requirements of that distributor.
Mans market positions on the worlds major the businesses, sets risk appetites and independence as a product provider, our futures exchanges provide us with superior monitors risk exposures.
It is also responsible scale and the length of our track record access to liquidity in financial markets.
for capital and liquidity management to in this area make us an attractive partner Our strategy is to use this advantage to support the businesses.
the benefit of clients worldwide and allows us to develop further our matched principal In contrast, institutional asset gathering business.
Futures and options exchanges is typically through direct relationships, have continued to see strong volume and in terms of product offering is usually growth driven in large part by the ongoing through an open-ended, diversified fund conversion of derivatives markets from of funds format, although where an floor-based exchanges to electronic format.
institution wants an exposure to a style This has enabled exchanges to lower fees, or strategy subset these portfolios can be reduce execution times and broaden provided.
Similarly, specific fiscal, regulatory access.
In addition, the increasing or reporting requirements may also call for importance of risk management has led customisation of product on a case by to an increase in demand along with the case basis.
Since the acquisition of RMF structural shift of products from the in 2002, our goal has been to broaden our OTC markets to on-exchange trading.
institutional client base across Europe and Exchanges offer customers the advantages to enhance the average margin of our of improved price transparency, centralised institutional assets by delivering a range clearing and credit intermediation.
of value-adding services and by leveraging scaleable asset management processes.
