Our business in 2005 Group business review Group results Strong growth in basic EPS up 54% to I move to my role as Chief Executive of 25.1p and adjusted operating EPS up by 22% to 18.2p Skandia, confident in the knowledge that Group profit attributable to equity holders management action taken across all our increased by 55% from 559 million in 2004, to 867 million in 2005, contributing to a 54% businesses has created a platform for increase in basic earnings per share to 25.1p.
The strong organic growth in sales and assets across all regions contributed to an increase of 30% in adjusted operating profit before tax to 1,244 million.
Adjusted operating profit after tax and minority interests increased by 25% from 557 million in 2004 to 699 million in 2005, resulting in an increase in adjusted operating earnings per share to 18.2p for 2005.
Adjusted Embedded Value profit up 23% The Groups adjusted operating profit on an EEV basis of 1,387 million increased by 23% from 1,124 million for the year ended 31 December 2004, primarily reflecting a strong increase in banking and asset management profit in addition to life profit in North America.
Adjusted embedded value operating profit for life assurance of 701 million was down by 4% from 733 million for the year ended 31 December 2004, with African embedded value profit being down 13% due primarily to the impact of lower interest rates and reduced equity exposure in shareholder funds on the expected return on adjusted net worth.
North America life embedded value profit increased by 58% reflecting the significant value of new business sold in 2004.
Adjusted Embedded Value per share up by 26% Adjusted Group Embedded Value EV adjusted for own shares held in policyholders funds and to bring listed Group subsidiaries to market value has increased by 33% to 7.2 billion, increasing adjusted Group EV per share by 26% to 175.6p at 31 December 2005.
Return on Adjusted Group EV was Julian Roberts Group Finance Director strong at 15.6%.
Old Mutual plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Embedded value development bn 33% 7.2 5.4 Debt Mutual & Federal UK & Rest of the World Nedbank US Asset Management OMSA US Life The significant increase in equity prices in European Embedded Value EEV Under IFRS 2, share-based payment charges South Africa in 2005 has been a key driver of The 2005 embedded value numbers have are recognised over the vesting period of the the strong growth in EV, resulting in large been prepared in accordance with the EEV schemes and apply to employee and nonpositive investment variances in the African principles issued in May 2004 by the employee arrangements where the Group life business and increases in the Nedbank European Chief Financial Officers Forum, with receives benefits in respect of the issue of and Mutual & Federal share prices.
Return all 2004 comparative figures also restated on these shares.
on EV for the life businesses was 14% before this basis.
Risk margins have been calculated investment variances and 27% including using a market consistent approach, reflecting The amounts calculated in respect of certain investment variances.
the distinctive product risks in the individual schemes, principally the broad-based businesses.
employee schemes and black business The value of new life business grew by 5%, partners arrangements, vest immediately such with 13% growth in North America, offset Adjusted operating profit that the total charge is recognised upfront by a 5% decline in Africa.
Good new business Adjusted operating profit represents the within the consolidated income statement.
volume growth of 14% in Africa was offset directors view of the underlying performance by a conscious reduction in new business of the Group.
For life assurance and general The initial share-based payment charges, in margins.
insurance business, adjusted operating profit addition to professional fees incurred in is based on a long-term investment return, respect of the establishment of the BEE Funds under management up 31% includes investment returns on investments in schemes, have, however, been excluded from During 2005, funds under management Group equity and debt instruments held in life adjusted operating profit as these large one-off increased to 183 billion, up 31% from funds and is stated net of income tax charges distort the underlying performance of 140 billion at 31 December 2004 and attributable to policyholder returns.
Our businesses, adjusted operating profit excludes international diversity delivered strong net goodwill impairments, fines and penalties, The shares issued in respect of the BEE cash inflows of 13 billion, an increase of initial costs of Black Economic Empowerment schemes are legally issued on the basis that 8 billion when compared to last year, as BEE schemes, and profit loss on disposal the BEE beneficiaries have full voting rights strong performances by our US and UK of investments in subsidiaries, associated over the shares and receive all dividends, in businesses more than offset weak flows in undertakings and strategic investments.
essence obtaining full economic benefits Africa.
Adjusted operating profit also excludes income attaching to equity ownership.
from hedging activities that do not qualify for Basis of reporting hedge accounting.
In recognition of this, the Summary International Financial consolidated income statement reflects the Reporting Standards IFRS Black Economic Empowerment BEE legal ownership of these shares following The Group has adopted IFRS from 1 January accounting implications implementation of the BEE schemes, with the 2004, including a restatement of 2004 One of the key differences between the minority interest on adjusted operating profit comparatives.
Details of all transitional adjusted operating profit and profit before tax based on a weighted average effective interest impacts, including the reconciliations required attributable to equity holders relates to the in Nedbank and Mutual & Federal of 52% and by IFRS and the Groups IFRS accounting accounting treatment of our BEE transactions 83% respectively.
The weighted average shares policies are contained in our IFRS announced on 19 April 2005. used in the calculation of adjusted operating announcement released on 3 May 2005. earnings per share include those Old Mutual This can be found on our website.
Our 2005 In accordance with the latest technical plc shares issued as part of the BEE schemes.
interim results announcement released on interpretations of BEE accounting, shares 10 August 2005 was prepared on the basis issued under these schemes are treated in In determining the Groups embedded value, of these accounting policies.
The Group has accordance with IFRS2.
On this basis, the contributions received under the BEE schemes subsequently early adopted the IAS 39 Fair effective interest reflected in the consolidated are recognised within adjusted net worth.
In Value Option amendments which removed the income statement and balance sheet for order to ensure that the Groups adjusted impact of the European Union EU carve-out.
Nedbank and Mutual & Federal is 55% and embedded value reflects the total contributions 88% respectively and excludes the impact of to be received, an adjustment is made to the Groups BEE schemes.
incorporate the present value of future BEE Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11
