12 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Business Review The largest dealing room in Korea opens for business SC First Banks dealing room is the largest in Korea.
It was opened with a traditional Korean ceremony in October 2005.
The scale of the operation reects the opportunity for Wholesale Banking to enhance service and drive product innovation in Korea.
The successful launch demonstrated the Groups commitment to Korea.
As an overseas bank buying the first such award to a Delivering value a trusted Korean financial financial services organisation.
institution, it is essential that At a time of rapid growth it is we uphold our reputation and particularly important that we Living our values that of SC First Bank with share our values and strategy customers, employees and with our new employees.
SC other stakeholders in Korea.
First Bank was included in The Groups financial performance Our people ensured the our employee survey in 2005 rebrand and merger went with a 98 per cent voluntary is underpinned by its commitment ahead without disruption to response rate and engagement customers.
In welcoming more to excellent service, innovation, in line with Group levels.
SC than 5,000 SC First Bank First Banks participation in investment in people, fair business employees we established the International ShareSave positive labour relations by practices and exemplary governance.
Scheme is the highest in respecting existing agreements the Group at 92 per cent.
SC First Banks Board is equally Employee engagement balanced between Korean has been strengthened and non-Korean members.
by the Groups community Investment in product programmes.
In Korea we innovation and service launched Seeing is Believing, are central to the Groups our campaign to combat success.
In the last three Our strategy drives value avoidable blindness, at the How we participate months of 2005, we creation by combining SC First Bank Family Day in The Groups strategy in conducted over 10,000 operational efficiency with July.
Employee and matching its markets is one of driving training days at SC First Bank, corporate responsibility Group contributions from the organic growth, supplemented representing a 20 per cent and employee engagement, annual staff salary donation by strategic acquisitions and increase in classroom training.
and the links between these totalled $713,000, which was alliances.
In 2005 Standard SC First Bank was awarded elements are becoming donated to the Community an A rating by the Korean Chartered made progress ever stronger.
Chest of Korea and Seeing government in recognition on both these fronts.
of the quality of e-learning, is Believing.
We are an increasingly wellSC First Bank balanced bank, strengthened The biggest event of the year for through the diversity of our the Group was the acquisition geography and products, in April of Korea First Bank our earnings streams and now named SC First Bank.
At the heart of The integration of SC First how we drive performance Bank with Standard Chartereds are our values to be branch in Korea ahead of Responsive, Trustworthy, schedule exemplies many of Creative, International the features that contribute to and Courageous.
SC First Bank launches new brand in Korea The new Korean brand, SC First Bank, was chosen after listening to stakeholders views.
The roll out of the new brand identity across the entire network of 407 branches was one of the largest re-branding initiatives ever to be carried out in Korea and was completed over a single weekend.
com 13 Investment in China Bohai Bank In September we signed an agreement to invest $123 million for a 19.99 per cent stake in China Bohai Bank, the first new national joint stock commercial bank in the Peoples Republic of China since 1996.
The signing ceremony was witnessed by Premier Wen Jiabao of China and British Prime Minister the Rt.
Investment in China national joint-stock commercial Opportunities for growth Secretary of State for Trade and Industry, the Rt.
Standard Chartered has been bank headquartered in the extend across Asia with Alan Johnson MP, co-chair in China for almost 150 years.
the Other Asia Pacic region the Asia Task Force, a group The Group has 10 branches showing strong performance China Bohai Bank aims to of British business leaders set in China, seven of which in both businesses in countries leverage Standard Chartereds up by the UK Chancellor of have been granted licences such as Indonesia, Thailand international banking experience the Exchequer, the Rt.
to provide yuan banking and Taiwan.
to achieve long-term growth Gordon Brown MP, to services to corporate clients.
The Group invested in Vietnam and offer innovative products strengthen business The Group was given approval in 2005 by buying a minority in Wholesale and Consumer ties between Britain and Asia.
in October to open three more holding in Asia Commercial Banking.
The investment sub-branches in Shanghai, Leadership in Africa Bank.
We were the first foreign complements our organic Beijing and Shenzhen in Africa is an important part institution to acquire a stake in strategy in China.
the first quarter of 2006, a domestic Vietnamese bank.
of the Groups history and representing a significant Asian growth markets In Thailand, Standard Chartered future.
Despite challenges step in our expansion plans.
took full control of Standard One of the Groups biggest of poverty and governance, Chartered Nakornthon Bank.
opportunities in Asia is India.
In Africa is rich in resources and In December Wholesale We now have 41 branches and 2005 we continued to build our has a dynamic culture.
With Banking gained approval for corporate ofces, and almost presence.
Consumer Banking a strong presence and deep the Shanghai branch to be an 1,700 employees, in Thailand.
added five new branches, 17 roots in Asia and in Africa, inter-bank foreign exchange ATMs and six consumer we are ready to capitalise The Group performed well in market maker.
The reputation finance centres in India.
on increasing activity in the established markets such as of Wholesale Bankings Hong Kong, its biggest market.
trade corridors between Wholesale Banking performed capital markets services these continents.
strongly in India in 2005, driven won it the leading role on Consumer Banking in Hong by growth in client revenue.
Kong benefited from decisions China Construction Banks Standard Chartered Standard Chartered was we made on costs in late supports local businesses and groundbreaking RMB3 billion ranked top in mergers and 2004 and 2005.
In a rising communities in Africa through mortgage-backed securitisation.
acquisitions involving Indian interest rate environment, the its operations in 13 countries, In September the Group bought business refocused on wealth companies for 2005, advising and the Group is playing a part a 19.99 per cent stake in management and SMEs to on transactions valued at in Africas success stories.
China Bohai Bank, the first a total of $3 billion.
South Africa is a key Wholesale Bankings income market for our African in Hong Kong rose strongly as strategy.
We re-entered it focused on middle-market South African Consumer clients.
Global markets and Banking in 2003 and have cash products had strong repositioned the business volume growth.
from savings to mortgages As a UK-based bank with to play to our strengths.
deep roots in Asia, we are helping to build links between We increased our capital Britain and Asia.
Our Chairman, in Nigeria by $140 million in Bryan Sanderson, and the UK 2005 to support our ambitions Product campaigns drive Hong Kong Consumer Banking Consumer Bankings strong performance in Hong Kong was supported by new product campaigns in credit cards and wealth management.
This push continued in 2006 with this eyecatching promotion for the Marathon Savings Account.
14 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Business Review continued To capitalise on opportunities in dynamic markets, we must provide innovative products.
in Africas second-fastest the region, produced a strong We will continue to invest How we compete growing economy.
We are performance driven by robust at a measured pace and To capitalise on opportunities economic growth from confident about Nigerias preserve our cost discipline.
in dynamic markets as infrastructure, tourism and long-term prospects.
competition increases, Americas and the UK trade.
UAE is establishing itself we must provide innovative Last year Africa rose to the Our operations in the as a regional and financial hub.
products and as full a range top of the international political Americas and the United Pakistan produced strong of services as possible to agenda as governments of Kingdom remain a key growth for the Group in 2005. meet the needs of clients.
leading economic nations part of our strategy.
Standard Chartered has been sought to establish a longThe savings market in The Groups New York in Pakistan for more than 140 term plan for economic revival.
Singapore was revolutionised business is a leading dollar years and has taken a leading when the Group launched Standard Chartered played a clearer, providing an important role in the development of the its e$aver and e$aver Kids leading role in the Commission service to corporate clients countrys banking sector.
The for Africa, working with trading in our markets.
products had higher interest We have doubled the number the UK Government rates with no minimum deposit Our businesses in Latin of branches in Pakistan in on recommendations to and balance, no monthly America position us to benefit the past two years to 44 in strengthen SMEs across fee and no xed term.
The as economies such as Brazil the region.
This coincided 10 key cities and increased 18-month sales targets were strengthen and trade with with the relaunch of our SME the number of employees to achieved in less than a month.
countries in our other regions.
also playing a leading role Standard Chartered has also The UK is a hub for the The Banks commitment to in Business Action for Africa, set a new standard in online Groups global account Pakistan was underlined by an international coalition banking in Singapore and management of European its contribution of $1 million to of businesses committed to South East Asia through its businesses and positions rebuilding efforts following the ending poverty in the region.
smartphone Mobile Banking us competitively as these earthquake in October 2005. and the unique eCheque companies increasingly want MESA region of opportunity payment channel.
These Standard Chartered celebrated to trade in our markets.
In the Middle East and Other innovations underscore the 100 years in Bangladesh South Asia region we achieved Our UK business plays a vital Groups use of technology to in 2005 and consolidated double digit income growth in role in providing governance meet customers increasingly its position as the countrys both businesses and almost and regulatory standards sophisticated needs.
largest foreign bank by all geographies.
Wholesale across the Group as regulation acquiring the commercial Banking showed good growth A major opportunity in our of the financial services banking business of American in client income in transactional markets is in Islamic banking industry is tightened through Express Bank in Bangledesh.
banking, capital markets and products to meet the needs initiatives such as the Basel II corporate finance.
In Consumer of Muslim clients.
We have bank capital accord.
The MESA region is growing Banking, income growth was Islamic banking operations quickly, based on the strong driven by wealth management, in five countries.
oil price and rapidly expanding credit cards and SMEs.
With growth comes competition for talent The United Arab Emirates UAE, our biggest market in and rising employee costs.
Local teams in UAE Standard Chartereds Emiratisation programme is an integral part of the Groups strategy in UAE.
We now have almost 400 Emirati employees across all management levels in Standard Chartered Dubai, underlining the Groups belief in drawing on local talent.
com 15 Standard Chartered Kenya wins product innovation award Beatrice Maingi, Secured Lending Manager in Nairobi, holding the award for Most Innovative Product 2005 Standard Chartered Kenyas Fixed Rate Home Loan at the Institute of Financial Services Deloitte Financial Innovation Awards 2005 in London.
In Malaysia we produced The FF&P partnership will sponsor for Hong Kong In 2005 the senior QuickCash Islamic personal complement our own private Disneyland, which opened management population was loans, developed to meet banking business, which in September 2005. expanded to 350 from 230.
We will build will be launched in 2006.
The Group strengthened its In MESA, Standard Chartered on this success in Malaysia succession plans for key roles In 2005 the Group bought a was the premier sponsor with further Islamic banking and Group-wide leadership six per cent stake in Travelex, in 2006 of the Abu Dhabi products in 2006. development programmes.
the worlds largest non-bank Golf Championship, helping A distinguishing feature of foreign exchange specialist.
In addition, 90 emerging to build relationships with successful banks is their leaders were selected in stakeholders and raise The Groups alliance with technology platforms.
A key 2005 to receive focused brand awareness.
Travelex allows Standard element of our strategy is development to accelerate Chartered to offer additional Our agship sponsorship is to deploy technology to their inclusion into succession innovative products and gives the Greatest Race on Earth, delight customers and plans for key roles.
Travelex access to markets in a series of four Standard challenge competitors with Asia.
In early 2006 in China, We increased recruitment of Chartered marathons in innovative products.
Standard Chartered and Graduate Associates.
These Nairobi, Singapore, Mumbai For example, in Singapore Travelex launched Easigo, an employees receive structured and Hong Kong with a $1.575 the innovative e$aver product career development, stretching electronic travellers cheque million prize pool.
The series, was launched two months roles and international that can be used worldwide.
which entered its second after its inception.
To stay at experience in preparation for year in 2005, underpins our Revitalised brand the forefront of technological accelerated career progression.
brand and values, reinforces The Groups drive for change, the Group has joined our commitment to our In an increasingly competitive innovation and diversied with Singapore Management communities, and involves market for talent, the appeal earnings is supported by an University to create an our employees who represent of the Groups distinctive increasingly visible and trusted Innovation Centre to foster Standard Chartered in teams approach to corporate brand.
We have targeted technology research.
The race is also responsibility stands out.
sponsorship opportunities linked to Seeing is Believing Alliance strategies Recent research shows in key markets.
through the involvement of In 2005 the Group entered that 50 per cent of the Henry Wanyoike, our global In 2005 we sponsored a number of alliances that Groups graduate recruits ambassador for the campaign.
will allow it to gain competitive Tottenham Hotspur, one cite corporate responsibility advantage and add services.
of English footballs most Leadership drive as a factor in their decision prestigious teams, when they We have become a bigger to join Standard Chartered.
Wholesale Banking serves travelled to Korea to play in and more complex bank many ultra-high net worth the Korea Peace Cup.
Spurs and we must ensure we have owners of family businesses.
players took part in activities the right leaders to drive the We announced in December involving Standard Chartered business now and in future.
a partnership with Fleming employees and customers, Family & Partners Limited helping to build the Groups FF&P, a leading family wealth prole in Korea.
ofce, to provide these clients with wealth management Standard Chartered also built planning tailored for families on its long relationship with in Asia and the Middle East.
Disney to be the ofcial bank Sponsorship of Spurs Standard Chartered sponsors Disneyland Hong Kong visit to Korea Standard Chartereds relationship with Disney goes back to We sponsored Tottenham Hotspur the 1960s, making it the ideal bank sponsor of Hong Kong Spurs, one of English footballs Disneyland, which opened in 2005.
Standard Chartered most prestigious teams, during the has targeted sponsorship opportunities in key markets to clubs recent trip to Seoul for the build its brand and capture the imagination of current and Korea Peace Cup, which they won.
16 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Business Review continued We aim to use honest, clear marketing to build credibility as a responsible financial institution and drive our brand values.
Both Consumer Banking importance is that 90 per cent initiative.
The working group Our commitment and Wholesale Banking apply of employees completed online approved policies on to our customers service metrics globally.
These Outserve training in 2005. governance, data protection, Standard Chartered wants are reviewed at the highest complaints and mis-selling.
The Group undertook analysis to be known for excellent level in each business.
Standard Chartered applies in 2005 in Consumer and service and for treating Improved data from Voice TCF to all employees, thirdWholesale Banking to identify customers according to of Customer surveys, party direct sales agents, what behaviour differentiates its values.
external collectors of overdue better capture of customer the best customer-facing At the core of the Groups payments and training and opinions and complaints, and employees.
We are using promise to be The Right recruitment agencies.
standardised service metrics this work to recruit, develop, Partner to our customers is have driven improvements train and reward employees As the financial services Outserve a set of initiatives throughout the Group.
in key roles to improve the industry becomes more started in 2004 to make experience of the customer.
competitive, sales techniques Standard Chartered renowned Training employees plays a are increasingly aggressive and for customer service by 2008.
Support functions such as key role in service.
In 2005, many customers do not trust We want Outserve to be a Risk Management and Human employees completed 250,000 financial services marketing.
source of distinction to build Resources joined the frontline e-learning courses, a 260 per This creates an opportunity customer loyalty, increase business in the Outserve cent increase on 2004. for Standard Chartered to revenue and create value.
initiative in 2005 with the aim In 2005, 7,000 employees differentiate itself.
of treating stakeholders such Outserve has four took part in ideas sessions as regulators, shareholders We aim to use honest, components: listening to that produced almost 3,200 and employees as we do clear marketing to build the Voice of the Customer, improvements across the our customers.
credibility as a responsible process improvements, Group.
The global Innovation financial institution and drive metrics and measurements, Treating customers fairly Week produced 2,500 our brand values of being and change management Standard Chartereds primary employee ideas posted online.
regulator is the UK Financial and Courageous.
Customers are starting to Services Authority FSA, one of The Group has made good feel the benefit of initiatives the worlds leading regulators.
Our Product Risk Committee progress against the four including later cut-off times The FSA introduced a Treating reviews all risks related to commitments made on for delivery of cash, faster Customers Fairly TCF initiative Consumer Banking products Outserve for 2005. delivery of new credit cards in 2004 and the Group has and new product programmes.
Implementation of the and more informative and applied its principles globally All Consumer Banking products Outserve model, which timely statements.
for both Consumer and go through the Committee.
covered 10 countries in Wholesale Banking.
There are 50 full-time Outserve Because there is a higher 2004, was expanded to champions across the Groups Responsible selling has risk of mis-selling complex the global network in 2005. markets and businesses, long been part of the Groups wealth-management reporting directly to the practice.
In 2005, a high-level products, these must be country chief executive or working group reviewed the approved at Group level for business head.
A further products, policies and appropriateness, pricing and indication of Outserves processes in light of the FSAs proposed marketing channels.
Country Bank of the Year Awards Standard Chartered was named Bank of the Year 2005 for Zimbabwe, Cte dIvoire, Tanzania, Sierra Leone, Botswana, Afghanistan and Brunei by The Banker magazine, recognising the Groups excellence in these markets.
com 17 The Right Partner to customers across the Groups markets Our focus on innovation, service and diversity, combined with our long history and local knowledge, means that we provide products and service to meet the distinctive requirements of local customers and communities.
high performers and six per We are represented by Helping employees Our commitment cent for high potential talent, 89 nationalities, across balance work and personal to our people commitments is important.
signicantly below the 56 countries and territories, The changing demographics and have close to 50 per cent In 2006 the Group will develop Groups overall average.
The in our markets serve to female representation globally.
a framework for exible competition for talent in key fuel competition for talent, Diversity and inclusion working and will seek to be growth markets will lead to making it more important are intrinsic and distinctive sensitive to individual needs a greater focus on employee and help employees balance than ever to attract, develop elements of our brand, core to retention in 2006. our values and to our approach their work and personal lives.
We believe in opportunities for to corporate responsibility.
A motivated workforce Standard Chartered employs growth through international Diversity through inclusion High levels of employee and cross-functional almost 44,000 people.
The engagement lead to lower will enable us to understand development moves.
In 2005, workforce increased by 14 and serve our stakeholders employee turnover, higher nearly 40 per cent of highper cent in 2005, excluding and make us the preferred productivity and better potential employees had employees of SC First Bank employer in our markets.
a development move, 16 and adjusted for leavers.
As We are focusing initially per cent internationally.
As a rapidly growing international In Hong Kong, branches with on gender and nationality.
a result, 60 per cent of senior organisation, we aim to high employee engagement managers and 10 per cent of attract people with the right Female representation at had 46 per cent lower junior managers have worked capabilities, develop their senior levels remained stable employee turnover and in more than one country produced 16 per cent higher talents and reward them in 2005 at 15 per cent.
adjusted for turnover and profit margin growth than based on their contribution.
growth in the workforce, those with lower engagement.
Each business area has a The Groups rapid growth senior female representation Business Risk Committee to A fifth year of measuring presents challenges as well identify areas of risk, including rose 19 per cent in 2005. employee engagement globally as opportunities in terms people risks.
Resourcing There are 45 nationalities in yielded a 96 per cent voluntary of lling roles with the right senior management and we and succession plans, data participation rate and a people, maintaining positive continue to build senior local collation and reporting, and continued improvement labour relations and retaining talent across our markets.
performance and reward in engagement.
strategies reduce employeeIn 2005 the Groups Diversity related risks globally.
The Group seeks to maintain and Inclusion Council We have a company-wide a culture primed for high established a framework process for identifying talent so Leveraging diversity performance.
Of the Groups We want all levels of the of aspirations, principles and that we can accelerate the eligible employees, 98 per workforce to reect the standards.
We also focused development of our best people.
cent received a twice-yearly on external benchmarking Groups diversity, to draw on performance appraisal in This process, combined of best practice, establishing the talents of all employees 2005, to recognise high with a reward and recognition a baseline of diversity and to have strong teams who performance and help identify approach that differentiates understand customers, metrics and engaging senior poor performance.
high performance, helps us regulators and communities.
managers in sponsorship and retain high-performing and implementation.
In 2006 the Deep local knowledge helps high-potential people.
Employee Group will do more to leverage us create opportunities and turnover is three per cent for its natural strength in diversity.
First sports-themed credit cards in UAE Standard Chartered introduced the first sports-themed credit cards in UAE in 2005.
The cards tap into the growing interest in sports in UAE, with cardholders receiving lifestyle privileges connected with the sports.
These innovative credit cards demonstrate Standard Chartereds leadership in the industry in UAE.
18 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Business Review continued Investing in the health, skills and education of communities makes good business sense, promoting sustainable development of the economy.
As a result of coaching and Base salaries, retirement In 2005 the Group agreed a Commitment action planning, 74 per cent of benets, bonuses and share new framework for selecting to communities 2004s underperformers are now community projects which awards are benchmarked competent or high achievers.
includes where to invest and against key competitors Long-term growth selection criteria for new and and our core benets depends not just on The first annual survey to existing programmes.
We are provided across our financial performance but evaluate the performancewant our activities to identify businesses and geographies.
on working in partnership management process showed us as a bank committed to with stakeholders to build that 83 per cent of employees All employees may participate making a lasting difference on the Groups brand received guidance to help in the Groups ShareSave to communities.
promise to Lead by Example improve their performance.
schemes and receive an and be The Right Partner Any investment must: An initiative for 2006 is to set award under one or more in the communities in which objectives as early as possible discretionary share plans Achieve long-term, it operates.
depending on performance sustainable and measurable and potential.
In 2005, 44 per As we focus on growing benets for the community Rewarding performance cent of employees participated our business, we must also We are committed to Involve employees, in the ShareSave schemes, respond to the long-term rewarding employees customers and suppliers a 22 per cent increase from challenge of promoting competitively.
We offer a 2004, and 3,100 employees sustainable growth and Allow the Group to play combination of market based received share awards in 2005, be ready to react to to its strengths and use salaries and benets, cash an increase of 23 per cent.
its expertise bonuses and share awards.
Group is looking to increase Standard Chartered has employee shareholding so Supporting communities To motivate and keep for many years encouraged that more employees share The Groups strong key individuals, the Group employees to take part in in our success.
performance allows it to introduced a half-year share community projects and support its host communities.
We will Standard Chartered performed it includes employee time, In 2005 Standard Chartered monitor the impact of this well in 2005 and there are estimated at $6.3 million for invested $22.4 million, initiative on performance and many opportunities to carry 2005, in the annual community or 0.84 per cent of profit employee turnover in 2006. on delivering for shareholders.
before taxation, in community Our markets are growing fast programmes and partnerships.
Our most prominent and we are intensifying work programmes cover the to give us the right products, Investing in the health, skills global issues of avoidable people and processes to take and education of communities blindness and HIV AIDS.
makes good business sense With deep roots in our by promoting sustainable Seeing is Believing markets and through our development of the economy, Of the worlds estimated relentless focus on innovation, the essential context for long- 37 million blind people, service and diversity, we aim term prosperity.
Contributing 75 per cent suffer from to be The Right Partner and to communities also helps avoidable blindness.
forge links with customers, governments and regulators This drive is underpinned and motivates employees.
by a desire to respond to challenges faced by our communities, allowing us to make a difference in a way that benets all our stakeholders.
The Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon makes a difference The Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon made a difference to the life of Samson Barmao left, the Kenyan athlete who won the race.
With his winnings of $18,750, Samson Barmao plans to improve the life of his family by building his mother a new house and buying some land.
The Group builds community activities and youth involvement around its marathons right.
com 19 UNICEF award for the Groups Living with HIV programme UNICEF awarded the Advance Humanity Corporate Award to Standard Chartered in Malaysia for the Groups efforts to increase understanding of HIV AIDS through its Living with HIV programme.
Standard Chartered is the first corporate recipient of the award.
Seeing is Believing is our funded through activities such imperative to ensure that corporate responsibility.
campaign, in partnership with as the Freetown Marathon, we have a healthy and stable Healthy economies are Sight Savers International, which raised $35,000 workforce and reects our also good for our business.
ORBIS International and drive for employee diversity Middle East The Qatar We help economies to grow VISION 2020, to raise enough and engagement.
Cricket with a Cause through the services we offer, money for one million sight initiative attracted pledges In 2006 we will invigorate the the jobs we create and the restorations.
The funds for every run scored by campaign and ensure that we taxes we pay.
raised go towards cataract have a consistent approach the Standard Chartered operations, training eye doctors Last year was the United cricket team across our markets.
We will and building training facilities Nations International further align the programme and vision centres through 12 Year of Microcredit.
Employees in over 40 to our business and use our projects in Africa and Asia.
Governments, especially countries raised money expertise and networks in the those in the developing world, through the sale of blue Standard Chartered raised ght against HIV AIDS.
The have identied microcredit, and green Seeing is money last year through the Group will produce its first also known as micronance, Believing wristbands generosity of employees, our bi-annual Living with HIV as a way to promote agship sponsors, customers, Report in 2006 to communicate Our aim is not only to raise financial inclusion and shareholders and other the global HIV AIDS situation awareness among customers alleviate poverty.
The $3 million and the achievements and and suppliers but more broadly In 2005 the Group introduced fundraising target was reached to increase public awareness goals of the programme.
a more formalised approach one year early in 2005. of avoidable blindness.
The We want to be respected to micronance to build on Group produced Seeing is Total funds raised were $3.8 past progress.
Among by our peers as a business Believing: the Story of VISION million through activities such programmes we started in leading by example and to 2020, a documentary lm as corporate sponsorships, 2005 were partnerships with encourage other companies presented by the Rt.
auctions, staff events and micronance institutions in to respond to this global Sir John Major, the former donation boxes in almost India and Ghana.
Our Living British Prime Minister, who 600 branches.
with HIV programme has As well as providing is an ambassador for VISION helped strengthen links with Country-level activities included: funding, the Group will 2020.
The programme was customers, suppliers and seek in 2006 to share its broadcast globally in October Asia a golf day in national authorities by sharing skills and knowledge with 2005 on BBC World to mark Singapore helped to raise best practice and helping with micronance institutions in World Sight Day.
For example, our three principal ways: the bus event in Indonesia In 2006, the Group will Living with HIV champions Helping micronance raised $10,000 ensure the campaigns sight have conducted HIV AIDS institution staff to develop restoration target is met and awareness sessions for Africa Sight Savers Sierra financial skills, for example decide on a strategy for the the British Embassy and Leone has restored 707 credit evaluation and future of Seeing is Believing.
sights since May 2005, financial management Living with HIV Helping economies grow Developing staff HIV AIDS affects many of Supporting economic volunteering programmes our markets in Africa and Asia.
development in countries with micronance institutions Our response to managing in Africa and Asia is a top to mentor promising HIV AIDS in the workplace priority for the Group that entrepreneurs within is based on a commercial their customer base ties in with its belief in Seeing is Believing hits Asian Corporate Social Responsibility Award target one year early The Asian CSR Award for Poverty Alleviation went ASIAN Employees, customers, to Standard Chartered Hong Kong for community CSR shareholders and agship initiatives undertaken throughout 2005 to raise AWARDS sponsors helped the Group funds for Seeing Is Believing.
It was chosen from achieve its $3 million fundraising 160 projects submitted by 91 companies across target for Seeing is Believing 12 countries in Asia.
one year ahead of schedule.
20 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Business Review continued Standard Chartered is part of the communities in which it operates and it is committed to helping them grow sustainably.
Providing thought leadership and business by any future processes to vet customers.
impacts on the environment by organising forums avian u pandemic.
Based Standard Chartered supports are our Global Environmental for global experts and on experience of the SARS the United Nations Global Management Systems GEMS practitioners to discuss virus, which also affected our Compact, which includes a and GEMS-lite.
We use these and recommend responses to measure and manage markets, the Group has put principle on tackling corruption to industry challenges.
An environmental impacts such in place a comprehensive and is a member of the UK example is the seminar held as energy use, greenhouse business continuity plan.
Forum of the Global Compact.
in Delhi in September 2005, gas emissions, paper use, In 2005 the Group introduced The environmental challenge Banking the Missing Middle: waste and water.
The Group has had an Strategies for Expanding Travel Tracker, an online environment programme The number of ofces Micronance, in collaboration management system that with the UK Foreign Policy for some time.
Climate change reporting under GEMS allows it to monitor employee Centre and the Confederation and other environmental issues increased to 36 in 2005 travel and locate employees of Indian Industry are increasingly important.
As from 27 in 2004, representing immediately in a crisis.
Travel a global company we have a an extra 3,851 employees Tracker has been implemented Health, safety and security responsibility to minimise the covered by the plan.
across the Group and was The health and safety of our environmental impact of our used to locate employees employees and the integrity of The percentage of people activities and build standards during the London, Bangladesh covered by GEMS rose to our business are of the utmost into how we do business.
and Jordan bombings and 65 per cent, not including importance.
Health and safety during the ood in India.
The Groups commitment SC First Bank, which will in the Group evolved in to environmental issues was be integrated in 2006.
2005 from a programme The Group will take highlighted by Group Chief to business as usual.
This further action to protect GEMS-lite is a compact Executive Mervyn Daviess included the launch of a global itself in 2006.
We will be e-learning version of GEMS participation in the UK rolling out enhanced e-learning management system and the designed to train employees Corporate Leaders Group on programmes on the prevention training of country health and in more than 500 small ofces.
This group of of money laundering and safety coordinators and key business leaders was formed The Groups response to terrorist nancing and will stakeholders in each market.
to provide the UK government the social and environmental install a specially trained An e-learning course on health with an informed position impacts of its lending activity transaction analysis team in on tackling climate change.
policy, responsibilities, re has been consistently our Chennai processing centre safety and first aid achieved 85 highlighted as one of the to support new transactionThe group reported to the per cent completion.
All further most important elements of its monitoring capabilities.
Prime Minister on the need for information is centralised on corporate responsibility agenda.
a policy framework for business Know Your Customer, the a Group intranet page, which to invest with confidence Standard Chartered adopted Groups lead programme to has averaged over 800 visits in technology opportunities the Equator Principles in 2003. combat financial crime and a month since it was launched.
In The Equator Principles are terrorist funding, has been 2006 this group will contribute a set of guidelines adopted In 2005 we responded to the upgraded and integrated to other environmental by financial institutions for threat posed to our employees into day-to-day business debates, including the Stern addressing environmental Review on the economics and social concerns in major of climate change.
The Groups project and export Our key internal platforms for finance team has developed managing the Groups direct Employee volunteering exceeds 44,000 days Standard Chartered employees worldwide spent over 44,000 days on volunteer work in 2005.
The work covered all types of community service, from planting trees to support the environment to social activities focusing on youth, health and education.
com 21 Disaster response Employee action Standard Chartereds work after the Asian tsunami and the Pakistan earthquake shows how it can combine Group level financial support, the spirit of its employees and its network to make a difference to communities in crisis.
a specic policy and set campaign for the reduction Asian tsunami The Asian tsunami of 26 December 2004 damaged many countries of procedures to assess, of energy use.
Read more on where the Group does business Indonesia, Sri Lanka, India, Thailand categorise and manage www.
com and Malaysia and tragically two employees were killed and a number environmental and social risks  of our people lost family members.
At Group level, Standard Chartered in project finance transactions.
donated $5 million to reconstruction after the tsunami.
Our employees Responding to crisis contributed a further $450,000 which, together with matching funds Standard Chartered has had In a world that has become from countries, resulted in a total of more than $5.8 million.
Most of a policy on environmental risk more interlinked and volatile, the funds raised in the network were pledged to NGOs such as the in lending since 1995 and people will look to global Red Cross and Christian Aid.
the Group added social companies to contribute when In all affected countries, employees collected and distributed essential and ethical factors after a communities are damaged items such as food and clothing.
The Group also used its branch network review in 2003.
Every credit by unexpected events.
In Indonesia, our Medan branch was established as a application, regardless control centre, operating a helpline to track down relatives of employees, In 2005 the Group showed of size, is subject to the and helping with travel arrangements out of Aceh.
how companies can respond same standards.
Social Other branches in Indonesia opened at the weekend to ensure swift to crisis in the wake of or environmental risk is processing of relief payments for NGO and development organisation the Asian tsunami and identied, evaluated and, clients.
In Thailand, employees provided translation services and general the Pakistan earthquake.
assistance at the British Embassy.
The Group continued its work during 2005 and was part of an International Business Leaders Forum task We acted quickly to contribute Standard Chartered has force that visited Sri Lanka, Thailand and India to assess the lessons and raise money to make a made great progress in its of the tsunami and how business could continue to contribute difference to individuals and to rebuilding efforts.
approach to corporate communities by utilising the responsibility in lending.
reach of our network and Practice in this area is the passion of our people.
developing rapidly and in 2005 the Group started a Standard Chartered is part review to align policies and of the communities in which it business strategy with its operates and it is committed principles.
The review aims to helping them grow to ensure consistent policies sustainably.
In 2006 we will that take into account work to instil our principles of Money was spent on rebuilding stakeholder views and corporate responsibility more schools and health clinics for reporting recommendations deeply while aligning our the benefit of local communities.
from the UNEP Financial community activities more Institutions Global Reporting closely with our business to Pakistan earthquake Initiative Task Force.
For share the benets of growth In October, Pakistan was devastated by an earthquake and the Group more information, visit with all our stakeholders.
We contributed $500,000 for immediate www.
org relief through the Presidents earthquake relief fund and NGOs, and have set aside an additional $500,000 to support continuing relief The Group intends to remain work.
We are looking to support projects aimed at the most vulnerable at the forefront of organisations and disadvantaged.
tackling the issue of climate Employees round the world took part in change.
In 2006, alongside the Groups Pakistan earthquake relief other initiatives, the Group fund week, raising $91,000 in 2005. will launch a focused Separately, SC First Bank employees raised more than $40,000.
In Pakistan, Standard Chartered employees have supported relief projects.
The Group has been active in raising funds from the public, for example through the customer SMS donation appeal and donations through the Standard Chartered website.
Rebuilding communities All cash machines across the Standard Chartered employees country display the earthquake played a part in building the appeal message.
Rajaprajanugrah school in Thailand which will house and educate To learn the lessons of these 1,000 tsunami orphans.
events and prepare the Group so that it can help in future, Standard Chartereds development organisations unit will formalise a crisis response plan in 2006.
