Operating and financial review Business review The Business review is divided into the following sections: 7 Introduction 8 Group structure 9 Group strategy 9 Build on our networked IT services capability 10 Deliver on broadband 11 Create convergent mobility solutions 12 Defend our traditional business vigorously 13 Drive for cost leadership 13 Keep a relentless focus on improving customer satisfaction 13 Transform our network for the twenty-first century 13 Motivate our people and live the BT values 14 Research and development and IT support 15 Property 15 Regulation, competition and prices 22 Relationship with HM Government 22 Legal proceedings Please see cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on page 128.
All customer numbers are given as at 31 March 2005, unless stated otherwise.
The denition, reconciliation and reasons for disclosing EBITDA earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation are discussed in the Financial review.
6BTGroup plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Introduction and connectivity: managed LAN local area network, BT Group plc is the listed holding company for an WAN wide area network and IPVPN internet protocol integrated group of businesses, which together form one virtual private network services: managed mobility: of the worlds leading providers of communications applications hosting: storage and security services: and solutions serving customers in Europe, the Americas and business transformation and change management the Asia Pacic region.
British Telecommunications plc is services.
a wholly-owned subsidiary of BT Group plc and holds virtually all businesses and assets of the BT group.
Governance Our aim is to increase shareholder value through BTs policy is to achieve best practice in our standards of service excellence, an effective brand, our large-scale business integrity in all our operations, in line with our networks and our existing customer base, and also published statement of business practice The Way We through innovation in products, services and solutions.
This includes a commitment to maintaining the Our principal activities include networked IT services: highest standards of corporate governance throughout local, national and international telecommunications the group see Corporate governance.
services: and higher-value broadband and internet products and services.
Corporate social responsibility We are committed to enhancing our positive impact on In the UK society through leadership in CSR corporate social BT is the UKs largest communications service provider, responsibility.
In our view, a well managed CSR by market share, to the residential and business markets, programme supports the delivery of strategy and is in the best interests of customers, shareholders, employees and supplying over 20 million customers with a wide range of the community see Our commitment to society.
communications products and services, including voice, data, internet and multimedia services, and offering a comprehensive range of managed and packaged Ofcoms Strategic Review of Telecommunications communications solutions.
Shortly after assuming its regulatory functions in Our core portfolio covers traditional telephony December 2003, the Ofce of Communications Ofcom products such as calls, analogue digital lines and private began conducting a Strategic Review of circuits.
New wave revenue generation is focused on Telecommunications, the aim of which is to consider the networked IT services, broadband and mobility.
scope for the further development of effective In the UK wholesale market, we provide network competition in the telecommunications sector.
services and solutions to over 600 communications The Review has found that although the UK companies, including xed and mobile network operators, telecommunications market has delivered significant ISPs internet service providers and other service benets for consumers and businesses, the current providers.
We interconnect with more than 180 other market situation is not acceptable or desirable going operators, as well as carrying transit trafc between forward.
Consequently, Ofcoms second consultation put telecommunications operators.
forward three options: & Our aim in these markets is to continue to increase withdrawal from regulation in favour of reliance on profitable revenues from data and advanced broadband competition law: & and internet services, further reducing our dependence on a market investigation reference to the Competition revenues and profit generated by traditional xed-line Commission under the Enterprise Act: or & voice services.
the delivery by BT to other industry participants of In the 2005 financial year, 91% of our revenues were real equality of access.
derived from operations within the UK.
BT supports the concept of a settlement based on equality of access which would, in our view, be an ideal Globally opportunity to focus regulation on economic bottlenecks We supply managed services and solutions to multi-site and reduce it elsewhere: sweep away the regulatory organisations worldwide our core target market is mesh that has grown up since 1984: and deliver 10,000 multi-site organisations including major regulatory stability and certainty, promoting the companies with significant global requirements, together confidence that market participants need if they are to with large organisations in target local markets.
Consequently, in our response to provide them with global reach and a complete range of Ofcoms second consultation we put forward a package of networked IT services.
proposals under which BT would make significant Our extensive global communications network and organisational and other changes to address issues of strong partnerships enable us to serve customers in the market confidence and transparency.
We stressed that as key commercial centres of Europe, North America and the part of this package, we would need Ofcom to take Asia Pacic region.
We own operations in the Americas, certain measures, notably to make a commitment to rapid Africa, the Asia Pacic region, Belgium, France, Germany, and significant deregulation.
Ireland, the Netherlands, Spain, Italy, Scandinavia, Ofcom is currently involved in discussions with BT and Switzerland and Central and Eastern Europe.
In a small others aimed at assessing whether a settlement based on number of countries we use a combination of direct sales equality of access would be feasible.
If it concludes it is and services capabilities and strategic partners to deliver not, it will consider adopting the second of the three the services our customers want.
We currently have options outlined above, ie an Enterprise Act reference.
employees in 12 countries in Asia Pacic, and operate See Regulation, competition and prices for more multiple sales ofces in the Americas.
information on Ofcoms proposals and BTs response.
Our global communications services portfolio includes: desktop and network equipment and software: transport Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 7 Group structure Also in October 2004, we acquired BIC Systems Group Background Limited for a cash consideration of 17 million, British Telecommunications plc, the successor to the consolidating our position in the networked IT services statutory corporation British Telecommunications, was sector in Northern Ireland.
incorporated in England and Wales as a public limited In December 2004, we completed the sale of our company, wholly owned by the UK Government, as a 15.8% stake in Eutelsat to GS Capital Partners an result of the Telecommunications Act 1984.
Between investment partnership afliated with Goldman Sachs November 1984 and July 1993, the UK Government sold for 357 million in cash.
In January 2005, we completed all of its shareholding in three public offerings.
the sale of our 4% stake in Intelsat to a consortium of In the 2002 financial year, BT undertook a radical private equity investors for 65 million in cash.
This restructuring, including the UKs largest-ever rights issue followed the sale in June 2004 of our 4.8% stake in raising 5.9 billion, the demerger of O2 comprising New Skies Satellites for 24 million in cash.
BTs wholly-owned mobile assets in Europe, the disposal In July 2004, we disposed of our 27.7% stake in of significant non-core businesses and assets, the unwind PayPoint Limited, a bill payment collection network of Concert BTs joint venture with AT&T and the operator, to various institutional investors for 34 million creation of customer-focused lines of business.
Acquisitions and disposals prior to the 2005 Post balance sheet acquisitions financial year In April 2005, we completed the acquisition of Radianz, In the 2003 financial year, we completed the sale of our the leading financial services extranet provider, from Reuters for a cash consideration of 107 million.
The 26% stake in Cegetel Groupe SA, the leading alternative purchase of Radianz is another vital step in our xed-line operator in France, for 2.6 billion in cash.
In addition, we disposed of a number of non-core transformation into a global provider of networked IT investments, including our stakes in BSkyB, Mediaset, Blu services.
Radianz will continue to provide high-quality and SmarTone.
extranet services for Reuters and the global financial In the 2004 financial year we sold our stake in services market.
Inmarsat, a global mobile satellite communications services company, and monetised our shareholding in LG How BT operates Telecom, a wireless telecommunications service provider BT consists principally of three lines of business: BT Retail, in the Republic of Korea.
We also acquired the UK BT Wholesale and BT Global Services.
operations of NSB Retail Systems, a supplier of software BT Retail and BT Wholesale operate almost entirely products and services, and Transcomm, a provider of within the UK, addressing the consumer, business and data-only wireless services in the UK.
wholesale markets, and offer a broad spectrum of communications products and services.
Acquisitions and disposals in the 2005 financial year BT Global Services addresses the networked IT services In February 2005, we completed the acquisition of needs of multi-site organisations including major Infonet, one of the worlds leading providers of companies with significant global requirements and large international managed voice and data network services, organisations in target local markets.
for 520 million, including acquisition costs.
Excluding Infonets net cash balance, the net value of the deal was Group turnover by customer segment 315 million.
year ended 31 March 2005 The acquisition of Infonet, re-branded BT Infonet, is a significant step forward in our strategy of addressing the 24% networked IT services needs of multi-site organisations.
It 30% Consumer will signicantly extend our global reach and will deepen our presence in North America and the Asia Pacic Business region.
BT Infonet has local operations and or distributors in 70 countries, remote network access in approximately Major corporate 180 countries and strong sales and support partnerships around the world.
Wholesale UK and global carrier Also in February 2005, we acquired the 74% of Albacom that we did not already own from our three joint 33% 13% venture partners ENI, BNL and Mediaset for a minimum of 80 million.
Including acquisition costs, and settlement of BTs share of Albacoms bank loan, the total Further analysis of group turnover is provided in the acquisition cost was 131 million.
BT has been active in Financial review.
the Italian business communications market since 1995 and Albacom provides data transmission, voice and Consumer customers internet services to more than 170,000 customers in that As at 31 March 2005, BT had approximately 19 million market.
We also signed outsourcing contracts with our UK consumer customers with around 20 million former joint venture partners.
residential customer lines exchange line connections.
In In October 2004, there was an IPO initial public the 2005 financial year, consumer revenues declined by offering of the Singapore telecommunications and media 6% to 5,637 million, primarily reecting the impact of company, StarHub, in which BT held an 11.9% stake.
By CPS carrier pre-selection and regulatory price reductions November 2004, we had disposed of our entire holding, to mobile termination rates.
through the IPO, for 78 million in cash.
8BTGroup plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Operating and financial review Our strategy in the consumer market is to defend Report structure traditional revenues and market share vigorously through For the purposes of this Business review, we are innovative service offerings backed by innovative reporting on each of our strategic imperatives.
marketing and excellent quality of service.
At the same For financial reporting purposes, we continue to report time, we are driving for new wave revenues, particularly in by line of business see Financial review.
the areas of broadband and mobility.
In the consumer market, new wave revenues grew by Group strategy 85% from 223 million in the 2004 financial year to 412 Our strategy is to build long-term partnerships with our million in the 2005 financial year, driven principally by customers.
With their support, we aim to maximise the broadband and mobility.
Residential broadband potential of our traditional business through a customers increased by 96% in the year to more than combination of enhanced quality of service, creative 1.3 million and mobility connections increased to marketing, innovative pricing and cost efficiency while 187,000 as at 31 March 2005. pursuing profitable growth by migrating our customers to new wave products and services such as networked IT Major corporate and business customers services, broadband, mobility and managed services.
As at 31 March 2005, we had around 1.5 million business We are also exploring new ways of doing business and customers worldwide, with nine million exchange lines in have, for example, set up a number of ventures to deliver the UK.
new revenue streams by taking an innovative and In the 2005 financial year, major corporate revenues entrepreneurial approach to our core business.
The increase in new We have eight strategic imperatives, five of which are focused on generating new wave revenues, defending wave turnover of 19% to 2,926 million was driven by revenue in traditional markets and operating with networked IT services, broadband and by mobility, not only in the UK but also globally.
maximum efficiency: Our strategy in the major corporate market is to & build on our networked IT services capability continue to migrate from traditional voice-only services to & deliver on broadband networked IT services.
This enables us to build closer, & create convergent mobility solutions more integrated, long-term, high-value relationships with & defend our traditional business vigorously & our customers, enabling them to manage their drive for cost leadership.
communications spend more effectively and gain These are underpinned by three further imperatives: & competitive advantage in their markets.
Such keep a relentless focus on improving customer relationships will, we believe, deliver long-term, satisfaction & sustainable, predictable and profitable revenues, more transform our network for the twenty-first century & than offsetting the decline in our traditional business motivate our people and live the BT values.
As at 31 March 2005, new wave turnover accounted for 48% of our total turnover in the major Build on our networked IT services capability corporate market.
Our strategy in the networked IT services market is to In the SME market typically companies with up to 500 reinforce BTs position as a global player capable of employees, our strategy is to provide business customers competing with the worlds best in selected growth with tailored communications products and services that markets.
Our portfolio of services covers a number of key enable them to manage their businesses more simply and areas including IP infrastructure, CRM customer efficiently.
Overall, in the SME market during the 2005 relationship management, security, applications, financial year, revenues reduced by 5% to 2,464 million managed mobility, hosting, and outsourcing.
primarily reecting the impact of CPS and WLR wholesale line rental.
Networked IT services for major corporate customers As business applications are increasingly being networked, Wholesale customers networks are seen as increasingly vital to productivity and Our strategy in the UK wholesale market is to continue to competitive advantage.
generate profitable revenues from our core market and ICT revenues for the 2005 financial year were 2,753 from new wave products in broadband, networked IT million, a rise of 18% on the 2004 financial year.
We aim services and mobility.
to deliver networked IT services globally to large business In the 2005 financial year, turnover from our wholesale customers and other organisations including the public activities increased by 9% to 4,396 million.
and government sectors, giving them the In the UK, external turnover from BTs wholesale communications tools they need for productivity and or activities was 3,812 million in the 2005 financial year, business improvement.
compared with 3,473 million in the 2004 financial year.
In the 2005 financial year, we secured networked IT New wave revenues were 664 million, up 84% on the services orders worth more than 7 billion.
This increase was driven by the contracts included: & success of broadband as well as a strong emphasis on Our highest prole success in the global market came customers as we aim to build innovative solutions that in March 2005 when it was announced that BT will be help our wholesale customers grow their businesses.
Reuters supplier of network services under a contract In our global carrier business, revenues were expected to be worth up to 1.5 billion over eight and 584 million in the 2005 financial year, compared with a half years.
BT will provide and manage secure data 557 million in the 2004 financial year.
Our global carrier networks for Reuters products and services worldwide.
& business customers include other xed-line We also signed a new voice and data communications telecommunications operators, mobile operators and deal with Barclays plc to provide enhanced selected ISPs.
communications infrastructure services for Barclays Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 9 UK operations.
The value of these services, including Deliver on broadband existing business, is expected to be in excess of 500 In the 2005 financial year, we continued our drive to million over the seven-year term.
enhance the awareness, availability and attractiveness of & A number of contract wins during the 2005 financial broadband and we are on target to bring broadband to year helped to confirm BTs European credentials and exchanges serving 99.6% of UK homes and businesses by capability.
For example, we signed an outsourcing the summer of 2005.
The UK now has the most extensive contract with French company THALES Group, an broadband network of all the countries in the G7 Group, international electronics and systems group serving the according to telecommunications analyst Ovum.
defence, aeronautics, security and services markets.
We believe that the key issues in todays broadband The five-year contract covers the management of markets are speed and price, but that, going forward, xed-voice and data network services for THALES and applications will increasingly prove to be a competitive its subsidiaries in up to 42 countries.
& We signed a multi-year managed services agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb to manage its LAN and WAN Broadband for wholesale customers infrastructure globally.
As part of the agreement, BT In early April 2005, we reached our target of five million will migrate these services to a state-of-the-art, highbroadband lines, one year ahead of schedule.
Since we speed, IP-based global MPLS multi-protocol label first announced the target, take-up has continued to switching infrastructure.
accelerate whereas it took a year to reach our first & We were awarded a global network outsourcing million, the fifth million took just four months.
Since contract with South Korea-based CyberLogitec, the IT September 2004, we have been connecting someone to subsidiary of Hanjin Shipping.
With a sales order value broadband every ten seconds of every day.
In total, 4,419 of 18 million, this is one of the largest contracts won exchanges had been upgraded by the end of the 2005 by BT in the Asia Pacic region.
financial year, reaching almost 97% of the UKs homes & National Air Trafc Service awarded us a 32 million and businesses.
Broadband is now one of the fastest contract to provide a system to carry all growing consumer products of all time.
communications between its radar, communication and air trafc control centre sites and its IT network.
BT Wholesale DSL broadband connections thousands & In addition to the range of large deals, we secured more than 300 networked IT services contracts each worth between 1 million and 5 million during the 2005 financial year.
& In April 2005, we won an extension to 2012 of a contract to deliver essential telecommunications services to the Ministry of Defence MoD and the UKs armed forces.
Between April 2005 and July 2012, the Defence Fixed Telecommunications Systems public private partnership contract between the MoD and BT will be worth up to 1.5 billion, bringing the total value of the contract to more than 2.7 billion.
& We underlined our position as a global networked IT services company with the launch of a major business-to-business advertising and marketing Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 campaign in September 2004.
The campaign ran in 2003 2004 2005 multiple languages in international and local media across Europe, the Americas and the Asia Pacic & region.
In February 2005, Northern Ireland became the first UK region outside London to have all its exchanges Networked IT services for wholesale customers enabled for broadband.
As at 1 March 2005 as a We believe that the convergence of IT and result of a 10 million partnership between BT and communications technologies creates commercial One Northeast, the regional development agency for opportunities for communications providers, and our northeast England all 181 exchanges in the region strategy is to enable these providers to take full had been upgraded.
In April 2005, we won the 16.5 advantage of such opportunities.
million public tender with the Scottish Executive to We have a long and successful tradition of delivering bring broadband to the most remote communities in network-based connectivity to the carrier and the UK.
We will enable 378 exchanges to deliver intermediate telecommunications markets throughout the broadband to 51,000 households and 5,400 UK, and have developed value-enhancing services and businesses.
We have a number of agreements with service During the 2005 financial year, we removed the providers and mobile operators to upgrade their IP distance-related limits on our most popular broadband capability.
In addition, we have used our expertise and services, bringing around one million more UK homes geographic reach to provide ubiquitous, bespoke data and businesses within reach of broadband.
As the broadband market has matured, new Our plans for our twenty-first century network 21CN applications, including video and music downloads and will enable the delivery of further integrated network and videoconferencing, have driven a demand for communications solutions to our customers and their increasing speed.
Since April 2005, we have been end-user customers.
testing speeds of between 2Mbit s and 8Mbit s with a 10 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Operating and financial review 277 391 555 800 1,058 1,339 1,753 2,215 2,687 3,294 4,107 4,932 view to launching higher-speed wholesale services in maximise the major opportunities offered by online the second half of 2005.
In addition, we are trialling a trading and teleworking.
variant of ADSL asynchronous digital subscriber line BT Business Broadband remained the leading ISP for broadband, known as ADSL2, which may support SMEs in the UK.
At the end of the 2005 financial year, we speeds of more than 20Mbit s. had over 340,000 BT Business Broadband customers and & With effect from April 2005, we reduced the wholesale were adding 250 a day.
More than half opt for such valuecost to service providers of our BT IPStream and BT added services as the Internet Security Pack and the DataStream ADSL products by an average of 8% in Internet Business Pack.
In January 2005, we created an online payments & We also announced details of the next 500 exchanges business by bringing together BT Click&Buy and our to be upgraded to provide SDSL synchronous digital online card payment service, BT Buynet, which subscriber line services.
SDSL offers the same rate currently process almost 17 million transactions a year upstream and downstream and is particularly suitable between them.
The new business will offer an for the SME market.
By April 2006, we aim to SDSLextensive range of payment solutions to the rapidly enable 1,300 exchanges, covering more than two growing online retail market.
BT Business Broadband Voice, launched in November & During the 2005 financial year, we redesigned and 2004, gives small businesses throughout the UK access reduced the price for our LLU local loop unbundling to VOIP voice over IP services and enables them to product see Regulation, competition and prices use their broadband connections to reduce costs for Local Loop Unbundling byupto 70% in a phased multiple business lines.
On average, BT Broadband series of price cuts which will, we believe, make it Voice offers customers savings of more than 60% easier for LLU operators to invest in broadband compared with second line rental.
As at 31 March 2005, LLU operators were providing service to 40,000 lines Create convergent mobility solutions from more than 600 exchanges, many of which were In a convergent world, individuals and businesses multi-operator sites.
increasingly need to connect and communicate whenever and wherever they happen to be, using whatever devices Broadband for consumers they choose.
As at 31 March 2005, in the highly competitive retail Our aim is to offer all our customers the right market, our share of consumer and business DSL combination of the quality, reliability, cost advantages broadband connections in the UK was 36% 1.75 million and bandwidth associated with xed-line communications, connections.
and the convenience, personalisation and mobility BT is the UKs leading service provider of broadband, associated with mobile communications.
offering a family of broadband packages designed to meet In the 2005 financial year, we launched BT Mobile as the diverse needs of our customers.
Key packages include an MVNO mobile virtual network operator running over BT Broadband Basic and BT Broadband which offer rapid, the Vodafone network.
Becoming an MVNO is always-on internet access: BT Yahoo!
Broadband which fundamental to building our mobility customer base, also provides a fuller range of benets, including multiple driving the wireless broadband market and developing email addresses, virus protection, personalised music, and delivering compelling convergence propositions and parental controls, protection against unsolicited email and one converged customer experience.
evolving applications and content: and BT Communicator Project Bluephone is a converged mobile service, with Yahoo!
enabling customers to use a single device that can switch & We transformed our retail broadband offering, by seamlessly between xed and mobile networks.
This will announcing the transfer of our customers to a new provide customers with the convenience of mobile super-fast standard, beginning in February 2005.
Most combined with the cost and quality advantages of a xedconsumer and business customers will have their line phone.
We plan to launch Project Bluephone shortly.
broadband speed increased to up to 2Mbit s up to We believe that a partnership strategy is fundamental four times faster than previous speeds at no extra to our success and we are working hard through the cost.
The introduction of 2Mbit s as standard will FMCA Fixed Mobile Convergence Alliance to develop enable customers to get more from their broadband open industry standards and through the WBA Wireless link and paves the way for a range of new services.
Broadband Alliance to drive Wi-Fi public wireless & BT will also use broadband to make new services, such broadband hotspot proliferation, global roaming and user as video on demand and interactive TV, available to satisfaction.
Revenue in the mobility market in the 2005 financial & In July 2004, we launched BT Communicator with year was 205 million, an increase of 107% on the 2004 Yahoo!
This integrated software package, financial year.
downloadable from the internet, gives customers a As at 31 March 2005, BT Mobile had over 372,000 truly convergent, multi-media communications business and consumer connections.
experience, enabling them to manage all their home communications phone calls, emails, texts, instant Mobility for consumers messaging and webcam together in one place on In the consumer mobility market our strategy is to build a their PC.
foundation for the delivery of added-value, xed mobile convergent solutions.
& Broadband for business customers In January 2005, we launched BT Mobile as an MVNO We believe that the introduction of 2Mbit s ADSL with Vodafone in the consumer market.
BT Mobile is broadband as standard will help business customers cost-effective for families, offering up to five additional Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 11 handsets.
Other benets include free short calls from a were also significant elements in our revenue defence BT Mobile phone to a designated home number and a strategy in the 2005 financial year.
& In September 2004, we introduced CallMobile, a discount package offering customers up to 40% Mobility for business customers savings on all xed-to-mobile calls.
& BT is a service provider in the business mobility market During the 2005 financial year, we developed two new with more than 185,000 business connections at 31 March products to help customers protect themselves against 2005.
We provide a range of managed mobile services to internet dialler problems.
BT Modem Protection is a UK and global customers who either outsource their free software download, which will prevent a mobile communications entirely or rely on BT to provide customers computer dialling high-cost, premium rate specic managed services.
We have also developed an & In November 2004, we launched our BT Mobile MVNO early warning alert in the form of a text or voice business in the SME and corporate market, offering a message to their mobile or xed-line phone for range of mobile services including a mobile VPN customers whose bill rises signicantly above the usual service BT Business Circle and mobile conferencing.
We can then put in place an immediate & We are a leading UK provider of Wi-Fi services.
BT premium rate bar on the line and or suggest other Openzone offers customers a high-speed, wireless barring options.
As at 31 March 2005, around one broadband connection over which they can access the million BT customers had signed up for one or more of internet, send and receive emails with attachments these barring services.
& and connect to a corporate network.
As at 31 March We manage around 87,000 public payphones, 2005, our customers had access to more than 7,500 including more than 1,300 multimedia kiosks and hotspots throughout the UK and more than 20,000 more than 1,400 textphones throughout the UK.
Although we remain committed to ensuring that public payphones are available in communities throughout Mobility for wholesale customers the UK, future growth opportunities will focus on In the 2005 financial year, we continued to implement our maximising returns from existing sites and capabilities, strategy in the UK wholesale mobile arena to maximise including e-kiosks and content services, as well as the volume and value of wireless trafc by developing and hosting CCTV closed circuit TV facilities and mobile launching innovative products and services.
& & For example, we launched Fixed Line Text a fully Following our re-entry into the printed classied managed service that enables the exchange of SMS directory market, the Phone Book continued to be messages between xed line and xed line, xed line successful in the 2005 financial year, with all 171 and mobile and mobile and xed line.
editions now including a new classied section.
A new & In March 2005 we launched a mobile managed bulk milestone will be reached in mid-June 2005, from SMS, which enables customers to send and receive which date all editions will include classied advertising multiple text messages via the internet to and from in colour.
Traditional services for business customers & Defend our traditional business vigorously In the 2005 financial year, we made a number of We face continued challenges in our traditional markets enhancements to our BT Business Plan.
In May 2004, as a result of regulatory intervention, competition and a in response to EU enlargement, we extended the shift in our customers buying patterns, as we provide benets of BT Business Plan by including ten new them with higher-specication, high-value, new wave entrant countries in the 20 pence cap on calls to products.
Europe lasting less than one hour.
In August 2004, we Total xed-to-xed voice call minutes in the UK market extended BT Business Plan to cover all business as a whole declined by 3% in the 2005 financial year.
This customers, irrespective of size or spend.
And from was driven by customers making use of alternatives such September 2004, we cut the cost of xed-to-mobile as mobile calls, email, instant messaging, corporate calls by 25% to 30% and offered BT Business Plan IPVPNs and VOIP.
customers the chance to opt for a 30 pence cap on all However, the measurement of call minutes is less xed-to-mobile calls lasting less than one hour.
At important to BT as customer take-up of pricing packages 31 March 2005, BT Business Plan had over 440,000 continues and we actively encourage the migration of locations, up 67% on the 2004 financial year.
& customers to new wave services such as broadband.
Our BT Local Business initiative helped to secure BTs position as a key player in the SME market.
At the end Traditional services for consumers of the 2005 financial year, BT Local Business was & On 1 July 2004, we abolished the standard rate and active in 83 locations around the country, managing switched all existing standard rate customers to BT 1.2 billion of annual billed turnover.
Together Option 1, offering them better value for money and making it easier for them to compare our Traditional services for wholesale customers prices with those of our competitors.
We also reduced In the 2005 financial year, despite average price the price of Option 1 by 1 a month, offering savings reductions of 7% and growing competitive pressure in the to the five million customers who were already on this UK market, wholesale revenues from traditional activities option.
We continued to invest in & BT Together Option 2, which offers free UK evening improvements to our processes and systems, reducing and weekend calls, and BT Together Option 3, which both provision and repair times.
offers free UK daytime, evening and weekend calls, 12 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Operating and financial review & We continued to develop our capability as a supplier of more than 121 million kilometres of copper wire and more network facilities management.
For example, we are than seven million kilometres of optical bre, and we have providing maintenance support to the physical eld the most extensive IP backbone network in the UK.
The and core switching elements of O2s 3G network.
network services we provide include Frame Relay, ATM & As at 31 March 2005, our wholesale line rental product asynchronous transfer mode and IPVPN.
had over one million end users, with revenues up 51 million in the 2005 financial year.
Our global reach & We have also enhanced our data connectivity portfolio BT has one of the broadest IP-enabled networks in Europe with the launch of a range of Ethernet LAN products and our network-based services extend to and across and higher bandwidth circuits.
This has enabled us to North and South America and the Asia Pacic region, and grow revenues from the provision of infrastructure to are delivered locally through interconnect and supply other network providers.
& Product launches in the 2005 financial year included As at 31 March 2005, our agship MPLS product Wholesale Extension Service a high-speed, point-toprovided coverage and support to 72 countries from over point data circuit providing a secure link between a 1,000 points of presence.
MPLS revenues grew by 48% third party customer site and a communication during the 2005 financial year.
providers networks and BT Enterprise Ethernet a Global customer service is provided via service and low bandwidth variant of the MegaStream Ethernet network management centres around the world, 24 hours product, offering many of the characteristics of a a day, seven days a week.
traditional private circuit, but with the added benefit of low-cost Ethernet interface.
Transforming our networks, systems and services for the twenty-first century Drive for cost leadership Our 21CN programme will lead to the simplication of We remain focused on financial discipline and our cost BTs complex multiple networks, making it easier for us, efficiency programmes achieved savings of around 400 and other operators who interconnect with BTs network, million in the year.
This has enabled us to invest in to deliver compelling converged services.
growing our new wave activities.
We aim to deliver at The 21CN programme has three broad goals: & least 300 million to 400 million of savings in each of to enhance the service experience, exibility and value the next three years.
we provide to all our customers: & We aim to deliver this by focusing on the cost of to accelerate the delivery of innovative new products failure, complexity and duplication and by working and services to market: and & smarter.
For example, at 31 March 2005 we had 6.2 to reduce costs radically.
million on-line relationships with customers through Technical trials began in the 2005 financial year.
com and almost two million customers receiving e-bills.
example, we launched a voice transformation trial, We continue to benchmark ourselves against the best in moving voice trafc from the traditional PSTN public the industry and set targets accordingly.
switched telecommunications network onto an IP network.
Keep a relentless focus on improving customer We made significant progress towards completing the satisfaction detailed technical and architectural designs to support the Reducing customer dissatisfaction by 25% a year over implementation of 21CN.
three years, on a compound annual basis, to the 2005 In April 2005, we announced the preferred suppliers financial year was a key target in our drive to deliver the that we expect will help to build and implement the highest levels of customer satisfaction.
This was the culmination of two years of financial year, for the third year in a row, all lines of discussions and negotiations with over 300 potential business reduced customer dissatisfaction levels.
This technology suppliers and is one of the largest result is based on quantitative customer research procurement programmes ever undertaken in the conducted by independent external agencies and communications industry.
The eight preferred suppliers represents a group-wide reduction of 23% on a compound chosen are: Alcatel, Ciena, Cisco, Ericsson, Fujitsu, annual basis over the past three years.
We expect to conclude The quality of service we provide to our customers is contractual discussions with these preferred suppliers in key to improving customer satisfaction.
Much of our summer 2005. training and development activity remains focused on A programme of industry consultation Consult21 removing any barriers to the delivery of excellent was launched in the 2005 financial year to promote a customer service and a high-quality customer experience.
shared understanding with industry of the 21CN vision Our core people engagement initiative is the my customer and the progress we are making, giving our wholesale programme, which aims to enable all BT people to deliver customers an opportunity to input and inuence its great customer service through teamwork.
issues have been identied and resolved.
More than 4,000 people are members of teams tasked with making Motivate our people and live the BT values further improvements as part of the 2005 my customer Our customers have a right to expect that we will Challenge Cup.
understand their needs and live our brand values.
This presents the 102,100 people employed by BT at 31 March Transform our network for the twenty-first century 2005 with opportunities to develop innovative solutions, Our UK network today generate new business, drive efficiencies, and experience BT has the most comprehensive communications network personal growth.
in the UK, with 684 local and 135 trunk processor units, Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 13 Our vision is of high-performing, engaged and motivated The majority of new employees are eligible to join the BT people who can make a difference for customers, Retirement Plan.
shareholders, the company and themselves.
Only by living our values trustworthy, helpful, straightforward, Health and safety inspiring and heart will we deliver our strategy, keep our The health and safety of our people is of paramount promises to our customers, seize new opportunities in importance.
We have a zero tolerance of workplace new markets and re-invent our traditional business.
accidents, and have reduced the number of reportable employee accidents from 146 cases per 10,000 Developing leaders employees in the 2001 financial year to 61 cases per The quality of leadership in the company is key to the 10,000 employees in the 2005 financial year.
successful delivery of our strategy for transformation and In the 2005 financial year, we launched the Health and growth and we have updated and rened our approach to Wellbeing Forum to promote ways of working that help using selection agencies for key posts, while the core people balance the demands of their work and personal leadership development programme, introduced in 2003, lives, as well as focusing on specic healthcare issues.
We continues to drive our management development also developed an in-house process to help BT people initiatives.
Engaging and motivating our people Learning now and for the future Our annual employee attitude survey was conducted most Our successful company-wide re-accreditation to Investors recently in February 2005. in People in February 2005, first achieved in 1998, demonstrates our continuing commitment to the effective Among the key results were that 89% of our people alignment of our communications, training and have a clear understanding of how their work contributes to BTs success, and seven out of ten employees are development with our business strategy.
willing to try new ways of doing things.
To improve the effectiveness and efficiency of our The survey generates around 5,000 feedback reports training delivery, we conducted a strategic review of our for managers and their teams across the business, helping training suppliers in the 2005 financial year, reducing to promote effective team working.
This will contribute to yearEmployees are kept informed about our business on-year savings of at least 3.4 million.
through a wide range of communications channels, The development opportunities available to our people including our online news service, monthly newspaper, range from one-to-one coaching, using a combination of regular email bulletins and senior management web chats internal and external professional coaches, to the BTand web cast briengs.
sponsored MBA programme, which has produced 54 In the UK, two main trade unions are recognised by graduates in the past three years.
In continental Europe, we work closely with the works councils, both on an operational basis and as Embedding exibility and diversity strategic stakeholders.
The changing nature of the markets in which we operate, our focus on cost leadership and our investment in new Rewarding and recognising achievement services have impacted the shape of our permanent In the 2005 financial year, we introduced a new reward workforce.
Salary ranges are now During the 2005 financial year, 3,903 2004 2,287 aligned with the going rate for equivalent jobs across a people joined BT, natural attrition was running at 2.6% range of comparable organisations, geographies and skill 2004 2.4% and, in the UK, 2,685 2004 4,814 sets.
This ensures we remain competitive, and are able to people left BT under our voluntary paid leaver package.
recruit and retain the people we need.
We are committed to helping our people optimise their We also continued to provide our employees with work life balance.
At the end of March 2005, for example, more than 8,900 people were working mainly from home.
opportunities to acquire a stake in the company.
Under the BT Employee Share Investment Plan ESIP, BT can We continue to create a working environment that provide free shares to employees and, in addition, actively supports all our employees regardless of gender, employees can purchase shares in the company from their race, sexual orientation, disability or age.
In the 2005 financial year, 11 million was allocated to provide free shares to employees under Research and development and IT support the ESIP.
Employees outside the UK receive a cash Through our IT division, BT Exact, we offer the services of payment equivalent to the value of the shares.
This thousands of IT professionals with knowledge of leadingallocation of profits was linked to the achievement of edge network design and IT systems and application corporate performance measures determined by the development, together with skills in innovation, change Board.
In addition, employees can buy shares at a management and IT operations.
discount under our savings-related share option plans.
Over the last year, we have transformed our approach Over 98% of eligible employees participate in one or to internal and external systems development through the more of these plans.
establishment of 90-day design, development and delivery cycles, accelerating our ability to deliver systems which Pensions support product development and all our customers to Most of our employees are members of the BT Pension much tighter timescales and much higher levels of right Scheme or the BT Retirement Plan, both of which are first time delivery.
We are also developing new highcontrolled by independent trustees.
The BT Pension quality online ways for customers to deal with us, in an Scheme was closed to new members on 31 March 2001. intuitive and comprehensive manner.
14 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Operating and financial review The GCTO Group Chief Technology Ofce sets and the obligations imposed by, or under, the UKs drives the innovation and technology strategy for BT.
Communications Act 2003 the Communications Act and GCTO includes a global technology intelligence scouting the Competition Act 1998 the Competition Act while unit, teams focused on innovative new wave service competing fairly and vigorously within the rules.
We opportunities, an innovation design and media team, publish an annual compliance report which can be found strategic technology analysis units, a network and systems in our social and environment report at www.
com architecture team and world-class research and venturing betterworld facilities in Adastral Park England and Malaysia.
The work undertaken by GCTO is part of BTs 257 Ofcom million investment in research and development in the The UK regulatory environment changed materially in July 2005 financial year.
This compares with 334 million and 2003, when the Communications Act came into force, 380 million invested in the 2004 and 2003 financial bringing in a new regulator, the Ofce of Communications years, respectively.
We continue to focus our innovation Ofcom, and a new regulatory framework for electronic work on key areas which support our business and communications networks and services.
technology strategies, ling 109 new patent applications Ofcom was set up as a result of the increasing in the 2005 financial year and maintaining a total patent convergence between telecommunications, broadcasting portfolio of 7,400 patents and applications.
Among the and radio, to provide a single, seamless approach to awards won by our technology research team was the regulation across the whole converging marketplace.
It British Computing Societys IT Developer of the Year.
amalgamated the roles of five former regulatory agencies: BT is a limited partner in the independent corporate the Director General of Telecommunications Oftel, the Independent Television Commission, the Broadcasting venturing partnership, NVP Brightstar, which generates Standards Commission, the Radio Authority and the value by launching key innovations as new hightechnology businesses.
Ofcom is headed by a board consisting of a chairman, Property executive and non-executive members.
Currently, the At 31 March 2005, BT occupied approximately 6,600 chairman is Lord Currie and the chief executive is Stephen properties, located principally in the UK.
property portfolio is owned by Telereal Group, a 50 50 Ofcom has a wide range of general and specic duties joint venture between Land Securities Trillium and William laid down in the Communications Act.
summary of those duties and functions of particular The majority of these properties are specialised relevance to BTs activities: & operational buildings.
They mainly house exchange the principal duty to further the interests of citizens in equipment and are needed as part of BTs continuing relation to communications matters and, secondly, to activities.
Other, general purpose, properties consist further the interests of consumers, where appropriate, chiey of ofces, depots and computer centres.
In doing so, Ofcom must Our property strategy is to continue to reduce costs, at secure, among other things, the availability of a wide the same time as increasing usage and income range of electronic communications services in the UK: & generation.
the duty to have regard to the principles under which In the 2005 financial year, we sublet an additional its regulatory activities should be transparent, 21,000sqm of ofce space, vacated 158,000sqm of space accountable, proportionate, consistent and ready for disposal and successfully disposed of Mondial appropriately targeted: & House in London for 51 million.
the duty to review regulatory burdens on a regular basis and ensure that they do not involve the Regulation, competition and prices imposition or maintenance of unnecessary burdens: The commercial environment in the UK and in the and & countries in which BT operates is increasingly competitive the functions of setting conditions of entitlement see and dynamic.
However, we remain subject to extensive Regulatory conditions, and enforcing those regulation, particularly in the UK, which can materially conditions see Enforcement.
Ofcoms decisions are affect the way in which we carry out our business.
We also subject to appeal on the merits see Appeals.
use inputs, such as networks and services from other In carrying out its duties, Ofcom must consider regulated operators, largely outside the UK, and the promoting competition and the use of effective availability and price of these inputs may change from self-regulation, encouraging investment and innovation, time to time, which in turn affects our business.
and encouraging the availability and use of high-speed data services including broadband.
Regulation in the UK It is our policy to be fully compliant with the regulatory Regulatory conditions framework in which we operate.
During the 2005 financial Under the new framework, based on 2003 EU Directives, year, we continued to strengthen our compliance providers may no longer be required to obtain licences activities and, in addition, we have worked closely with before offering telecommunications services.
Individual compliance professionals in the telecommunications and licences, such as that granted to BT in 1984, no longer other regulated industries in the UK to establish best exist.
Instead, there is a general authorisation for the practice.
We have been in contact with European provision of electronic communications networks and telecommunications companies with the intention of services.
sharing ideas and best practice and bringing Regulation is applied through separate sets of improvements to the UK market.
Our compliance policy conditions made by Ofcom, of which some apply to all remains focused on ensuring that we continue to meet relevant communications providers.
Others are imposed Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 15 individually on particular providers which, following a concept of dominance.
Economic regulation can only be review of the relevant markets, are found to have imposed following a market review and nding of SMP.
significant Market Power SMP or are designated as In markets where Ofcom nds that a provider has Universal Service Providers.
Other general obligations SMP, it must impose appropriate additional obligations in are set out in the Communications Act.
The general and the form of SMP conditions as specified in the specic obligations that form BTs regulatory environment Communications Act.
These may include obligations to are described below.
meet reasonable requests to supply certain services to other communications providers, not to unduly Conditions applying to all providers of electronic discriminate, and to notify price changes.
In some cases, communications networks or services additional obligations relating to, for example, price General conditions control and regulatory accounting have also been The foundation of the new regulatory framework is the set imposed.
of general obligations referred to in the Communications The market reviews relevant to xed Act as General Conditions.
These apply to all providers telecommunications that Oftel and Ofcom have of electronic communications networks or services, conducted are listed below.
For each review, the markets including systemless service providers and internet in which BT has been determined to have SMP are shown.
These conditions are mainly concerned All references to UK markets, except wholesale trunk with consumer protection, but also address matters such segments and broadband conveyance, exclude the Hull as general access and interconnection obligations, area.
& standards, emergency planning and numbering.
In Fixed narrowband retail markets in the UK: addition, a separate condition has been set regulating the residential analogue lines, residential ISDN2 lines, provision of premium rate services.
business analogue lines, business ISDN2 lines, ISDN 30 lines, residential local calls, residential national Electronic Communications Code conditions calls, residential calls to mobile, residential operator The Electronic Communications Code deals with powers assistance calls, residential international direct-dialled to carry out streetworks and similar activities for the calls, business local calls, business national calls, purposes of providing networks and its application is business calls to mobile, business operator assistance subject to conditions made by the Secretary of State for calls.
Fixed narrowband wholesale markets in the UK: residential analogue lines, residential ISDN2 lines, Other general obligations business analogue lines, business ISDN2 lines, ISDN Other obligations corresponding to former licence 30 lines, call origination, local-tandem conveyance and conditions under the old framework now apply directly transit, inter-tandem conveyance and transit, single through provisions of the Communications Act.
& & the payment of administrative charges broadly the Fixed geographic call termination markets in the UK: equivalent of licence fees under the old framework : xed geographic call termination provided by BT and and other members of the BT group of companies.
& & the provision of information to Ofcom when required Wholesale international services markets: to do so.
wholesale international services on 108 country routes.
& Wholesale unmetered narrowband internet termination Conditions applying to BT only markets: Universal Service Obligation conditions BT was not found to have SMP in any market BT has been designated as the supplier of Universal considered in this market review.
& Service for the UK excluding the Hull area, where Retail leased lines, symmetric broadband origination Kingston Communications is the designated provider.
The and trunk segments markets: services covered by the Universal Service Obligation USO retail traditional interface leased lines at speeds up to are dened in an Order issued by the Secretary of State and including 8Mbit s: wholesale traditional interface for Trade and Industry.
Our basic obligation is to provide symmetric broadband origination at speeds up to and a single narrowband connection to the xed telephone including 8Mbit s: wholesale traditional interface network, but additional USO conditions relate to issues symmetric broadband origination at speeds above such as schemes for consumers with special social needs 8Mbit s and up to and including 155Mbit s: wholesale and the provision of payphone services.
alternative interface symmetric broadband origination Ofcom is currently reviewing the USO.
The review is at all bandwidths.
Wholesale trunk segments at all focused on delivering the current Universal Service bandwidths.
& arrangements and is being carried out alongside Ofcoms Wholesale broadband access markets in the UK: Strategic Review of Telecommunications see Other asymmetric broadband origination: broadband significant changes and issues Strategic Review of conveyance.
& Telecommunications which looks at longer-term Wholesale local access markets in the UK: Universal Service issues.
The Communications Act allows Ofcom to review markets significant Market Power conditions for end-user apparatus and impose conditions on any The Communications Act, implementing the EU Directives provider designated with SMP.
The conditions which may be on which the regulatory framework is based, requires imposed are limited to conditions relating to accounting Ofcom to define and analyse markets market review separation, cost accounting, and price control for hardwired and to determine whether any communications provider telephone rental charges.
Ofcom has decided that BTs price has SMP, which is aligned with the competition law controls in respect of rental of hardwired telephone 16 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Operating and financial review apparatus, brought forward from the old regulatory regime, Competition should be removed and replaced by written undertakings The competitive environment rather than by SMP apparatus conditions.
The UK telecommunications market is fully open and The Act obliges Ofcom to carry out further analyses of highly competitive.
markets which have been reviewed at such intervals as it Although it is some years since the considers appropriate.
In the Phase 2 consultation Telecommunications Act 1984 abolished the monopoly of document in the Strategic Review of Telecommunications, the former statutory corporation, British Ofcom has made proposals for a number of market Telecommunications, obligations placed on BT, including reviews over the coming years.
Ofcom is currently pricing regulation, network access, non-discrimination, carrying out a review of the Number Translation Services the provision of universal service and cost accounting NTS Call Termination market.
accounting separation, are generally more onerous than for other providers of electronic communications networks Enforcement and services.
The Communications Act sets out the enforcement process to be followed in relation to breaches of Competition and the UK economy conditions.
Where a breach is not remedied following The growth of mobile over the past decade has been a preliminary notication by Ofcom, Ofcom may take major factor in shaping the UKs telecommunications legally enforceable enforcement action and or impose a landscape.
Mobile now accounts for approximately 30% of penalty of up to 10% of relevant turnover.
In addition, a total UK voice minutes.
BTs market share of the total UK person who suffers loss or damage as a result of a breach voice market, including mobile, is estimated to have fallen may, with Ofcoms consent, sue for damages, and, in the by about 4% in the 2005 financial year to approximately case of serious and repeated contraventions, Ofcom may 40%.
restrict or suspend the providers entitlement to provide BTs share of the residential xed-voice market, as electronic communications networks or services.
measured by the volume of xed-to-xed voice minutes, The Communications Act contains similar enforcement declined to an estimated 64% for the 2005 financial year, procedures though with much smaller penalties for compared with an estimated 70% and 74% for the 2004 matters such as non-compliance with a request for and 2003 financial years, respectively.
CPS has been one information or non-payment of an administrative charge.
of the contributors to the loss of share in the xed-voice market.
We estimate that BT had 42% of the market for Appeals business xed-voice calls in the 2005 financial year, One of the main features of the new regulatory framework compared with an estimated 44% and 47% in the 2004 is that full appeals on the merits are now available against and 2003 financial years, respectively.
Consequently, appeals can be made Estimated market shares are based on our actual against matters such as: minutes, market data provided by Ofcom and an & the making of SMP, SMP apparatus and USO extrapolation of the historical market trends.
determinations designations: We also estimate that BT supplied approximately 79% & the setting, modication and revocation of conditions: of exchange lines in the UK at the end of the 2005 & enforcement actions, including the imposition of a financial year, compared with 82% and 83% in the 2004 penalty.
Any person affected by a decision may appeal to the The growth in cable operators networks in the UK has Competition Appeals Tribunal.
However, the Tribunal historically had an adverse effect on BTs share of the must refer any matters in any appeal relating to price residential market.
Current and future wholesale line controls on to the Competition Commission for rental arrangements will allow BTs xed-line customers to determination.
move PSTN lines to other operators which are expected to In November 2003, Ofcom issued a notication nding be the source of more competition in the future.
that BT was acting in contravention of the General Since 2000, we have been required to provide other Conditions by using customer-specic information operators with the use of the lines connecting BTs local acquired from other communications providers in exchanges to our customers and to other operators to connection with the provision of Carrier Pre-Selection install equipment in our exchanges see Local Loop CPS.
In May 2004, Ofcom issued a second notication Unbundling.
nding that BT was similarly contravening the General Conditions in relation to Wholesale Line Rental WLR.
BT Competition Law appealed both notications, and the Tribunal adjourned In addition to telecommunications industry regulation, BT the WLR appeal pending the outcome of the CPS appeal.
is subject to general competition law including the In December 2004, the Tribunal dismissed BTs CPS Competition Act in the UK and the competition law appeal and upheld that notication although this was provisions of the EC Treaty.
subject to a clarification of the denition of marketing UK and European Union competition law both prohibit activity as set out in the notication.
Subsequently, anti-competitive agreements, concerted practices and the Ofcom withdrew the contested WLR notication, abuse of a dominant market position.
In the application of indicating that it would issue a new notication in light of UK and EU competition law to electronic communications, the CPS decision.
The Tribunal has suspended the WLR Ofcom has concurrent investigatory and enforcement appeal pending the new notication, which is expected powers with the Ofce of Fair Trading OFT.
jurisdiction to apply the EU rules.
Breach of the relevant prohibitions in the UK or EU rules could lead to fines of up to 10% of worldwide turnover in a companys previous financial year and or result in claims for damages in Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 17 national courts.
A company may also be ordered to cease Pricing regulation an infringing activity.
There is an independent mechanism Fixed network for appeals to the Competition Appeal Tribunal against We are subject to price controls on our xed network decisions taken by Ofcom or the OFT and to the European services in the UK at two levels: retail and network.
Fixed Court of First Instance against EC decisions.
network competitors are generally not subject to direct In July 2005, the Tribunal is due to hear Wanadoos price controls, although there are some controls on appeal against Ofcoms November 2003 nding that BT mobile network operators.
had not infringed the prohibition on abuse of a dominant position in relation to the pricing of BT Openworlds Retail price controls consumer broadband products.
Separately, in August We are subject to two sets of UK retail price controls, one on 2004, Ofcom claimed that BT had abused a dominant certain public-switched telephony call charges and position in relation to its pricing of consumer broadband exchange line rentals, and one on certain private circuits.
BT has responded, arguing that its pricing does Each price control is based on a formula calculated by not amount to an abuse of dominance.
Ofcom has reference to the UK Retail Prices Index RPI and a factor, X. indicated that it will issue either a new statement of For services covered by the controls, the weighted objections or a decision of non-infringement in relation to average of base prices cannot increase in each year this case, in June 2005. beginning 1 August by more than the annual change in RPI minus X.
The current retail price control for publicEnterprise Act switched telephony, applying from August 2002 to July The Enterprise Act 2002 aims to give more independence 2006, is RPI minus RPI ie the value of X is RPI and prices to the competition authorities, to reform insolvency and cannot increase.
It is measured on services used by the bankruptcy laws and to tackle trading practices that harm lowest 80% of our residential customers classied by bill consumers.
From August 2002, the services covered by the The key provisions of the Enterprise Act, including the control were extended to include BTs share of the new cartel offence and the section on director revenue for calls to all four mobile networks, replacing the disqualification, entered into force on 20 June 2003.
It is previous separate control on BT for calls to Vodafone and now a criminal offence, punishable by imprisonment or a O2.
The price control formula and our performance ne, or both, to engage in cartel activity.
In addition, against the formula are set out in the table below.
where companies infringe UK or EU competition law, Under the price controls for private circuits that company directors can be disqualified from being applied from August 1997 to July 2001, prices for concerned in the management of a company for a domestic analogue and low-speed digital private circuits maximum period of 15 years.
The Enterprise Act also could not increase by more than the change in the RPI in gives the OFT power to make a market investigation any year.
For all retail analogue private circuits and reference to the UKs Competition Commission where the 8Mbit s digital private circuits, BT has also given an OFT has reasonable grounds for suspecting that any assurance to adhere to a RPI 0% price cap from 30 June feature of a market prevents, restricts or distorts 2003 until 30 June 2006. competition in the supply or acquisition of goods or As part of the review of price controls in 2002, BT was services in the UK.
Once the OFT exercises its power to required to provide a cost-based wholesale line rental make such a reference, the Competition Commission is product to other service providers at a regulated price and required to decide whether any feature of the market in a way that does not unduly discriminate between BTs prevents, restricts or distorts competition adverse retail business and service providers.
This product, effect and, if so, to take action to remedy the adverse Wholesale Access, has been available from BT since effects.
Market investigations are intended to address 1 September 2002.
Further consultation by Ofcom competition issues in markets as a whole and not merely resulted in an enhanced wholesale access product being the behaviour of individual players.
In relation to available from 29 March 2004.
When Ofcom noties BT that it is satisfied in relation to the introduction and electronic communications markets, Ofcom has concurrent powers with the OFT to make a market provision of Wholesale Access, it may direct that the retail investigation reference.
price control be adjusted to RPI 0%.
Price Control RPI-X Years commencing 1 August 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 % RPI movement for the a relevant period 3.32 1.93 1.03 2.89 3.03 a, b Xon price control formula 4.50 4.50 1.03 2.89 3.03 c, d % required change in base prices 1.09 2.45 0 0 0 e % change in base prices overall 1.20 2.50 0.22 0.19 0.46 a Annual increase in RPI to previous June b From 1 August 1997, the RPI formula covers the main switched telephone services provided to the lowest 80% of BTs residential customers by bill size c After permitted carry forward of any unused allowance or shortfall from previous years d From 1 August 2002, the RPI formula covers the change in average prices including residential discount packages e Full year forecast based on price changes implemented up to January 2005 for residential customers.
There is an unused allowance of 0.41% carried forward from the previous year which would allow prices to rise by this amount in 2005.
Further price changes during this year could eliminate the current variance but if not, the amount may be carried forward.
18 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Operating and financial review Network Charge Control Number portability We operate under interconnection agreements with most The number portability charge control runs from 1 August other operators.
Our charges for a range of interconnect 2002 until 31 July 2006.
The charges are controlled by a services are controlled by Ofcom, under the Network RPI minus X formula, with X set at 5%.
This control is not Charge Control NCC regime.
The current NCC period contained in an SMP condition, but in a non-binding began on 1 October 2001 and will last until 30 September undertaking given by BT to Ofcom.
The controls are designed to ensure that our regime, General Condition 18 requires all providers to charges are reasonably derived from costs, plus an offer number portability, among other things, on appropriate return on capital employed.
Depending on reasonable terms and for charges to be cost-orientated.
the degree of competition for these services, charges are cap-controlled each year by RPI minus X where X ranges Wholesale access charge control from 7.5% to 13% for services Ofcom considers unlikely The charges for wholesale access services both analogue to become competitive in the near future and safeguard and digital are also subject to price control.
The charges cap-controlled ie no increases above RPI during any for the line rental residential and business products, line relevant year of the overall control period for services transfer and new line installations have been set by Ofcom likely to become competitive.
Those services considered and are subject to a price control of RPI minus 2%, fully competitive are not subject to direct charge controls.
effective from 1 September 2002 for four years.
The The main network price caps are listed below: control applies to the aggregate of all charges rental, transfer and installation as well as to line transfers X Factor in separately.
We are also under an obligation to notify Basket RPI X formula Duration Ofcom and service providers if we intend to amend Call termination 10 30 Sept 2005 existing charges or introduce new charges.
Notice periods Call origination 10 30 Sept 2005 range from 28 to 90 days, depending on the specic Tandem layer 13 30 Sept 2005 service.
Safeguard cap 0 30 Sept 2005 On 28 November 2003, Oftel published its statement Interconnect specic 8.25 30 Sept 2005 on the xed narrowband wholesale exchange line market.
Local exchange FRIACO 7.5 30 Sept 2005 This statement contained new obligations on BT to provide Wholesale Business ISDN2 Line Rental with costBT must publish a notication to Ofcom and other oriented prices and to provide residential ISDN2 and operators if we intend to amend existing charges or to ISDN30.
We launched the required products but the price offer new services.
Notice periods range from 28 to 90 level was referred to Ofcom as a dispute by Energis on days for regulated services, depending on the degree to 25 October 2004.
On 2 February 2005, Ofcom which they are judged to be competitive.
determined that BTs price was set at too high a level and In 2004, Ofcom began a review of the NCC, to that BT must refund Energis an amount for each line determine the controls to apply from 1 October 2005.
On rented during the period from 23 November 2003 to 23 March 2005, Ofcom issued a consultation document 30 September 2004. Review of BTs Network Charge Controls proposing a Additionally, during the year a small-scale consultation further four-year NCC regime, with a review of BTs was carried out which aligned the price control formulae market power in two specic markets deregulation being for Wholesale Access, NCC and PPC Partial Private proposed for one of these markets.
Ofcom is also Circuits but this did not affect the Wholesale Access proposing some re-denitions of basket services, and control in a material way.
consulting on a range of values of X for these services reecting the fact that some of the relevant factors in Partial Private Circuit Charge Control setting X are yet to be resolved.
We will respond to PPCs are leased lines that BT sells to other network Ofcoms proposals by 1 June: Ofcom is expected to operators.
On 1 October 2004, Ofcom introduced a PPC publish a statement by the end of July 2005. charge control to replace the annual determinations The various services and proposed ranges of X within previously carried out by Oftel.
The control arises from Ofcoms 23 March consultation document are listed regulation established in the Leased Lines Market Review below: LLMR and deals with PPC terminating segments the access part of the leased line network.
X Factor in The control is a four year RPI-X type control with three Basket RPI X formula separate baskets: Call termination 2.25 to 6.25 & Low Bandwidth Basket RPI-4% : Call origination 0.5 to 4.5 & High Bandwidth Basket RPI-6.5% : and Single transit 11 to 14 & Equipment Basket RPI-8.9%.
Local-tandem conveyance 0 safeguard Charges prior to the control were maintained as Interconnection circuits 1.5 to 5.5 starting charges and BT is required to make price Product management, policy and planning 2.5 to 6.5 reductions each year which comply with the controls.
Local exchange FRIACO 7.5 to 11.25 However, control formulae are constructed to allow BT Single tandem FRIACO 8.5 to 12.25 some discretion in the timing of the price changes and the Inter-tandem conveyance transit No control propose ability to meet the control by re-balancing different to fide-regulate elements of the PPC charges.
PPCs are also subject to obligations to notify operators and Ofcom if we intend to revise charges or other contractual conditions.
The notication periods range Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 19 from same day to 90 calendar days depending on the restrictions on market entrants, such as the extent to nature of the change.
which foreign ownership is permitted, or restrictions on the services which may be provided.
The extent to which Non-UK regulation the national incumbent operator is effectively regulated BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the also varies considerably.
BTs ability to compete fully in countries in which we operate or wish to operate.
The some countries is therefore constrained.
obligations placed on us and our suppliers continue to be relevant to our business models and have cost Other significant changes and issues implications for our end-user services.
These rules are Strategic Review of Telecommunications generally applied by national regulatory authorities Ofcom is carrying out a Strategic Review of the UK operating under a government mandate.
The decisions of telecommunications sector the Strategic Review.
The these bodies can have a material impact on our business first consultation document was published in April 2004 models from time to time.
and the second in November 2004.
The Strategic Review is comprehensive and wide ranging.
It aims to assess the European Union options for enhancing value and choice in the UK The degree to which the European Directives have been telecommunications sector while having regard to implemented varies by country.
The general move investment and innovation.
towards the new regime continues in the original EU15 The first consultation document focused on five member states before enlargement, although in some of fundamental issues: the key attributes of a wellthese countries, the implementation of the directives is functioning telecoms market for citizen-consumers: the achievement of sustainable competition: the possibility of progressing slowly.
In most, but not all, of these EU15 a significant reduction in regulation: incentivising efficient member states, the primary legislation that will enable the introduction of the new regulatory regime is going and timely investment in next-generation networks: and through, or has been through, the legislative process.
The the relevance of the issue of structural or operational processes of identication of operators with SMP and the separation of BT.
subsequent setting of regulatory obligations on those The second consultation set out three options for the operators are mostly in progress.
The EU10 accession outcome of the Strategic Review.
These were as follows: & member states are in the early stages of implementing Option 1 full deregulation, with reliance on these directives.
competition law to address competition concerns: & BT will not have universal service obligations outside Option 2 a market investigation reference to the the UK, although in certain member states we may be Competition Commission under the Enterprise Act to required to contribute towards an industry fund to pay for determine whether any feature of the market prevents the cost of meeting universal service obligations in those or distorts competition in the supply of countries.
Any findings that BT has SMP in any non-UK communications services.
One possible result of such market are not expected to have a material impact.
We an investigation could be enforced separation of BT: are lobbying the European Commission and other EU and & bodies with responsibility for electronic communications Option 3 delivery by BT to its competitors of real for consistent and timely implementation of the new equality of access to its networks, with the onus on BT directives and associated regulation.
to bring forward prompt and clear proposals.
The availability of cost-oriented access products from Option 3, which was supported by most of the regulated incumbents remains an important element of respondents to Ofcoms Phase 2 consultation, would our strategy around the world and we continue to press entail introducing more effective regulation focused on these incumbents, their national regulatory authorities enduring economic bottlenecks.
Ofcom also proposed and at the EU level for such access.
Availability varies by that when BT had delivered equality of access in these country.
areas, it would withdraw many additional layers of The European Commission is formally investigating the regulation from wholesale and retail markets.
In our way the UK Government has set BTs property rates and response to the Phase 2 consultation, BT put forward those paid by Kingston Communications.
The proposals for a package of measures which could form the Commission is examining whether the Government has basis for a new regulatory settlement.
Under these complied with EC Treaty rules on state aid in assessing proposals, we would: BTs rates.
BTs rates were set by the Valuation Ofce & make significant organisational changes that after lengthy discussions based on well established demonstrated our commitment to transparency and principles in a transparent process.
In BTs view, any exemplary governance, including the creation within allegation of state aid is groundless and BT is confident BT of a new Access Services Division based on the that the Government will demonstrate the fairness of the assets and people associated with the access network, UK ratings system.
A nding against the UK Government from the customers premises to the main distribution could result in BT having to repay any state aid it may be frame in the local exchange: & determined to have received.
create an Equality of Access Board to monitor the performance of the Access Services Division and to Rest of the world oversee delivery of equality of access by BT: & The vast majority of the markets in which we operate introduce equality of access in a phased and effective around the world are regulated, and in the majority of manner: & these we have to obtain licences or other authorisations ensure that BTs Wholesale Access product is and comply with applicable conditions.
The degree to demonstrably t for purpose with effective operational which these markets are liberalised varies widely: while performance and an increased margin enabling rapid many are fully open to competition, others place consumer take-up: 20 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Operating and financial review & keep Local Loop Unbundling LLU at the heart of BTs Radio base station backhaul circuits and wholesale wholesale broadband portfolio, building on the work extension services already done on industrialising LLU operations and During the 2005 financial year, we also launched two new taking forward our previous commitment to cut the products in line with regulations contained in the Leased price of fully unbundled loops: Lines Market Review: & & make sure the rest of BTs broadband products keep RBS radio base station backhaul circuits these are pace so that all service providers have a wide choice of circuits provided by BT to enable a mobile offerings to suit their business models: communications provider to connect a radio base & agree on the enduring economic bottlenecks assets station to its mobile switching centre: and & that are not replicable in the medium term and work WES wholesale extension services these are circuits to ensure that regulation is focused around them: and provided over bre, typically using Ethernet & set out the ground rules that underpin the technology, to enable a telecoms operator to connect a development of BTs 21st Century Network.
customer site to its own switching site.
Equally, as part of this package, BT would need Ofcom Neither product is currently part of a price control but to: Ofcom has imposed various regulatory conditions on the & commit to rapid, significant and ongoing deregulation products, including notication and cost orientation in certain key markets: obligations.
& create a stable investment environment, with the Strategic Review and the associated studies concluded Local Loop Unbundling successfully, so that investors are able to invest with Local Loop Unbundling LLU enables operators to certainty: and connect directly to the consumer via BTs copper local & enable BT to compete on a level playing eld with loops and then add their own equipment to offer other operators in the market.
There are two types of unbundled line: Cost of copper & a fully unbundled line gives operators the exclusive use Ofcom issued two consultation documents, in late 2004 of the copper line: and and early 2005, concerning the valuation of the local & a shared access line only gives operators the use of the access network assets, with the intention of issuing a high-frequency channel used for broadband and will statement in summer 2005.
The review considered the also be used by the customers xed-line voice valuation of the copper local access circuits and the duct provider.
through which these circuits pass.
Ofcom considers the During the 2005 financial year, Ofcom extensively local access network to be a bottleneck meaning that reviewed LLU regulation as it believed that development other xed line telecommunications operators wishing to of the LLU market, allowing operators to target serve the majority of UK customers need to use BTs local infrastructure investment and develop scale in the access network to do so, and wishes to ensure customers creation of high-speed data services, would be critical in continue to be charged fair prices for the use of these ensuring a fully competitive and innovative telecoms assets.
The regulator considered alternative ways of market for the long term.
However, while LLU does offer valuing these assets, and Ofcom anticipated that it would the potential for downstream service and price conclude that the assets should be revalued at a lower competition in broadband, it also requires substantial level.
Such an outcome would result in lower wholesale facilities and network investment by competitors.
charges for the use of local access network assets.
Ofcoms latest approach to regulating LLU focused on process and price: & Cost of capital in July 2004 Ofcom appointed the independent During its review of the PPC price control, Ofcom Telecoms Adjudicator to handle process issues: and & concluded that it should amend the allowed rate of return Ofcom completed its review of LLU prices in December it should use, based on an updated calculation of BTs 2004 as part of the wholesale local access market review.
The September 2004 statement On 16 December 2004, Ofcom announced final used an allowed rate of return of 13.0% on a pre-tax, charges for most connection and rental prices for LLU nominal basis, specically for PPC prices, compared with services.
The charge reductions follow consultations the 13.5% rate that the regulator had previously allowed published on 13 May 2004 and 26 August 2004, and the in other price controls.
In January 2005, Ofcom issued a price ceilings came into effect from 1 January 2005. consultation document that examined various aspects of Ofcom has published a full list of price ceilings at: risk and reward, including aspects of the allowed return www.
uk media news 2004 12 nr 20041216 that should be used by Ofcom in setting regulated prices.
The consultation proposed to review the calculation of Funds for liabilities BTs overall cost of capital, and also considered whether Under conditions relating to the Electronic to allow different rates of return for different parts of BT.
Communications Code, an electronic communications The regulator proposed to reduce BTs overall cost of provider with apparatus on or in the public highway is capital, from the general current rate of 13.5%, and also required to make financial provision to cover any damage suggested that the local access network was less risky suffered by highway or other relevant authorities, than the rest of BT, and BT should therefore be allowed a resulting from works carried out by the communications lower rate of return in regulated prices.
Such an outcome provider, and for the removal of its network, if necessary, would result in lower wholesale charges for local access in the event of the liquidation or bankruptcy of the network services.
The conditions require the company to provide Ofcom annually with a certicate that, in the company boards Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 21 opinion, the company has fullled its obligations to ensure the availability of the required funds.
Relationship with HM Government The UK Government, collectively, is our largest customer, but the provision of services to any one department or agency of the UK Government does not comprise a material proportion of our revenues.
Except as described below, the commercial relationship between BT as a supplier and the UK Government as customer has been on a normal customer and supplier basis.
We can, however, be required by law to do certain things and provide certain services for the UK Government.
General conditions made under the Communications Act 2003 require all providers of public telephone networks and or publicly available telephone services, including BT, on the request of and in consultation with the authorities, to make, and if necessary implement, plans for the provision or restoration of services in connection with disasters.
Furthermore, the Civil Contingencies Act 2004, contains provisions enabling obligations to be imposed on providers of public electronic communications networks, including BT, in connection with civil contingency planning.
In addition, the Secretary of State has statutory powers to require us to take certain actions in the interests of national security and international relations.
Legal proceedings The company does not believe that there are any pending legal proceedings which would have a material adverse effect on the financial position or operations of the group.
Proceedings have been initiated in Italy against 21 defendants, including a former BT employee, in connection with the Italian UMTS auction.
Blu, in which BT held a minority interest, participated in that auction process.
The hearings are continuing in Rome.
If the proceedings are successful, BT could be held liable, with others, for any damages.
The company has concluded that it would not be appropriate to make a provision in respect of any such potential claim.
22 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Operating and financial review
