Business review ESAB ESAB is a world-leading manufacturer and supplier of welding consumables and equipment Welding, and cutting and automation solutions.
ESABs welding consumables product range, which includes fluxes, electrodes, and cored and solid wires, covers welding processes for a variety of materials from mild steels to advanced alloys.
ESAB supplies complete arc welding and cutting solutions, from simple welding Plasma cutting Bevelhead, manufactured by ESAB transformers or inverters to advanced, fully automated installations.
ESAB has a leading position in processes and technologies, including cored and solid wire welding, aluminium welding, submerged arc welding, friction stir welding and advanced cutting solutions.
Europe accounts for almost one-half of ESABs revenue.
ESAB also has significant operations in North and South America, and is increasing its presence in China and elsewhere in Asia.
2005 highlights 2005 2004 Increase ESAB achieved an adjusted operating profit in 2005 of m m % 74.4 million 2004: 49.2 million, an increase of 51.2 per cent Welding 607.8 532.4 14.2 and its adjusted operating margin increased from 7.9 per cent Cutting and automation 112.3 92.5 21.4 in 2004 to 10.3 per cent in 2005.
Revenue 720.1 624.9 15.2 ESAB strengthened its presence in South America by increasing its ownership in the South American welding Welding 65.5 43.4 50.9 and cutting businesses from 51 per cent to 100 per cent.
Cutting and automation 8.9 5.8 53.4 Adjusted operating profit 74.4 49.2 51.2 1 In China: ESAB opened a new cutting factory in Shanghai in November 2005: Share of profits of associates post tax 3.4 2.4 ESAB began construction of a consumables plant in Zhangjiagang, Jiangsu province, which is due to commence Capital expenditure 16.8 8.4 production in July 2006: and Depreciation 11.9 12.1 ESAB signed a large contract with a major steel producer, Adjusted operating margin 10.3% 7.9% Baoshan Iron and Steel Company Ltd to supply automated welding technology.
Employees 6,507 6,413 ESAB achieved worldwide ISO 14001 certification.
1 before exceptional items 08 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 Overview of performance ESAB recorded an excellent performance in 2005 with sales of the energy sector, like process industries, uses stainless steel and 720.1 million 2004: 624.9 million, an increase of 15.2 per cent, other alloys, particularly where added strength and reliability are required for components used, for example, in nuclear power and adjusted operating profit of 74.4 million 2004: 49.2 million, plants.
Considerable quantities of welding consumables are used an increase of 51.2 per cent.
Adjusted operating margins improved when nuclear and other energy generating plants are being to 10.3 per cent 2004: 7.9 per cent.
With the search for renewable and environmentally The sales growth of 15.2 per cent reflected favourable market friendly energy sources, wind towers are a rapidly growing sub conditions in most markets and modest growth in volume in segment of the energy sector.
In their construction, wind towers certain product areas.
Of this increase, some 3 per cent was consume relatively high levels of welding consumables.
due to favourable movements in exchange rates.
ESAB has continued to commercialise new products for the The substantial increase in adjusted operating profit achieved fabrication, automotive and engineering sectors where high by ESAB in 2005 reflects the strong underlying demand performance solutions create value for the customer.
For example, for ESAB products and the on-going operational and other by focusing on the demands of the growing wind turbine sector, benefits derived from the restructuring programmes completed ESAB has developed equipment and consumables for continuous in recent years.
sub-arc welding SAW of steel components designed to withstand punishing conditions in offshore wind farms Industries and segmentation in northern Europe.
Welding is used to some extent in most industries.
The most familiar applications for ESABs products are in the production In cutting, ESAB has developed a strong range of machines of capital goods and infrastructure assets such as ships, trains to meet the high specification applications that deliver better cut and bridges.
Process industries such as food, drink, paper, plastics quality, higher cutting speeds, lower operating costs and integration and energy also make extensive use of plant and machinery, into automated production methods.
This range of machines is the manufacture of which involves an element of welding.
based around oxy-fuel cutting, plasma cutting and laser cutting Major global end-user segments are: technologies and reflects ESABs 65 years of experience in the cutting industry.
shipbuilding and the oil and gas industries, which are the largest and most demanding users of both welding and Industry overview cutting products: Demand for welding products is determined largely by worldwide consumption of steel and, to a lesser but growing extent, construction, where welding plays an important role in the of other metals, such as aluminium, used in shipbuilding assembly of buildings, bridges, railways, and pipelines: and the fabrication of capital equipment.
transport, which includes production of cars, trucks, buses, The International Iron and Steel Institute IISI estimates world trains and aircraft, requires technically demanding welding output of crude steel in 2005 at 1.1072 billion metric tonnes, solutions within highly automated production environments.
surpassing last years level by 5.8 per cent or an increase of This sector also includes off road vehicles such as excavators, 60.8 million metric tonnes mmt.
China produced 349.4 mmt dumpers, and agricultural equipment, which require high levels and therefore accounted for 31.6 per cent of global steel of welding: production 2004: 26.8 per cent and the rest of the world suffered process industries, which include petrochemicals, pulp and paper an overall decline of 8.1 mmt or 1.1 per cent, with the NAFTA and food, use many types of stainless steels and alloyed materials and the European Union registering the biggest declines that require technically demanding welding solutions: and of 5.3 per cent and 3.6 per cent, respectively.
ESAB through its world-wide network of manufacturing plants, sales and distribution facilities and well trained staff, is able to offer cost effective global solutions to local customers.
Key to this is its ability to provide total solutions including arc welding equipment, consumables and cutting.
ESABs brand, which has been developed over more than 100 years, reassures customers of its expertise, reliability, responsiveness and long-term commitment.
Charter plc Annual Report 2005 09 Business review continued Activity in the markets for ESABs aluminium welding wire has Those market sectors that have contributed most strongly remained strong throughout 2005.
These include shipbuilding, to ESABs growth in Europe have been shipbuilding, offshore, where advanced alloys are being increasingly used to construct automotive, energy, general fabrication and construction.
high performance aluminium sections of boats and ships, and in ESAB was able to provide productivity enhancing solutions the automotive industry, where leading manufacturers recognise to the automotive industry through its Aristo welding machines.
the high performance characteristics of ESABs products Sales in the CIS developed strongly in 2005, with Ukraine, in the robotic welding of vehicles.
Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Belarus all achieving substantial Regional overview revenue growth.
All these countries offer significant future growth Europe remains ESABs most important region in terms of opportunities.
ESAB also experienced good growth in other both sales and production capacity.
In recent years some of the emerging markets, such as Turkey, Romania and Bulgaria.
welding consumables production lines and manufacturing of Pilot lean manufacturing projects were undertaken in two of certain standard equipment ranges have been relocated within ESABs European factories by way of a precursor to a wider rollEurope from higher cost Western European locations to Central out of this programme elsewhere in 2006 and 2007.
In addition, Europe, where production costs are lower.
In North America an outdated solid wire plant in Verbania in Northern Italy was some production has also been relocated from the USA to closed in December 2005.
A relatively minor proportion of ESABs total consumables manufacturing capacity is located in Asia, and it is planned The cutting business generally performed well, and experienced that such capacity will be increased in future years.
particularly good growth in medium range machines and the aftermarket.
All of ESABs automated installations are manufactured at Lax in Sweden, whereas cutting machines are manufactured Whilst many of ESABs markets in Western Europe are essentially at Karben in Germany, Florence in the USA and at the new mature, there are opportunities for growth elsewhere in Europe cutting factory in Shanghai.
and particular attention will be focused on further developing the Russian and other rapidly growing markets such as Turkey, Regional markets Romania and Bulgaria.
During 2006, sales offices and During 2005, ESAB experienced sales growth in all five regions.
demonstration centres will be established in certain CIS countries.
However, in Europe, its biggest region, growth was below the levels achieved in other, faster growing, regions of the world.
In Western Europe, ESAB will continue to focus on sectors such as shipbuilding, automotive and energy, and on improving its Europe overall market share.
For ESABs businesses in its Europe region which includes its operations in Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent North America States CIS, it was a year of relative consolidation following ESAB Group Inc EGI has a leading presence in North America.
the operational restructurings in recent years.
Its products are predominantly used in general metal fabrication, construction, transport, shipbuilding, process equipment, mobile In Europe, ESAB experienced sales growth in 2005 of 9.5 per cent, machinery and automotive sectors.
with particularly strong growth in countries such as Italy, Finland, Germany, Russia and Hungary of between 16 and 46 per cent.
2005 was a progressive year for EGI in a generally positive trading environment.
In 2005, EGI achieved good growth in ESAB was awarded the 2006 Frost & Sullivan Award for Competitive Strategy Leadership for its notable performance both revenue and profitability in welding consumables because in the Russian and Ukrainian welding equipment and of increased levels of activity in the industry sectors served consumables markets.
by EGI and the introduction of a number of new products.
China In 2005, ESAB significantly increased its presence in China by: opening its new cutting machines factory in Shanghai in November: beginning construction of a new consumables plant in Zhangjiagang, Jiangsu province which is due to commence production in July 2006: and signing a large contract with a major steel producer, Baoshan Iron and Steel Company Ltd to supply automated welding technology.
The new cutting machine factory in Shanghai 10 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 ESAB, founded in Gothenburg, Sweden, in 1904, has grown to span five continents.
It has 26 manufacturing facilities, strategically located near to end users, ESABs associates have a further five manufacturing facilities and a further facility is under construction in Chennai.
ESAB sells its products in most countries of the world.
Dalsbruk Lax St Petersburg Gothenburg Perstorp Opole Katowice Karben Vamberk Mesero Traverse City Mr Ashtabula Hanover Changwon Florence Zhangjiagang Shanghai Monterrey Nagpur Calcutta Chennai Jakarta Belo Horizonte St Luis Chascomus Locations of ESABs manufacturing facilities Locations of ESABs associates manufacturing facilities ESAB: revenue by destination 2005 2004 Growth m m % Europe 345.4 315.3 9.5 North America 197.1 166.4 18.4 South America 90.3 71.5 26.3 China 14.9 11.6 28.4 Rest of world 72.4 60.1 20.5 Total 720.1 624.9 15.2 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 11 Business review continued The equipment and cutting businesses also performed well.
Middle East and Africa In the Middle East, ESABs revenue and profits have seen EGIs profitability improvement also benefited from a number continued growth in 2005.
In the UAE, ESAB has reinforced of cost reduction measures and procurement initiatives.
its leading position and has focused on added value and after sales service for its customers.
Changes made by ESAB to In 2006, EGI envisages that the generally favourable economic its distribution arrangements have led to ESAB increasing conditions seen in 2005 will continue.
A continuation of the shortits share of the Saudi Arabian market.
term uplift in demand is also expected from reconstruction work to repair the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina, ESAB intends to increase its presence in the faster growing which was first seen in the final quarter of 2005. economies of the Middle Eastern region.
Good growth potential exists in the energy sector and related infrastructure industrial South America activities, shipbuilding and repair and steel fabrication in 2006 ESABs presence in the region was strengthened during the year as and beyond.
In 2005, ESAB was selected as the major supplier a result of its ownership in the South American welding and cutting for the Dubai Drydocks expansion project.
Water treatment and businesses being increased from 51 per cent to 100 per cent.
desalination are other key industries that ESAB will be focusing Sales in Brazil increased, even though the relative competitiveness on in 2006. of the local steel industry was reduced as a consequence of In Africa, ESABs operations remain limited but it is seeking the appreciation of the Brazilian Real.
Eutectic sales, which to increase sales where suitable opportunities exist.
are made under licence by ESAB in Brazil, increased by more than 50 per cent over the previous year.
Associated undertakings ESAB owns 38 per cent of ESAB India Limited and 50 per cent Sales grew marginally ahead of the market in Argentina, and more of ESAB SeAH Corporation, a South Korean company.
ESABs than doubled in Chile, albeit from a low base.
share of the post tax profits of associates was 3.4 million Better trading conditions are forecast in Brazil for 2006 for 2004: 2.4 million, an increase of 42 per cent.
certain key industries such as mining, pipelines, energy and India shipyards.
The outlook in Argentina is also positive with industry During 2005, ESAB India achieved significantly improved sectors served by ESAB generally expected to grow.
revenues and profits, due to favourable market conditions ESAB is seeking to expand its businesses in Chile and in and actions taken to improve its production efficiencies and product availabilities.
other South American countries by strengthening its sales and marketing operations.
A new regional sales office and A new equipment assembly factory is being built by ESAB India in warehouse facility is being established in Panama to serve Irungattukottai, Chennai, which should be fully operational in 2007. the Central American market.
South Korea China ESAB SeAH Corporation, which is one of the leading producers In 2005, ESAB established a sales and distribution company of flux cored wire in South Korea, has continued to perform in Shanghai and a new warehouse facility in Waigaoxiao.
The South Korean market is expected to grow in 2006 due to increasing demand from domestic shipyards.
A new ESAB cutting factory was opened in November 2005 in Shanghai.
This facility is targeted to become a centre of Technical developments and new products excellence for cutting products, which will support both the 2005 was a significant year in terms of technical development.
Chinese market and other markets in Asia.
Welding consumables and equipment Construction commenced in August 2005 of a solid wire On the research side, co-operation continues with various and flux cored manufacturing plant in Zhangjiagang, Jiangsu institutes, universities and steel producers in the search for weld province.
This plant is due to commence production in metals to match properties of new materials.
Fields of research, July 2006. which range from high strength steels to advanced corrosion resistant alloys and high temperature grades, will form the In November 2005, ESAB signed a large contract with a major basis for a number of new product launches.
steel producer, Baoshan Iron and Steel Company Ltd, to supply automated welding technology.
The manufacturer produces New solid wires for high temperature and high strength around 20 million tonnes of steel a year and ESAB will supply applications have been included in ESABs successful AristoRod automated systems, equipment and consumables.
The range of stainless steel solid wires was also expanded to give superior product quality and consistency.
Rest of world Asia excluding China During the Essen Welding Fair ESAB exhibited its welding power source QSet.
The welding power source is a newly designed In 2005, ESAB performed well in Singapore, Indonesia and unit capable of delivering 300 amperes and has a unique QSet Australia, helped in part by the escalation of energy and commodity function, which makes it easier for the user to set the parameters prices.
Sales also improved in Japan due to investments by of the welding machine for the parts they are welding.
key industrial customers in the liquefied natural gas market.
As a leader in aluminium welding, EGIs subsidiary Alco Tec ESABs growth will target the most dynamic industries such launched a range of welding wires in the patented Marathon as the automotive, shipbuilding and energy sectors.
TM Pac, specifically aimed at mechanised welding.
Increasing growth in the sales of consumables and expanding Cutting and automation opportunities in Vietnam and Australia, as well as product Key product developments in 2005 included M3 plasma, development to improve the product range available in the a more accurate and productive cutting and marking machine.
These machines have the potential to deliver cutting speeds that are 30 per cent faster than other, conventional systems and consequently offer customers significant savings in energy, gas and cutting consumables.
12 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 A Railtrac FW1000 Flexi Weaver for oscillated welding South America ESABs increasing presence in a growing market ESAB first established a presence in South America in 1947.
Its first manufacturing operation was opened in 1955 in Brazil in partnership with a local company.
Later, during the 1990s, ESAB entered the smaller, but important, Argentine market, through the acquisition of a shareholding in Conarco.
In 2004, ESAB increased its equity shareholding in the overall South American business venture from 38 to 51 per cent.
In 2005, ESAB acquired the outstanding 49 per cent from the Acevedo family for a total cost of 26.4 million.
By combining access to ESABs global technology and resources with a distinctive South American identity, ESAB is now a market leader in South America.
For many years, the business has had a large manufacturing facility in Brazil at Belo Horizonte, where an additional plant has been newly established on a separate site to manufacture an increased range of welding consumables and equipment.
In Argentina, ESAB also has two manufacturing facilities.
Charter plc Annual Report 2005 13 Business review continued AristoRod a success story In 2003, ESAB launched the OK AristoRod, a copper free AristoRod is changing the face of MAG welding due to the MAG Metal Active Gas welding wire, to the European market many advantages that it offers.
These include consistent and since then sales of this product have continued to increase and reliable welding performance at high electrical currents, year on year.
The wire is currently used within most industry low amounts of welding spatter and high rust resistance segments such as general construction, automotive for better storage protection.
The AristoRod wire is available in a variety of sizes to suit welding Since the 1950s, the standard wire for MAG welding had been applications, ranging from manual welding through to continuous copper coated.
With customers demanding higher productivity, Marathon Pac solutions for robotic welding installations.
ESAB saw the need for a new high performance wire and developed AristoRod, a wire electrode without copper coating and with a number of unique properties.
AristoRod is treated with ESABs unique Advanced Surface Characteristics ASC technology, taking MAG welding operations to new levels of performance and efficiency in each of robotic, mechanised and manual welding.
14 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 TM ESAB is developing a high performance PC based control Widening the range of ESABs leading Marathon Pac system designed specifically for cutting machines.
consumable products also provides opportunities for growth by offering significantly enhanced productivity to a broader ESAB is a leader in welding equipment for integration with robots range of its customers.
and other welding automation systems.
ESABs new design of welding packages for robotic applications brings productivity The continuing strength of the shipbuilding and offshore and benefits to customers from the higher volume production energy market sectors will create additional demand for welding of manual inverter based welding power sources.
equipment, flux cored wire and other welding consumables and ESAB is well placed to benefit from future growth in these sectors.
Future developments and longer term growth prospects Market expansion New products and applications ESAB will continue to invest in growth markets, particularly ESAB is also developing new products and welding applications in China, Russia, the CIS countries and southern Asia.
for use in the construction of plant and machinery including pipelines, wind towers, offshore wind-farms and platforms ESABs increasing presence and capabilities in China are for the energy sector.
Other opportunities include desalination demonstrated by the new consumables factory being built and plants to counter shortages of fresh water.
scheduled to commence production in July 2006, the cutting factory opened in November 2005 and the winning of a large Shipbuilding is likely to remain one of the most important industry new contract to supply automated welding technology.
This is due to growing world trade, the need to replace life-expired vessels and the increasing Sales and demonstration centres are being established in the requirement for double-hulled ships.
Infrastructure is also being expanded in parts of South East Asia.
ESAB is reviewing how best to service these ESAB together with its associate company, ESAB India Ltd, has markets, and may as a consequence locate additional production established a new research and development facility for welding capacity in the region.
The Indian market for welding consumables and related engineering in India, which is owned 75 per cent has experienced considerable recent growth and ESAB, through by ESAB and 25 per cent by ESAB India.
its associated company ESAB India, anticipates further growth Lean manufacturing as the Indian economy continues to grow.
ESAB recognises that it will need continuously to reduce its The South American markets, especially Brazil, Argentina and manufacturing, supply and distribution and other operational Chile, also present attractive opportunities.
The prospects for costs to retain its competitiveness, particularly against ESABs business throughout South America also benefit from manufacturers located in low cost countries.
During 2005, ESAB having acquired 100 per cent ownership of the business, ESAB commenced a process to introduce Lean manufacturing which has enabled it to introduce a number of new products and continuous improvement processes into its organisation.
and technologies into South America.
Initial pilot programmes were set up in selected parts of the In Europe, it is ESABs intention to expand in those markets organisation, supported by professional Lean manufacturing where it has a lower than average market share, but only where and continuous improvement practitioners.
The pilots were profitable growth is achievable.
ESAB will continue to optimise designed specifically to facilitate learning and to introduce a its channel strategy, which has led to improved market access new range of Lean and related tools and techniques into ESAB.
The Lean pilots have proved successful and it is planned Investment in further sales resources and new product launches that the programme will be rolled out across ESAB in Europe, should enable the equipment business to grow in key markets.
South America and the Far East.
International Welding and Cutting Fair, Essen, Germany ESAB took the opportunity to showcase its progress in process and product development such as Tandem Twin SAW technology for wind towers, SuperPulse and Robot Packages, M3 High Speed Cutting and AristoRod advanced welding wires for robot applications.
By investing in the development of these technically demanding applications, ESAB continues to demonstrate its commitment to improving productivity for its customers.
