Business review Howden Howden is an international applications engineer with a world-leading position in the design, supply and servicing of air and gas handling equipment.
Its use of sub-contractors has risen over the past three years and Howden increasingly only manufactures components that are performance critical, protect its technology or maintain its markets.
Howdens core products include centrifugal TM Machining of a Variax variable pitch axial flow fan hub in and axial fans and air and gas rotary preheaters Howdens Belfast facility for the power generation industry.
The fans and heaters are integral parts of the coal-fired boiler and emission control systems including the processes for flue gas desulphurisation and denitrification.
Howden also manufactures and supplies fans, turbo-blowers and compressors to a wide range of other industries including oil and gas, petrochemical, iron and steel, smelting of aluminium and other metals, mining, cement, nuclear, pulp and paper, transport and ventilation fans for tunnels.
Howden derives approximately one-third of its revenues through aftermarket sales which benefit from its extensive installed product base.
Howden supplies products which are manufactured or assembled at its factories and other sites across the globe.
Howdens principal operations are located in Europe, China, North America and South Africa.
2005 highlights 2005 2004 Increase Howden more than doubled adjusted operating profits to m m % 33.5 million 2004: 14.2 million and its adjusted operating Revenue 345.1 241.6 42.8 margins improved from 5.9 per cent in 2004 to 9.7 per cent in 2005.
Order book 304.0 181.0 68.0 Howden grew its year end order book to 304 million Adjusted operating profit 33.5 14.2 135.9 1 2004: 181 million, an increase of 68 per cent.
In China: Share of profits of associates post tax 1.1 1.2 Howden more than doubled its sales to 97.
1 million Capital expenditure 3.6 2.8 2004: 48.0 million : Depreciation 2.6 2.9 Howden won orders for 100 rotary heat exchangers Adjusted operating margin 9.7% 5.9% 1 for FGD plants compared with a total of 40 worldwide in the previous decade : Employees 2,804 2,556 Howden substantially expanded its capacity for heater 1 before exceptionals element manufacturing and machining: and Howden completed a new workshop to manufacture cooling fans.
Howden achieved aftermarket sales of 122 million 2004: 103 million, an increase of 18 per cent.
16 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 Overview of performance Howden achieved excellent results in 2005 with sales of Much of the equipment supplied by Howden has an expected 345.1 million 2004: 241.6 million, an increase of 42.8 per cent, life of between 30 and 40 years, and provides significant and adjusted operating profit of 33.5 million 2004: 14.2 million, opportunities for retrofits, spares and servicing by Howden.
Net operating margins were The global end-user market segments and the products supplied increased substantially to 9.7 per cent 2004: 5.9 per cent.
by Howden include: The closing order book grew to 304 million 2004: 181 million, power generation fans and rotary heat exchangers for boilers, an increase of 68 per cent, with incremental orders being flue gas desulphurisation FGD plant and denitrification generated by Howden Hua up 38 million, Howden Denmark processes: cooling fans for dry cooling systems: up 36 million, Howden UK up 22 million, Howden North America up 13 million, and Howden process compressor oil and gas compressors and specialised fans for offshore businesses up 12 million.
platforms: cooling fans for gas pipelines and underground storage compression stations: The substantial increase in adjusted operating profit achieved by Howden in 2005 reflects the strong underlying demand for petrochemical plant fans and compressors for refineries, Howden products and the on-going operational and other benefits ethanol and methanol production, and other processes: that Howden has derived from the restructuring programmes iron and steel heavy duty fans for iron ore beneficiation plant completed in recent years.
Howdens global aftermarket business, sintering and pelletising, and for basic oxygen and electric arc where margins are generally attractive, has increased sales to furnace steelmaking: 122 million 2004: 103 million, an increase of 18 per cent.
industrial processes fans and compressors for a wide range Industries and segmentation of industrial processes including pulp and paper, cement Howdens core products are used in many key industries and manufacture, smelting and sulphuric acid: and industrial processes.
mining high integrity fans for coal, gold and other Fans are used in industries where large volumes of air or gas underground mining.
are required to be moved at low pressures.
Industry overview Rotary heat exchangers are used to transfer heat between Demand for new Howden equipment is strongly influenced by air and or gas streams, primarily in fossil fired power generation the construction of new coal fired power stations, environmental and petrochemical steam raising plants.
legislation, the consumption of steel and the production of oil Compressors are used to supply specialised gases in a wide and gas.
These industries are all predicted to grow steadily.
variety of industrial and petrochemical processes.
In addition, Howdens large, and growing, installed base of equipment around the world provides an ongoing demand End user segmentation is strongly influenced by the availability for spares and services.
of natural resources in particular regions.
The global spread of coal, iron ore, oil and gas deposits provides Howden with a global The slump seen at the turn of the century, in global orders for customer base in a diverse range of industry sectors.
coal-fired plants, has been followed in the last few years by a Governmental regulations stimulate demand for a number of spike in construction of such plants in China.
The power industry Howden products, particularly in the environmental protection world-wide is showing signs of stabilising at or above the average sector, where Howden supplies equipment for use in processes growth rate of 2.5 per cent per annum predicted by the which reduce atmospheric pollution generated by industrial plant.
Howden, which celebrated its 150th anniversary in 2004, is acknowledged as the global technology leader in its core air and gas handling product areas, focusing on key industries where quality and reliability are paramount.
With a combination of technically advanced products and extensive applications engineering capabilities, it focuses on supporting its customers throughout the product life cycle, from project inception to decommissioning.
Charter plc Annual Report 2005 17 Business review continued Industry sources estimate that around 60GW of new capacity was North America commissioned in 2005, some 90 per cent of which was in China.
Howden Buffalo Inc is headquartered in Camden, South Carolina and has four other main facilities, one of which is located The existing governmental programme to reduce the quantity in Mexico City.
of sulphur dioxide being emitted from power stations in China is expected to continue.
The USA and, to a lesser extent, Europe Howden Buffalos results continued the improvement seen will continue to develop as a market for this technology.
in the second half of 2004 and it grew sales and returned to profit in 2005.
An increasingly tight supply and higher price of oil and gas is stimulating upstream and downstream plant construction, Howden Buffalos aftermarket performance improved significantly particularly in the refining sector.
Forecasts for growth in due to incremental sales volume and better performance in field exploration and production expenditures for 2005 were revised service and fan parts.
upwards during the year from 6 to13 per cent and a similar Howden Buffalos operating margins have improved due to double-digit rise is expected in 2006. cost reduction initiatives.
However, they remain below those In China, the construction of new steel plants is expected to achieved elsewhere by Howden in similar businesses, and slow from the current unprecedented level, as production exceeds therefore potential exists for Howden Buffalo to improve demand in the short term.
However a programme to replace its operating margins.
smaller inefficient plants by larger integrated plants will ensure There are also further opportunities to grow revenue.
Pollution that plant construction continues in that country.
The IISI predicts control legislation in North America tends to vary by state and that world-wide capacity will grow at 5 per cent per annum, on the financial strength of individual utility companies.
Howden and projects to increase the production of beneficiated iron Buffalo has successfully targeted utilities that will need to make ore are already evident in a number of areas including India incremental investment and is seeking to develop mutually and Brazil.
Howden Buffalo has the Regional overview largest installed base for centrifugal and axial fans in North Howdens principal markets are Europe, China, North America America and initiatives are being undertaken to increase and South Africa.
Sales in other regions, such as Asia excluding Howden Buffalos share of the aftermarket.
China, South America and the Middle East are relatively small.
South America Equipment is generally sold to customers in the regions in which Sales more than doubled from 4.2 million in 2004 to 8.9 million such equipment is produced, although high levels of demand in 2005 due to additional projects within the iron and steel industry in countries such as China do, from time to time, result in and in particular CVRD in Brazil.
product being exported inter-regionally within Howden.
With national economic growth rates running at higher levels Europe than in many West European economies, significant investment Revenue increased by 21.6 per cent to 96.7 million.
This was expenditure is foreseen in South America over the next driven by excellent performances from Howden UK, Howden 4-5 years, with oil and gas extraction, biofuels and iron ore Denmark and Howdens compressor companies.
beneficiation all expected to see major plant developments taking Howden is seeing growing markets and improving market place during that period.
Brazil, the worlds biggest exporter penetration in its markets in Europe.
of iron ore, is significantly expanding its capacity to produce In terms of market development, there are growing opportunities iron ore pellets, used throughout the world as a blast furnace in Russia, currently in the mining and process gas sectors and, feedstock.
These factors provide future opportunities in the in time, also in the power market.
The illustration shows a research model of an axial fan under test.
Howdens combination of research, design, development and production has contributed to record sales for the market TM leading Variax variable pitch axial flow fan in the global power generation industry.
18 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 Howden, founded in 1854 in Glasgow, UK, has grown into an international organisation with operating companies in 13 countries and a network of agents covering a further 80.
Chesterfield Lille Renfrew Hengelo Nstved Belfast Kingswinford Coswig Paris Nogent Heidenheim Dearborn Buffalo Beijing New Philadelphia Weihai Cartagena Camden Taipei Mexico City So Paulo Johannesburg Port Elizabeth Sydney Melbourne Howdens manufacturing facilities Howdens engineering and service facilities Howdens associates manufacturing facilities Howden: revenue by destination 2005 2004 Growth m m % China 97.1 48.0 102.3 Europe 96.7 79.5 21.6 North America 60.6 52.7 15.0 South America 8.9 4.2 111.9 Rest of world 81.8 57.2 43.0 Total 345.1 241.6 42.8 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 19 Business review continued China Revenue at Howden Hua is expected to increase further this Sales in China amounted to 97.1 million 2004: 48.0 million, year due to its significant order book of some 100 million.
Whilst, an increase of just over 100 per cent.
over time, new build bookings from the power industry in China will decline for the reasons mentioned above, it is expected that During the year, Howden Hua won orders for some 100 rotary overall levels of revenue in future years will be protected by, heat exchangers for FGD plants, an exceptional achievement first, the development of the aftermarket after almost a decade given that over the previous decade Howden had supplied of new-build, second, opportunities to refurbish old stations, a total of 40 of these gas heaters across the rest of the world.
and, third, the widening of the range of products manufactured Howden Huas share of the Chinese market for its core fan and or sold in China.
and heat exchanger product ranges is estimated at between 20 per cent and 30 per cent.
Rest of the world Africa During 2005, Howden Hua completed its expansion project, Howden Africa Holdings Limited HAHL, in which Howden has commenced in 2004, thereby significantly increasing its capacity a holding of some 55 per cent, increased its sales by 21 per cent in relation to heater element manufacturing and in machining to 43 million in the year, principally due to increased orders and activities in China.
In addition, a network of qualified subreturn to service work from ESKOM, the South African state contractors was established in many provinces to serve owned power utility.
the growing levels of demand.
HAHL is well placed to benefit from the strong commodity prices Howden Hua also launched and completed a dedicated workshop cycle and increases in gross domestic fixed investment over the of 2,500 square metres close to Howdens existing factory in next five years.
However, these positive factors could be partially Weihai to manufacture cooling fans.
The market for cooling fans offset by a strong Rand and the impact that a strong currency in China has grown significantly as certain Chinese provinces could have on export earnings for the South African mining restrict water supply for air conditioning thereby necessitating and heavy industry sectors.
the use of air-cooling by steam condensers.
The new cooling fan product was launched in August 2005 and during the final Asia Pacific excluding China quarter of the year this new unit received orders ahead of target, Howdens sales in Asia Pacific excluding China are predominantly and, as a consequence, by the year end, it moved into profit.
to the mining, industrial and power supply industries in While it is felt that Chinas economy will continue to grow at an Australia, and therefore have benefited from favourable annual 9-10 per cent until at least 2008, the year of the Beijing commodity prices.
Olympics, the extraordinary growth in the countrys power In India, medium term opportunities are seen in the mining and generation capacity experienced over the past two years is process gas sectors and later in the power market.
Measures expected to ease off to around the rate of growth in the economy are being taken by Howden to ensure that it will be positioned as a whole.
Chinas generating capacity, of which some 80 per to meet these opportunities.
cent is coal-fired, has just reached 500 giga-watts GW and is forecast to hit 700 GW by the end of the decade.
However over Associated undertakings the last 12 months alone, capacity has increased by around Howden has a 49 per cent interest in Howden Compressors 65GW equivalent to some three-quarters of the UKs total Limited, a Scottish based and incorporated company.
generating capacity as China strives to eliminate power shortages In 2005, Howdens share of the post tax profits of its associated and blackouts.
About 80 per cent of Chinas power generating undertakings amounted to 1.1 million 2004: 1.2 million.
Capacity is forecast to match demand levels this year.
During 2005 Howden Hua continued to grow in size to service the expanding Chinese power generation and steelmaking industries.
A major factor in this success is that the company offers Howdens latest product ranges of fans and rotary heat exchangers.
Its design and manufacturing facilities are equipped to the same standard as other Howden companies throughout the world.
20 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 Final machining of a variable pitch axial flow fan hub China Howdens decade of technological leadership Howden has been trading in China for the past 30 years and The companys expertise has also extended to heavy industrial in 1994 established Howden Hua with two local partners.
specialist applications in the steel industry where it enjoys The initial opportunities which Howden identified were improving a leading market position in the supply of sinter fans.
the performance of the then existing power plant equipment There remains scope for Howden to further expand in other in China by retro-fitting air preheaters with Howden modern markets in China, particularly the petrochemical sector where technology and the potential for providing a lower cost base sustained investment is expected to continue.
Over the last decade, Howden Hua, supported by Howdens European technical centres, has become widely recognised throughout China as the technology leader on fans and rotary heat exchangers in the power generation industry for both boilers and FGD plants.
During this time, Howden Hua has invested in the expansion and upgrading of its facilities in China.
The principal manufacturing facility is located at Weihai in Shandong province: the design centre is in Beijing.
Charter plc Annual Report 2005 21 Business review continued Figure 2 Flow vectors Figure 1 Impeller, inlet box and bend Figure 3 Velocity magnitudes Computational fluid dynamics in Howden Howden is increasingly replacing the laboratory testing of the However, with CFD, it is possible to evaluate areas of flow in detail.
aerodynamic characteristics of its products with computer studies Figure 3 shows the flow entering the inlet cone.
This is not using a technique called computational fluid dynamics CFD.
uniform, with more flow and higher pressure at the top shown This accelerates product development and enhances efficiency.
up in orange and yellow than at the bottom shown in blue.
Different configurations can be studied to obtain an optimum An example of the power of this approach was demonstrated configuration.
In this application, a final design was developed in a contract to supply a fan in a location where space that gave only a marginal pressure difference between the top constraints meant that there would have to be a sharp bend and bottom.
The basic configuration is shown in Figure 1.
The above examples illustrate the potential power of CFD.
As Howden applies the technique more extensively, it will Traditionally, the flow through this configuration would have been be able to exploit it more fully, improving its existing designs, tested using a scale model, involving long delays and a high increasing its understanding of aerodynamic characteristics cost.
Instead, the arrangement was modelled in CFD.
of products and increasing its ability to support customers Figure 2 shows the flow through the bend, into the inlet box in their application of Howden products.
This will help to and out of the impeller.
It can be seen that, with the bend and maintain Howdens position as a leading supplier in air the guide vanes, the flow in the system looks generally uniform.
22 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 Future developments and longer term growth prospects Market expansion Outside the power industry, the aftermarket tends to be less China continues to provide an attractive market for Howden important relative to new build: in the petrochemical industry, technology.
Howden Hua does not yet offer the full range of new build represents approximately 60 per cent of the total Howden products to its customers in China, but plans are expenditure in both Europe and North America, and almost at an advanced stage to broaden the range of its products 100 per cent in China.
and activities, particularly in the petrochemical and allied New products and applications process market sectors.
Howdens development of new products and applications South America is seen by Howden as a region that has will be weighted by value towards the power generation and potential for substantial growth.
Howden South America, petrochemical markets, where increasing plant capacity and based in Brazil, is currently growing its share of the industrial efficiencies impose new demands on equipment suppliers.
fan markets throughout the South American region and, New processes emerging in response to carbon abatement in conjunction with other Howden companies, is expanding programmes, such as hydrogen fuel cells and carbon capture its product range in South America.
and storage, will provide growth opportunities for a number of Howden products.
Demand for new and incremental power plants in Europe and North America is increasing as capacity margins are eroded Any resurgence of the nuclear power industry will provide and much of the existing plant, which was built during the boom opportunities for Howden in the longer term, particularly if period of the 1960s and 1970s, is reaching the end of its useful advanced gas-cooled technologies, such as the Pebble Bed working life.
In addition, ever more stringent environmental Modular Reactor, are widely adopted.
protection legislation requires that power generating companies Lean manufacturing and outsourcing in North America, Europe and China invest in plant that has Howden is primarily an applications engineer rather than a efficient atmospheric pollution systems.
Its use of sub-contractors has risen significantly Aftermarket over the past three years and it increasingly only manufactures Howden is focusing on strengthening its aftermarket presence, components that are performance critical, protect its technology particularly in the servicing of, and supply of spare parts for, or maintain its markets.
The size of the aftermarket Where manufacturing is undertaken by Howden, there are varies between different countries and industries.
In the power opportunities for improved efficiencies.
Building on the benefits generation industry as a whole, the aftermarket is estimated already achieved by the various restructurings, pilot Lean to account for around one-half of total expenditure by power manufacturing and other continuous improvement measures generating companies on fans and heat exchangers: however, are underway in selected operations.
in Europe and North America, where the power generation markets are relatively mature, the aftermarket accounts for between 60 per cent and 70 per cent of expenditure, whereas in China, new build presently accounts for some 90 per cent of industry expenditure.
The aftermarket in China will become increasingly significant for Howden Hua as the equipment which it has supplied in China in prior years requires servicing, spare parts and refurbishment.
