Business Review: Continental Europe Strategy of 2004.
Ongoing asset management of the Slough Estates approach in Continental portfolio remains a core business area and, Europe is to expand in strategic locations, over the past year, a proactive management with a focus on business centres in the approach has been adopted to some logistics, suburban office and light industrial challenging areas in the traditional portfolio.
This expansion is achieved by leveraging and growing close customer Development relationships on a pan-European level, and 206 ha are now held across seven European calling upon the experience of a management countries.
This land bank provides a significant team made up of local nationals who development pipeline in target suburban understand their individual markets.
High-profile developments in core markets include: We have doubled our Continental Over the course of 2005, the Continental Pegasus Park next to Brussels International European operations over the past European operation doubled in terms of Airport: the 17 ha fide Hoek scheme opposite 12 months.
At the end of 2005, geographical coverage, assets under Schiphol Airport, Amsterdam: the Portes fide we had 1.1 million sq.
m. under management, land bank and personnel.
France suburban office scheme next to the management.
Operations expanded in Germany and France Stade fide France in St Denis: the Alzenau Walter Hens and new operations were acquired in the logistics park near Frankfurt, Germany: and Managing Director, Europe target markets of the Netherlands, Poland, Tulipan Park next to Prague Airport in the Hungary and the Czech Republic.
These international projects strategy has been adapted to change from are supported by a tier of domestic projects, a niche trader to a long-term investor.
which complement the existing investment portfolio, such as: the Carr des Aviateurs 2005 Performance scheme and the Alstom project, both to the At the end of 2005, 1.1 million sq.
m. of space north of Paris, and the Zellik and Zaventem was under management, an increase of projects on the outskirts of Brussels, Belgium.
m. at the end La Courneuve, Paris The headquarters of Alstom Power in La Courneuve were acquired in a sale and leaseback transaction for 16.7 million net of acquisition costs.
The 11 ha property provides 53,000 sq.
m. of office and light industrial accommodation, which Alstom have leased back for an annual rent of 1 million.
Laurent Horbette, General Manager, France, commented: This site provides a prime location for development.
The entire area is characterised by regeneration as heavy industry gives way to light industrial facilities.
With planned improvements to public transport and parking, as well as excellent road links, we see many opportunities for flexible business space investment.
Development Site 30 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 Since the start of 2006, German operations Markets In 2006 we aim to consolidate the have expanded from a concentration of The Continental European markets were individual country operations under business park developments in the suburban mixed throughout 2005, with only France an enhanced European brand.
areas of Dsseldorf and Frankfurt, to holding providing a strong occupational market.
investment assets and development sites in Elsewhere there was positive activity in the most of the large business centres across the suburban business park markets in Germany, country.
This improvement was achieved where most demand came from an active largely through the acquisition of the domestic market.
In Belgium and the KarstadtQuelle AG portfolio.
Netherlands, where occupiers remain cautious, the take up over the year has In Central Europe, the development pipeline not generated any net absorption, and in Poland mainly comprises three projects, the markets remain flat.
the largest of which is a 61 ha logistics business park adjacent to the new motorway In contrast to the occupational markets, at Strykow in central Poland.
In the Czech the investment market has seen strong yield Republic a six ha scheme is located next compression across all regions and sectors.
to Prague Airport and there is a nine ha The markets are being driven by increased scheme in Budapest, Hungary.
money inflows to the existing institutional investors and the continued arrival of new market entrants.
Slough Estates International 28 Continental European Portfolio France Germany 1 Le Blanc Mesnil 28 Hamburg 23 24 2 La Courneuve 29 Braunschweig 25 49 26 40 48 38 3 Gonesse 30 Dortmund-Kley 37 29 36 30 34 31 4 St Denis 31 Dsseldorf 23 22 33 35 47 32 5 Cergy Pontoise 32 Essen 21 6 Nanterre 33 Holzwickede B 7 Colombes 34 Mnchengladbach 8 Marly La Ville 35 Neuss 39 9 Aulnay 36 Ratingen 44 10 Evry 37 Kapellen 43 42 11 Bures 38 Krefeld 41 50 P 39 Alzenau 45 Belgium 40 Berlin 12 Pegasus Park 41 Darmstadt 13 Woluwe St Stevens 42 Floersheim 14 Horizon 43 Frankfurt 1 46 15 Zaventem III 44 Frankfurt 2 16 Kortenberg 45 Neumarkt 17 Zaventem E40 46 Bad Waldsee 51 18 Nivelles 19 Zellik I & II Poland 20 Diegem 47 Strykow 21 Bornem 48 Poznan 22 Rumst 49 Warsaw 23 Kontich Czech Republic P B The Netherlands 50 Prague Paris Brussels 24 Mainbuilding 8 25 Formaeren Hungary 5 A12 E19 26 fide Hoek 51 Budapest 3 27 Lutkemeer 20 9 16 12 1 19 2 7 4 E40 17 13 14 6 15 E40 11 E411 18 10 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 31 Business Review: Continental Europe The sale of the 3,300 sq.
m. prime France New developments Portes fide France suburban office scheme office redevelopment on Avenue The start of 2005 saw the sale of the in St Denis, overlooking the Stade fide France.
Klber, Paris to Foncires des 3,300 sq.
m. prime office redevelopment on The property is located either side of the A86 Regions realised a profit of Avenue Klber, Paris to Foncires des Regions motorway the second Paris ring road and will 4.5 million.
The transaction realised a provide two interconnected office buildings.
profit of 4.5 million and marked the strategic The project will be delivered in late 2007. refocusing back to a core business model of providing flexible business space The headquarters of Alstom Power in La in suburban markets.
Courneuve were acquired in a sale and leaseback transaction for 16.7 million net The second phase of the Carr des Aviateurs of acquisition costs.
The 11 ha property light industrial estate in Le Blanc Mesnil was provides 53,000 sq.
m. of office and light completed in 2005.
Following the demolition of industrial accommodation, which Alstom redundant buildings, the estate now provides have leased back for a nine-year fixed term 21,000 sq.
m. of high quality light industrial at an annual rent of 1 million.
Included accommodation with a further 16,000 sq.
m. in the sale is a 4.4 ha prime light industrial for delivery in two phases.
site with substantial frontage onto the A86 motorway.
This site will be developed over In an expansion of the suburban Parisian the next few years.
future portfolio, a mixture of incomegenerating properties with development An agreement is being progressed to acquire potential were acquired as were sites for and develop a 13 ha site at Gonesse to the immediate development, which complement north of Paris in between Charles fide Gaulle the existing pipeline.
airport and Le Bourget airport.
Subject to receiving the necessary authorisations, Most notably, Slough Estates entered into a 47,000 sq.
m. light industrial scheme is a 50 50 joint venture agreement with Capital proposed, partly suitable for the owner & Continental to develop the 27,000 sq.
Le Blanc Mesnil, France The second phase of the Carr des Aviateurs light industrial estate in Le Blanc Mesnil, north of Paris, was completed in 2005.
The seven ha site offers excellent transport links thanks to its proximity to Le Bourget Airport and easy access to the A1 motorway.
The estate is currently being developed to provide 37,000 sq.
m. of grade A light industrial accommodation.
At the end of 2005 the high fashion retailer, Paul & Joe, signed a lease on a 1,700 sq.
Laurent Horbette, General Manager, France, said: With prime business links and potential for future development, the Carr des Aviateurs estate is at the heart of an area that is currently undergoing much change and improvement.
This development, combined with our property management expertise, offers the space, facilities and flexibility that modern, growing businesses need.
32 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 Germany From trader to investor term trading potential and a substantial We acquired the occupational Over the past decade, as an active trading development pipeline.
portfolio of KarstadtQuelle AG in developer, Slough Estates has produced a sale and leaseback transaction over 90,000 sq.
m. of flexible business To align the trading portfolio with the new for 106.8 million.
accommodation for the institutional investor strategy, a light industrial property in investor market.
Hamburg was sold to the real estate investment and asset management company, Halverton, This successful strategy is now being for a gross disposal price of 8.4 million.
The redefined to expand the Companys presence property was developed by Slough Estates in Germany, by becoming a long-term investor and provides a total of 12,000 sq.
m. of light as well as a trading developer.
This new strategic industrial accommodation, let to 19 tenants.
direction takes advantage of existing market expertise and builds an investment portfolio to complement existing operations.
In line with this investment strategy, part of the occupational portfolio of KarstadtQuelle AG was acquired in a sale and leaseback transaction for 106.8 million.
KarstadtQuelle AG are one of the largest retailers in Germany with gross sales of 9.2 billion in 2004.
m. of accommodation and 38.5 ha of development land located throughout Germany.
The majority of the accommodation is let on long-term leases and produces an annual rent of 8.2 million.
The portfolio comprises mainly long-term investments, although there is some shortFrankfurt, Germany The Alzenau development property close to Frankfurt, was acquired in 2005, as part of a sale and leaseback transaction for 106.8 million with KarstadtQuelle AG.
The transaction involved the acquisition of a substantial logistics and ancillary office portfolio, providing a total of 296,000 sq.
m. of leased-back accommodation and 38.5 ha of undeveloped land.
The main development properties are prime strategic sites at locations in Berlin, Hamburg, Hanover, Dusseldorf Essen and Alzenau, all with good potential for the provision of business park or logistic facilities.
Dr. Udo Titz, General Manager, Germany, commented: At Alzenau, close to Frankfurt, we now have 25,000 sq.
m. let to KarstadtQuelle AGs e-commerce subsidiary, Neckermann, and a further 10 ha of development land.
This development is a prime example of the assets acquired in the KarstadtQuelle portfolio.
Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 33 Business Review: Continental Europe Belgium Consolidation of the portfolio Elsewhere in the portfolio, progress has been The latest building on Pegasus Park, Titan, made on the zoning plan for the extension of was delivered in the second half of 2005. the Kortenberg development.
m. of highlyspecified office accommodation and is being The Netherlands marketed following completion, while the lower Focus on the Schiphol Airport market level has been let to World Class International, Schiphol airport, the second largest airport a fitness centre.
A further phase could provide in Europe, is the heart of the international an extra 3,000 sq.
occupier market in fide Randstad, in the Netherlands.
In 2005, Slough Estates entered At the Rumst Logistics Park the first phase of the market through the acquisition of a 60 per 9,700 sq.
m. cent stake in an experienced local developer, was let to Cummins Diesel in early 2006.
Mainland BV, to create Slough Estates Negotiations with a tenant for the second Mainland.
Mainland is a well-respected niche phase are at an advanced stage.
developer in the Schiphol market and has worked with international occupiers such Through a joint venture with KBC Vastgoed, as Microsoft, Pfizer, Unisys, KLM and Nikon.
two light industrial properties were acquired This acquisition not only provides a strong for a gross purchase price of 3.6 million, platform to enter the Dutch market through the reflecting a net initial yield of 8.4 per cent.
experienced personnel and profile of Mainland The two properties, located in close proximity BV, but also provides access to an existing to existing holdings at Pegasus Park and at development pipeline and a strong land bank.
Relegem, provide a total of 5,600 sq.
m. office building office and light industrial accommodation.
was delivered in early 2006 to an owner Let to nine tenants, they currently produce occupier, Corendon, a Turkish travel hotel 302,000 pa.
The properties represent good agency.
Discussions are underway with medium and long-term refurbishment or occupiers on other sites.
Brussels, Belgium Pegasus Park is a modern development, designed to meet the ever-changing needs of todays businesses.
Next to Zaventem International Airport, Brussels, this 16 ha business park currently provides 115,000 sq.
m. of office accommodation in a landscaped environment.
With enviable motorway and rail links, the park also offers a 234- room four star hotel operated by NH Hotels, providing comfortable, stylish accommodation for business travellers.
Nol Coessens, General Manager, Belgium, commented: Pegasus Park is one of the premier business parks in Belgium and Europe.
It is a development that we are proud of, as are the businesses that have based themselves there.
These companies include: Johnson Controls, DHL, Regus, Siemens, Cisco Systems, Volkswagen Bank, Emerson, Sungard, NH Hotels, and McDonalds.
Top and bottom right: The Titan Building, phase 2, Pegasus Park.
Bottom left: Building 6, Pegasus Park.
Architect, Altiplan C. V. 34 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 Following the Mainland acquisition, the prime Slough Estates now owns 80 ha and controls Outlook fide Hoek site opposite the airport was a further 17 ha under short-term options in In 2006 Slough Estates aims to bring together purchased through a 51 per cent joint venture.
The logistics sites include: the individual country operations under a single, In an agreement with the local authority, this 61 ha at Strykow near Lodz on the new enhanced European presence based in Paris high-profile 17 ha site will be promoted motorway connecting Warsaw to Berlin, two and fully integrate recent corporate acquisitions to provide 108,000 sq.
m. of flexible business ha in Poznan, six ha adjacent to Prague Airport, into the existing European network.
In uniting space in a security park concept.
Work is and nine ha on the M1 motorway running west these assets, the existing portfolio and land expected to commence in 2008. out of Budapest.
Also included is a site for a bank not only provide synergies for cross- 16,000 sq.
m. suburban office development, border logistics solutions, but equally a prime Central Europe close to the airport, in the Mokotov district of development pipeline, especially in Belgium, Expansion into three new countries: Warsaw.
Negotiations with various occupiers France and the Netherlands, is suitable for the Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic are ongoing across the portfolio.
Increasingly the In December 2005, the Central European Company builds on this advantage to leverage property development operations of Grontmij, Moreover, Slough Estates has the right of first and grow customer relationships on a pana leading European engineering firm, were refusal on two further sites in Italy and Hungary European basis.
provides an immediate presence in Poland, Over the next 12 months, it is expected that the Czech Republic and Hungary with The new Central European team of 16 people the investment market will become more development teams already in place and sites is coordinated from a head office in Maastricht, competitive.
Slough Estates exceptional ready to develop.
Several of these sites form The Netherlands, with satellite offices in the position as both an investor and developer can part of an existing network of logistics parks relevant countries.
provide a significant competitive advantage which have been partially developed.
These when sellers want to sell both types of assets developments will be integrated into the Since the acquisition of the portfolio, in 2006 to one purchaser.
This advantage was European logistics network and will receive a pre-let for a new 43,000 sq.
m. distribution apparent in the acquisition of the additional investment.
and manufacturing facility was agreed with KarstadtQuelle portfolio in Germany.
In December 2005, Slough Estates acquired GREI Grontmij Real Estate International, the Central European property development operations of Grontmij, a leading European engineering firm.
Part of this portfolio is the Strykow Logistics Park in Lodz, Poland, a 61 ha site zoned for 270,000 sq.
In an encouraging start to business in Central Europe, Slough Estates has agreed to develop a new 43,000 sq.
m. warehouse and production facility for a major US manufacturer, with delivery expected in September 2006.
This pre-let is Slough Estates largest ever in Europe and one of the biggest in the Polish market.
It is a firm indication of the companys intent in Europe.
Simon Hollins, General Manager, Central Europe, commented: The Strykow Logistics Park shows clear progress in our strategy of expansion in the core sectors of logistics, light industrial and suburban office in Continental Europe.
Ease of access to the new motorway connecting Warsaw to Berlin makes this park a major hub for logistics and industrial occupiers.
Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 35
