Business Review: North America Strategy Since the adoption of the life sciences strategy Slough Estates North American business in 1994, over 465,000 sq.
m. of life sciences is positioned to exploit the growing demand space has been developed and acquired in for space from the life sciences industry, with California, with a pipeline of projects in a strategy to address the prudent management planning or under construction that totals of risk.
m. This strategy is based on the following Slough Estates acquires premium sites and major criteria: assets suitable for development, redevelopment or conversion to life sciences uses.
The current Investment in major clusters of life real estate portfolio includes approximately sciences activity 372,000 sq.
m. of life sciences product valued Our valuation surplus for the year Construction of generic industry facilities at 714.3 million, and services the two largest was 15.8 per cent or 127.5 million which are flexible, durable and adaptable biotech companies in the world Genentech and total fixed assets at year-end Development of critical mass through and Amgen.
valuation increased by 353 million multi-building estate configurations, 65 per cent from the previous year which can benefit from the expansion Close relationships with clients are a key to 959 million.
of client businesses contributer to business expansion.
The Marshall Lees Company enjoys excellent client relationships President & CEO, Slough Estates USA Inc and has a strong brand profile in the life sciences industry.
These factors will reflect positively on future business prospects.
Hacienda In the second half of the year Slough Estates sold a 71,000 sq.
m. portfolio of office properties at Pleasanton, California, for 105.6 million, a net 61.6 million, to Triple Net Properties, LLC.
Slough Estates received gross proceeds of 105.6 million for Phases I to VIII of the Pleasanton development in the Hacienda Business Park a premium of 38 per cent against the half-year valuation prior to sale of 76.5 million.
After allowing for distributions to its partner, the National Electrical Benefit Fund, Slough Estates USA realised net cash proceeds of 75.8 million.
This figure represents a 50.7 per cent increase over the book value and a 33.2 million gain over the project cost of 42.6 million 77.9 per cent.
The sale of Pleasanton at a significant premium to its most recent valuation represented a further major step in the focusing of Slough Estates US portfolio on the development of properties for biotech companies around San Francisco and San Diego.
36 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 2005 Performance Against the backdrop of a robust and resilient US economy, Slough Estates continued to expand in the life sciences sector and exit from non-core assets.
The valuation surplus for the year was 15.8 per cent or 127.5 million and total fixed assets at year-end valuation increased by 353 million 65 per cent over the previous year to 959 million.
Net absorption for the year was 22,000 sq.
m. and the vacancy rate at year end was just under 20 per cent a significant increase on last year mainly due to the acquisition of the new properties at Shoreline and Seaport.
Economic Overview Buoyed by healthy consumer spending, sustained productivity gains and low inflation, the US economy continued to perform strongly throughout 2005, despite adverse weather events, rising energy costs and a deteriorating current account.
Commercial real estate continued its gradual recovery in occupancy and rental rates in response to the general business expansion.
Slough Estates International US Property Portfolio California North California 1 South San Francisco 2 Point Eden, Hayward 3 Seaport, Redwood City 4 Shoreline, Mountain View South California 5 Bressi Business Park, Carlsbad 6 Poway Business Park, Poway 7 Torrey Pines, La Jolla With ready access to major research institutions and a growing demand for healthcare products, we believe that the life sciences sector will continue to flourish in these two major metropolitan areas.
We now have a strong property development pipeline in place to serve them.
Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 37 Business Review: North America Acquisitions and Disposals This figure represents a 50.7 per cent increase The sale of activities in the US outside the over the book value and a 33.2 million gain health sciences core has seen successes in over the project cost of 42.6 million 77.9 hitting markets at the right time.
the leisure and residential complex in Florida, known as Quail West, as well as the holding Several acquisitions were completed during in the Tipperary Oil and Gas company were the year to consolidate dominant competitive both sold, producing substantial profit over positions in the life sciences clusters in the Bay book value.
Area and San Diego County.
Following the acquisition and assembly of 32.5 ha of vacant As part of the programme of selling non-core land in four separate adjacent transactions real estate assets, an exit from the project in in the South Poway Business Park for 24.1 Elgin, Illinois, was completed by selling two million during 2004, two major parcels were buildings and 12.2 ha of vacant land for acquired in the Bressi Business Park, 8 million to PanCor Construction & Carlsbad, California in mid 2005, adding Development LLC for a net loss of 0.2 million another 16.5 ha of land costing 19.9 million.
The net proceeds reflect a gain over cost of approximately 1.1 million These purchases enabled the creation of two 17 per cent.
of the last major development sites in Central and Northern San Diego County and will In late 2005, the 10-building, 71,000 sq.
m. of estate in the Hacienda Business Park was office R&D space, placing Slough Estates in marketed for sale.
The investment was widely a prime position for the anticipated growth of marketed and subsequently sold to Triple Net demand over the balance of the decade.
The Properties LLC for 105.6 million.
After Carlsbad market features approximately 45 life allowing for proceeds to its partner National sciences companies and active marketing of Electrical Benefit Fund, Slough Estates these sites is underway to accommodate the realised net cash proceeds of 75.8 million.
expected growth of this cluster.
Shoreline and Seaport In June 2005 Slough Estates announced its purchase of two business parks in the San Francisco Peninsula for 168.1 million.
These purchases are a continuation of the stated strategy to recycle assets in California so that Slough Estates USA continues to be self-financing.
m. Shoreline Technology Center and the 58,000 sq.
m. Seaport Center from Equity Office Properties.
Major customers include life science companies: Boston Scientific, Perlegen Sciences, Abbott Laboratories, Radiant Medical and LuMend and technology company Actel.
These two  estates added almost 125,000 sq.
m. of space that is suitable for conversion to life sciences uses and will enable the Company to provide for the future growth of the industry in these locations.
The year-end valuation produced a 12.6 per cent gain over the purchase price of the two business parks.
Marshall Lees, President and CEO, Slough Estates USA, commented: The acquisition of the Shoreline and Seaport business parks strengthens our portfolio in California in the short term.
There are significant opportunities for us to add value to these projects through our established reputation and proven expertise in life science property which will attract life science customers to these well-located parks.
Top left: Shoreline, Mountain View.
Top right: Seaport, Redwood City.
Bottom left: A view of San Francisco Airport from one of Slough Estates sites in south San Francisco.
38 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 In February 2005, a 12,000 sq.
m. vacant Development small laboratories on flexible lease terms.
building adjacent to the Poway site was In December 2004, a master lease was The modular laboratory concept was acquired for 1.1 million.
This site is marketed completed with Genentech to develop developed in order to cater to these life together with two office R&D buildings totalling a 191.3 million, eight-building life sciences sciences companies requiring sophisticated 14,000 sq.
m. that were completed in mid 2005. campus on the 11.3 ha Britannia East Grand laboratory facilities for relatively short periods site in South San Francisco.
It is anticipated that this investment will In the Bay Area, two major business parks construction started on Phase I, a fouralso provide access to life sciences companies were acquired in the San Francisco Peninsula building, 42,000 sq.
m. project, which is on at the smaller end of the scale, to develop in Redwood City and Mountain View to target for completion during 2006.
Phase II, relationships and to capture opportunities for exploit the growth of local life sciences clusters consisting of four buildings totalling 31,000 future expansion.
A Phase II project of 5,800 in the respective local markets.
m. will commence construction during sq.
m. adjacent to the initial facility and Technology Park and Seaport Center were 2006.
Upon its completion and occupancy featuring four 1,400 sq.
m. units commenced acquired from Equity Office Properties in June in 2008, this project is contracted to deliver construction during the year and is scheduled for 168.1 million.
These two strategicallyan initial, annualised rental income of for completion in mid 2006. located estates added almost 125,000 sq.
of space that is suitable for conversion to life In October 2005, Amgen exercised an option sciences uses, providing for the future growth In mid 2005, Phase I of a unique modular to commence construction of the final building of the industry in these locations.
The year-end laboratory facility was completed in South San at Britannia Oyster Point, South San valuation produced a 12.6 per cent gain over Francisco.
m. office laboratory the purchase price of the two business parks.
sciences facility, featuring flexible 460 and facility is now under construction and is 930 sq.
m. laboratory units, was the product of scheduled for completion and occupancy two years planning and design and is targeted in mid 2007. at emerging biotech companies requiring Britannia East Grand In December 2004, a master lease was executed with Genentech to develop a 191.3 million, eight-building life sciences campus on the site in South San Francisco, California.
In 2005 construction started on the four-building, 42,000 sq.
m. Phase I component in 2005 and is on target for completion during 2006.
Phase II, consisting of four buildings totalling 31,000 sq.
m. will commence construction during 2006.
Upon its completion and occupancy in 2008, this project should deliver an initial, annualised rental income of approximately 19.8 million.
Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 39 Business Review: North America Development pipeline Planned redevelopment of a warehouse The level of enquiries for life sciences facilities building site in South San Francisco would in the Bay Area and San Diego County is result in the demolition of a 15,000 sq.
m. encouraging and Slough Estates is confident building, to be replaced with approximately that additional development and acquisition 29,000 sq.
m. of office laboratory space.
This transactions will take place during 2006 and project is also subject to planning consent beyond.
In order to accommodate the from the City.
anticipated growth of demand in the Bay Area, the Company is under contract to acquire Consent has been granted to redevelop a 9.3 ha site in Brisbane, California, that will another warehouse site adjacent to the support a five-building, 50,000 sq.
m. life Britannia Oyster Point project in South San sciences campus.
This project is subject Francisco.
m. industrial to planning consent.
building has been demolished and planning consent was received in March 2005 for Redevelopment of the original core of the a three-building, 29,000 sq.
m. life sciences Point Grand life sciences campus in South campus.
The expected expansion of the life San Francisco is currently under evaluation.
sciences industry in the local area should The project would convert the existing, fourprovide opportunities to lease these planned building, 16,000 sq.
m. campus, and is subject to planning consent.
Poway Business Park and Bressi Business Park Slough Estates completed several acquisitions during the year to consolidate its dominant competitive positions in the life sciences clusters in the Bay Area and San Diego County.
Following the acquisition and assembly of 32.5 ha of contiguous vacant land in four separate transactions in the South Poway Business Park for 23.9 million during 2004, two major parcels were acquired in the Bressi Business Park, Carlsbad, California in mid-2005, adding another 16.5 ha of land costing 20.9 million which will support about 65,000 sq.
The assembly of two of the last major development sites in Central and Northern San Diego County will support approximately 195,000 sq.
m. of office R&D space and position Slough Estates for the anticipated growth of demand over the balance of the decade.
The Carlsbad market features approximately 45 life sciences companies and Slough Estates is marketing its sites to accommodate the expected growth of this cluster.
40 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 Lettings Following the acquisition of the Shoreline Outlook The components of the 19.5 per cent vacancy and Seaport developments, leases were Over the past three years, substantial value rate 81,000 sq.
m. at the end of 2005 are negotiated with FoxHollow Technologies has been created for shareholders through the as follows: 12,000 sq.
m. in Shoreline and Rubicor pursuit of development opportunities in the US 2,300 sq.
These transactions life sciences market.
m. % Portfolio vindicated the decision to acquire the projects Total Vacancy 81,034 19.5 and to reposition them for progressive Building on a productive and rewarding year Completed Development 20,522 4.9 conversion to life sciences uses.
in 2005, more initiatives are in the pipeline, Acquisitions in 2005 28,828 6.9 which will generate attractive development Core Vacancy 31,752 7.7 During the year at the Point Eden estate in and investment opportunities during 2006 Hayward, California, the build-out of space and beyond.
There were major successes on the leasing for the biotech company, Accologix, was front during the year.
m. and a lease was The vacancy in the existing portfolio core million lease buy out of its obligation on the secured for the expansion of Novo Nordisk vacancy will be further reduced through 21,000 sq.
m. Sugen campus in South San 4,500 sq.
The lease on Building E 8,700 leasing and the development of pre-leased Francisco in January 2005, Slough Estates sq.
m. with Amgen will complete the build-out product.
Through aggressive marketing and assumed control of the space and signed of the Britannia Oyster Point I campus.
leasing strategies, it is also expected that the leases with Exelixis and Rinat in the first half non-core elements of vacancy completed of the year for the remaining 14,000 sq.
m. developments and acquisitions will be reduced during 2006.
Slough Estates aims to further enhance its leading position as the preeminent developer and owner of life sciences facilities in the Bay Area and San Diego County.
FoxHollow Following the acquisition of the Shoreline and Seaport developments, Slough Estates negotiated leases with FoxHollow Technologies 12,000 sq.
m. in Shoreline and Rubicor 2,300 sq.
These transactions vindicated the decision to acquire the projects and to reposition them for progressive conversion to life sciences uses.
Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 41
