BUSINESS REVIEW SURGICAL DIVISION Charlie Goodwin President, Gyrus ACMI Surgical Division 2005 PERFORMANCE 29% growth in global revenues PlasmaCision products developed for market introduction in 2006 PK System Seal open forceps Designed to seal blood vessels of up to 7mm diameter electronically.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 08 Overview ANALYSIS OF SURGICAL DIVISION REVENUES The Surgical Division is based in Minneapolis, USA.
2004 2005 - % During 2005 the Division increased its reported revenues GYNAECOLOGY US $m 32.6 40.4 24% Int m 3.1 3.7 19% in sterling by 29% to 37.2 million 2004: 28.8 million, UROLOGY US $m 6.2 7.6 23% thereby continuing its unbeaten trend of over 20% Int m 2.2 3.4 55% growth per annum since acquisition in 2000.
GENERAL SURGERY US $m 2.1 2.3 10% Int m 1.1 2.4 118% SURGICAL TOTAL US $m 40.9 50.3 23% Gynaecology Int m 6.4 9.5 48% The laparoscopic hysterectomy market currently represents a significant proportion of the Divisions TOTAL DIVISION m 28.8 37.2 29% revenues worldwide.
The Groups PK technology-derived US North American Free Trade Area NAFTA suite of instruments enables the surgeon to reduce Int World ex NAFTA trauma and blood loss and save operating time, thereby improving clinical outcomes.
The patient benefits by returning to normal activities more quickly.
During the year sales in the US grew by 24%, driven by the Groups range of PK Technology products including Cutting Forceps, sales of which grew by over 20% year on year.
Gyrus is the market leader in Laparoscopic Supracervical Hysterectomy LSH : a fully laparoscopic procedure which continues to attract increasing numbers of surgeons and prospective patients alike.
This procedure allows the patient often to avoid overnight hospitalisation and returns her to normal activities within 10-14 days, comparing very favourably with conventional key requirement for future success in this area has open hysterectomy where the patient is in hospital for 3-5 successfully been achieved ahead of plan.
This is the days and return to normal activities can take 6-8 weeks.
creation of the PK bipolar working element, which allows the PK instruments to fit the ACMI resectoscope, In March the Division introduced the PlasmaSpatula, enabling See and Treat in prostate resection and incorporating PK PlasmaCision technology, as an bladder tumour surgery.
This development was additional instrument for the LSH market: it performed completed in November and enabled the sales team well in the first nine months and had accumulated to start 2006 with the PK SuperPulse as a deliverable over $1 million in revenues by the year end.
This was product opportunity to existing ACMI customers.
a good performance for a peripheral instrument in the gynaecology field and supported the Groups view of Internationally, revenues increased by 55% year on year, PlasmaCision as adding improved cutting and assisted by the acquisition of the Groups Australian haemostasis to PK Technology.
distributor, Urology Solutions, now Gyrus Australasia in March 2005, and continued growth in the sale of Internationally, the Gynaecology business grew by 19% SuperPulse generators.
as sales of PK instruments increased in Europe and the Far East.
The underlying performance in Gynaecology General Surgery was reasonably strong despite the uncertainty among US domestic sales in General Surgery rose by international distributors caused by the long term distributor approximately 10%.
The post-acquisition realignment selection process, which was commenced after the of the Divisions, in advance of the Groups introduction ACMI acquisition.
of its PlasmaCision-derived suite of instruments for laparoscopic abdominal surgery, resulted in the Surgical Urology Division taking on a number of ACMIs general surgery In 2005 the Urology business grew its US revenues by products.
This had minimal sales effect in 2005 but will 23% as a result of the continued success in the first nine have an impact in 2006. months of the PK Technology SuperPulse system for Trans Urethral Resection of the Prostate TURP Internationally, General Surgery sales grew by over procedures.
This is the area most likely to benefit from 118% to 2.4 million, principally as a result of the the acquisition of ACMI, as the product range is now success of a range of distributed endoscopic sheath promoted by the Urology & Gynaecology Division.
Plasma Trissector Close up of the Plasma Gyrus Group PLC Cision-derived Plasma Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Trissector showing its cut and simultaneous seal 09 electrode arrangement.
Overview BUSINESS The Urology & Gynaecology Division is headquartered REVIEW in Southborough, Massachusetts.
It is the single largest Division of Gyrus Group, having contributed revenues UROLOGY of $89.1 million 50.4 million for the 23 weeks to & GYNAECOLOGY 31 December 2005.
DIVISION ACMI The acquisition of ACMI was completed on 21 July 2005.
The business became the core of the Groups Urology & Gynaecology Division receiving the former Gyruss urology product range SuperPulse and associated instruments, and ceding certain laparoscopic instruments and insufflation equipment to the Surgical Division.
These product swaps had very limited impact upon the 2005 results except in so far as the sales of some products were temporarily reduced during the initial hiatus period before the completion of the sales and product integration process.
ACMI had historically grown revenues at an average of approximately 4.5% per annum for the last few years.
In 2005 it increased sales growth to approximately 6.5%.
Revenues are analysed between capital, disposable and service sales.
Capital sales comprise principally the sale of scopes, camera and video systems and associated light sources together with the sale of electrosurgery and laser generators.
Total domestic US capital sales for the whole of 2005 were $57.4 million unaudited.
Disposable sales comprise primarily electrosurgery instruments, probes, stents, retrieval baskets, insufflation and irrigation tubing and laser fibres.
Total domestic US sales of disposables amounted to $71.0 million in 2005 unaudited.
Finally service revenue comprises fees for the repair of capital goods such as fibrescopes, which can generate significant repair costs over the life of the unit.
Total domestic US service sales for 2005 were approximately $35.0 million unauditied.
Larry Hicks President, Gyrus ACMI Urology Principal areas of business & Gynaecology Division The Urology & Gynaecology Division is the overall market leader in Urology surgery in the US.
It has two core areas of strength: Cystoscopy and Resection This area comprises the provision of See and Treat endoscopic solutions to urologists for diagnosis and treatment of conditions of the prostate and bladder.
It builds upon ACMIs acknowledged strength in flexible 2005 PERFORMANCE endoscopy for transurethral visualisation and comprises Annualised revenues grew by a suite of instruments, scopes and cameras.
ACMI is 6.5% versus 4.3% in 2004 Cystoscopy and resection revenues improve by 10% year-on-year Stone retrieval system A close up of a retrieval basket which enables the Gyrus Group PLC surgeon to catch and Annual Report and Accounts 2005 remove fragments of kidney stone through a working 10 channel in the ureteroscope.
ANNUALISED ANALYSIS OF SALES REVENUES Capital sales 35% Disposable sales 43% Service sales 22% A cystourethroscope market leader in cysto-resection with national account An instrument combining the coverage.
Gyruss SuperPulse platform and related loops uses of a cystoscope and a urethroscope, whereby both and electrodes for conducting transurethral resection of the bladder and urethra can the prostate TURP procedures has significant be visually inspected.
advantages for urologists, including speed of resection and improved haemostasis.
By the year-end this product had become available, after the development of the PK working element essentially an adaptor, to fit the installed base of ACMI resectoscopes.
Accordingly, one of the potential revenue synergies associated with the acquisition will become achievable from 2006 onwards.
Annual domestic US revenues in cystoscopy and resection increased by approximately 10% in 2005 unaudited.
Urethroscopy and Stone Management The Urology & Gynaecology Division is a leader in kidney stone management with a full suite of flexible and semirigid ureteroscopes and percutaneous nephroscopes for looking into the kidney, either via the urethra and ureters or through the skin.
In addition the Division provides a range of devices for breaking the stones lithotripsy including lasers, for retrieving fragments retrieval baskets, stents for protecting and retaining the patency of the ureters and associated probes and guidewires.
Annual domestic US revenues in the urethroscopy and stone management area increased 6.5% in 2005 unaudited.
Other Urology & Gynaecology products The Urology & Gynaecology Division has a range of other diagnostic and treatment products including hysteroscopic products for treating uterine conditions, minimally invasive female sterilisation products and other gynaecology products.
In addition the Division is seeking to position itself to assist urologists in the increasing trend towards performing more diagnostic and treatment procedures in the office setting rather than the operating room.
Current products in this area include diagnostic equipment for urodynamics testing and certain flexible scopes such as the digital cystoscope with built in light source.
Over the coming years this area is likely to be a significant focus for the Division.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11 BUSINESS ANALYSIS OF ENT DIVISION REVENUES 2004 2005 - % REVIEW OTOLOGY US $m 23.6 24.5 4% Int m 4.9 5.0 2% ENT DIVISION SINUS & RHINOLOGY US $m 15.2 16.0 5% Int m 1.5 1.1 -27% HEAD & NECK US $m 10.4 10.7 3% Int m 5.1 6.0 18% ENT TOTAL US $m 49.2 51.3 4% Int m 11.5 12.1 5% TOTAL DIVISION m 38.4 40.1 4.5% US North American Free Trade Area NAFTA Int World ex NAFTA Overview 2005 was the year in which the Ear, Nose and Throat ENT Division introduced its first PK Technology-based products in the sinus and rhinology and head and neck sectors.
The first half saw revenue growth of approximately 8% helped by a strong otology business and the introduction and evaluation phase for both the PK Diego and the Tonsil PlasmaKnife.
Growth slowed in the second half as the divisional management was restructured after the ACMI acquisition.
The Division finished the year with revenues 4.5% higher at 40.1 million 2004: 38.4 million and good marketing and technique positions established for the new Bob Hoxie products.
As a result of the management restructuring, President, Gyrus ACMI ENT Division President Bob Hoxie, previously Vice President of Sales, and a new marketing team was put in place in November to focus on 2006 and beyond.
Otology The Otology business represents approximately half the ENT Divisions revenues and comprises vent tubes grommets and middle ear implants together with related surgical instruments, drills and scopes.
The Otology 2005 PERFORMANCE business, which enjoys a market share of circa 60% Revenue growth of 4.5% in the US, grew by 4% during the year, an improvement Launched first PK Technology products on the previous years 1%.
The core vent tubes and implants business grew at expected rates, however to ENT surgeons there was greater growth in otology drill systems and instruments including myringotomy blades which mitigated the year-on-year decline in sales of RetroX, the hearing enhancement line which was discontinued during the year.
Internationally, Otology revenues increased by 2%.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 12 Sinus & Rhinology The Sinus and Rhinology business grew its US revenues by 5%.
The Diego Microdebrider system continued its strong performance with revenue growth in excess of 16% over 2004.
The launch of the PK Diego blade, which enables haemostasis to be achieved in situ, supported this performance.
Growth in the Diego portfolio, however, was masked by a decline in sales of the Sepra nasal packing product range in the face of competitive activity, and declines in externally sourced sinus scopes and video equipment.
Internationally, revenues decreased by 27% year-on-year having held level at the half year stage as a result of uncertainty in the distributor markets over the long term effect of the ACMI acquisition.
Head & Neck The Head and Neck business provides somnoplasty products, for the treatment of sleep disorders, together with a range of flexible nasopharyngoscopes, laryngeal implants and associated surgical instruments.
During 2005, the business continued to hold off the reimbursement-based decline in palate and base of tongue procedures with growth in volume reduction of turbinates and the introduction of the PlasmaCisionbased PlasmaKnife for tonsillectomy.
This product underwent a repositioning and technique change in the fourth quarter as a result of feedback from the evaluation sites.
Overall, the Head and Neck business grew US sales by just over 3% year-on-year.
This business has successfully moved away from protecting the temperature controlled volumetric tissue reduction Somnus revenue stream, which is declining due to the continued absence of a full reimbursement code for the procedure.
Now the focus is on building the market position for the new G3 Generator as a workstation with broad utility to the head and neck surgeon.
This PK Technology platform powers both the Somnus and PK Technology instruments and PlasmaCision-based instruments.
The Tonsil PlasmaKnife was the first such product and the Surgical Dissector is due in the next six months to address procedures such as radical partial neck dissection and parotidectomy.
Internationally, the business grew by 18% primarily as a result of the re-purchase of the Groups Australian distribution rights in ENT and the introduction of the Tonsil PlasmaKnife into certain direct markets.
The Diego Microdebrider The PK Diego System, launched in 2005, now enables sinus and rhinology surgeons to use the same instrument to debride and achieve haemostasis, when operating in the nasal cavity.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 BUSINESS REVIEW PARTNERED TECHNOLOGIES DIVISION Our partners: DePuy Mitek Gynecare Ethicon Endosurgery Guidant Conmed Rhytec Arthroscopy electrode 2005 PERFORMANCE Licensed to, and manufactured for, DePuy Revenue growth of 15% to 22.7m Mitek.
This suction electrode is used for removal, 2004: 19.7m shrinkage and extraction of cartilage and soft tissue from Successful launch of Rhytecs Cisco knee and shoulder joints.
PSR system in cosmetic and dermatological surgery Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 14 Arthroscopy ANALYSIS OF PARTNERED TECHNOLOGIES DIVISION REVENUES DePuy Mitek supplies the VAPR 3 system into Arthroscopy 47% arthroscopic markets for the removal and shrinkage Hysteroscopy 18% Cardiovascular 19% of soft tissue primarily in the knee and shoulder joints.
GI cosmetic other 16% This business has been driven by the success of the low profile suction LPS and large diameter suction LDS instruments first introduced in 2003.
A new low cost electrode was introduced at the end of 2004.
This resulted in a poor revenue comparison in the first half on account of the lower average selling price, but volume growth was still strong.
In the second half, the benefit of volume growth outweighed the adverse selling price comparison and led to overall annual growth of 12%.
Hysteroscopy In hysteroscopy, Gynecare supplies the Versapoint system into hysteroscopic gynaecology for the removal of benign uterine pathologies and the removal of the endometrial lining.
Sales increased by 6% on the year.
Cardiovascular Guidant utilises a series of instruments for the harvesting of the saphenous vein for coronary artery bypass grafts in the cardiovascular field.
Product sales to Guidant decreased marginally by 1%.
This decrease occurred The Partnered Technologies Division exploits the Groups in the fourth quarter, which saw an 18% reduction in proprietary technology by out-licensing it, usually in sales compared with the equivalent period in the prior conjunction with a manufacturing contract, for markets year.
During that quarter the takeover battle for Guidant outside our core areas of sales and marketing between Johnson & Johnson and Boston Scientific competence.
may have had a temporary effect on sales and stocking policy for the product.
The business consists of development, license, and supply relationships with Johnson & Johnson companies Gastro-intestinal Cosmetic Surgery Other DePuy Mitek, Ethicon EndoSurgery and Gynecare, This comprises two long-standing relationships with Guidant, Conmed and Rhytec.
The business is shared Ethicon EndoSurgery and Conmed.
Sales to these between Gyruss Cardiff and Minneapolis manufacturing partners declined by 0.5%.
However, there were plants, each catering for the requirements of certain significant sales of launch units to Rhytec to support the partners.
Overall, the Partnered Technologies business introduction of the Cisco Plasma Skin Resurfacing PSR grew revenue by 15% 14% on a constant currency product in the mid year.
This resulted in overall growth in basis to 22.7 million in 2005 2004: 19.7 million.
annual revenues of over 80% for this part of the business.
This represented a significant turnaround from the In addition, during 2005 the Cardiff plant received half year when the Division reported a marginal decline development fees of 1.5 million 2004: 0.6 million in revenue.
for its work on the development of the Cisco system.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 15 WE HAVE THE VISION TO BUILD AND INTEGRATE OUR BUSINESSES WE HAVE THE POWER OF TWO INNOVATIVE R&D ORGANISATIONS
