14 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Business and financial review Hikma is a multinational pharmaceutical group focused on developing, manufacturing and marketing a broad range of generic and in-licensed pharmaceutical products in solid, semi-solid, liquid and injectable final dosage forms This business and financial review has been prepared solely Across our three core businesses Generic, Branded and to provide additional information to shareholders as a body Injectable Pharmaceuticals, we have three key strategic aims: to assess the Companys strategies and the potential for those 1.
Consolidate our strong market position in the MENA strategies to succeed, and should not be relied on by any region by launching new products, expanding our other party or for any other purpose.
This review contains geographic reach and increasing market share: forward-looking statements that have been made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to 2.
Grow our Injectable Pharmaceuticals business by successfully them up to the time of their approval of this report and should launching new products into the MENA region, United be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, States and Europe and strengthening our sales and including both economic and business risk factors, underlying marketing network: and any such forward-looking information.
Continue to pursue profitable growth in the United States The Directors, in preparing this review, have been guided by by focusing on high margin, niche product opportunities.
the Accounting Standards Boards 2003 Statement on We have made significant progress in 2005 towards achieving Operating and Financial Reviews.
The Directors will seek these objectives.
We have maintained and, in some cases, to comply fully with the 2006 Reporting Statement in the increased our market share in key markets in the MENA Companys next annual report and accounts.
region, where we have also expanded into new markets and launched new products.
We have nearly doubled revenue in Our business our Injectable Pharmaceutical business through a combination Hikma is a multinational pharmaceutical group focused on of new product launches and increased focus on sales and developing, manufacturing and marketing a broad range marketing.
In the challenging US generic market, where of generic and in-licensed pharmaceutical products in solid, pricing has become more competitive and margin pressure semi-solid, liquid and injectable final dosage forms.
At the increased in the second half of the year, we have delivered end of 2005, we had 115 generic pharmaceutical products solid revenue growth and maintained gross margins for the in 256 dosage strengths and forms in our product portfolio.
Hikma also sells 25 pharmaceutical products under promotion and distribution agreements with, or licences from, Our progress on our strategic objectives is monitored by the 12 originator pharmaceutical companies and one generic Board by reference to five key financial performance indicators pharmaceutical company.
applied on a Group-wide and segmental basis.
These same indicators are used by executive management to manage the The majority of our operations are in the United States, the business.
Performance in 2005 against these indicators is set Middle East and North Africa and Europe.
out in the table below, together with the prior year Our strategy for growth is to build a strong and diverse performance data.
product portfolio: to expand our geographic reach: to develop and leverage our global research and development capabilities and API sourcing strengths: and to continue to maintain the very high standards of our manufacturing capabilities.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 15 Group operating expenses grew in 2005 by 48.9% to Year ended 31 December Hikmas key performance $70.0 million, compared to $47.1 million for the prior year indicators 2005 2004 Change period.
Sales and marketing expenses increased by 38.7% to Revenue growth 23.5% 14.1% 9.4% $27.4 million, due primarily to a significant increase in sales and marketing headcount in the MENA region for both the Gross margin 51.8% 51.1% 0.7% Branded and Injectable Pharmaceuticals businesses.
Sales and Operating margin 26.4% 29.5% 3.1% marketing expenses represented 10.4% of Group revenue in R&D costs as a percentage 2005, compared to 9.3% in the prior year period.
of revenue 6.3% 4.6% 1.7% Year ended 31 December Profit attributable to 2005 2004 shareholders $ million 43.9 37.5 17.1% Total S&M expenses $ million 27.4 19.7 Group performance As a percentage of revenue 10.4% 9.3% Revenue for the Group increased by 23.5% to $262.2 million, compared to $212.4 million in the prior year period.
The Groups general and administrative expenses increased The increase was primarily due to strong increases in revenue by 49.8% to $22.6 million, compared to $15.1 million in the in both the Injectable and Branded Pharmaceuticals businesses, prior year period.
The change can be attributed to an increase as well as a solid performance from our Generic in corporate expenses, which increased by $1.7 million to Pharmaceuticals business.
$8.2 million as we strengthened corporate functions in preparation for our public listing.
In addition, we saw an In 2005, 43.9% of revenue was generated by our Generic increase in general and administrative expenses in our Generic Pharmaceuticals business, 35.5% of revenue was generated Pharmaceuticals business, especially with respect to consulting by our Branded Pharmaceuticals business and 18.8% by our and IT costs related to the implementation of SAP.
49.8% of revenue was generated in the also reflects the consolidation of general and administrative United States, while 42.4% of revenue was generated in the expenses of IBPP in Italy, the subsidiary acquired during the first MENA region and 7.8% in Europe.
General and administrative expenses represented The Groups cost of sales increased by 21.6% to 8.6% of Group revenue in 2005, compared to 7.1% in the $126.4 million, compared to $103.9 million for the prior year prior year period.
Cost of sales represented 48.2% of Group revenue, Year ended 31 December compared to 48.9% for the prior year period.
The Groups 2005 2004 gross profit increased by 25.2% to $135.8 million, compared to $108.4 million in the prior year period.
Group gross Total investment in G&A $ million 22.6 15.1 margins for 2005 were 51.8% of revenue, compared to As a percentage of revenue 8.6% 7.1% 51.1% in the prior year period.
On a segmental basis, gross margins improved in the Branded and Injectable Pharmaceuticals businesses, and remained stable in the Generic Pharmaceuticals business despite margin pressure in the second half of the year.
16 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Business and financial review continued Investment in R&D for the Group increased by 70.7% to Research & Development $16.5 million, compared to $9.7 million in the prior year In the year to 31 December 2005, Hikma submitted period.
This increase can be attributed primarily to the Generic 73 regulatory filings, including 19 ANDAs.
These included Pharmaceuticals business, where we saw an increase in the filings for new products, which include pharmaceutical number of ANDA filings and associated bio-equivalency costs compounds not yet launched by the Company and existing and the hiring of new scientists and technicians for the R&D compounds being introduced into new regions and countries, centre in Jordan.
Total investment in R&D represented 6.3% and line extensions the registration of new dosage strengths of Group revenue in 2005, compared to 4.6% in the prior or forms of existing products.
Pending Year ended 31 December approvals 2005 2004 Pending of new New approvals products Total investment in R&D $ million 16.5 9.7 product as of as of As a percentage of revenue 6.3% 4.6% Filings in filings in 31 Dec 31 Dec 2005 2005 2005 2005 Other operating expenses increased by $1.0 million to $3.6 million, compared to $2.6 million in the prior year Generic period, primarily as a result of the cost of setting up the new Pharmaceuticals manufacturing facilities in Algeria that commenced operations United States 14 10 21 13 early in 2006.
Branded Other operating income increased by $1.4 million to Pharmaceuticals $2.0 million, compared to $0.6 million in the prior year MENA region 16 582 period, consisting mainly of management fees from JPI.
Europe 4191 20 6 17 3 Share of results of associates, now included in operating profit Injectable as they are considered to be core to the Groups activities, Pharmaceuticals were $1.4 million in 2005, compared to $0.7 million in the United States 5 5 16 13 prior year period.
MENA region 23 11 23 11 Operating profit for the Group increased by 10.3% to Europe 11 5 11 5 $69.2 million, compared to $62.7 million in the prior year 39 21 50 29 period.
Group operating margin declined 3.1% to 26.4% in 2005, compared to 29.5% of revenue in the prior year period.
73 37 88 45 We estimate that the currently marketed equivalent products of the 45 new products covered by the Groups pending approvals had sales of approximately $9.0 billion in the year ended 31 December 2005 in the markets covered by the pending approvals.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 17 At 31 December 2005, we had a total of 90 products under Gross profit of the Generic Pharmaceuticals business increased development, the majority of which should receive several by 8.3% to $62.3 million, compared to $57.5 million in the marketing authorisations, including separate marketing prior year period.
The Generic Pharmaceuticals businesss gross authorisations in differing strengths and or product forms margin remained stable at 54.1%, despite a significant between 2006 and 2009. reduction in gross margin in the second half of the year resulting from increased pricing pressure.
Generic Pharmaceuticals Generic Pharmaceuticals operating profit decreased by Generic Pharmaceuticals remains our largest business in terms 5.6% to $38.8 million.
Operating margins in the Generic of revenue, contributing 43.9 % of total Group revenue in Pharmaceuticals business decreased to 33.6% of revenue, 2005, compared to 50.0% in the prior year period.
As in compared to 38.6% in the prior year period.
The decrease 2004, all Generic Pharmaceutical revenues were generated in in operating margin can be attributed to an increase in the United States.
investment in R&D as a result of increased spending on Revenue in our Generic Pharmaceuticals business increased by bio-equivalence studies in both the United States and Jordan 8.5% to $115.2 million, compared to $106.2 million in the as well as an increase in general and administrative expenses prior year period.
The change was primarily due to an increase related to personnel, consulting and IT-related activities.
in sales volumes offset by price declines.
During the year, two new products were launched.
Branded Pharmaceuticals The pharmaceutical market in the MENA region tends to Revenue from the Generic Pharmaceuticals business top-ten be a branded market, in which patented, generic and OTC sellers represented 68.6% of Generic Pharmaceutical revenue pharmaceutical products are marketed under specific brand in 2005.
Leading products included Lisinopril, Folic acid and names.
Our Branded Pharmaceuticals business manufactures Lithium carbonate SR. branded generic pharmaceutical products for sale across the In December 2005 we successfully renewed our sales contract MENA region and, increasingly, Europe.
with the Department of Veterans Affairs, an agency of the Revenue in our Branded Pharmaceuticals business increased government of the United States, for the supply of Lisinopril.
by 25.7% to $93.0 million, compared to $74.0 million in the This renewal represented the exercise of the 3rd Option Year prior year period.
The increase was due primarily to an increased for the contract with a contract period between 21 December focus on our strongest products and to the strengthening of 2005 and 20 December 2006.
All other terms and conditions our sales and marketing efforts across the region.
of the contract, including pricing, remain unchanged.
Lisinopril accounted for 33.4% of Generic Pharmaceuticals revenue and In line with our strategic objectives for the Branded 14.7% of Group revenue in 2005.
Pharmaceuticals business, we launched five new products in 2005.
We also restructured our sales and marketing Cost of sales of the Generic Pharmaceuticals business capabilities across the MENA region, creating separate increased by 8.4% to $52.9 million, compared to sales teams for Branded and Injectable products.
We ended $48.8 million in the prior year period.
Cost of sales of the year with 280 Branded sales and marketing representatives the Generic Pharmaceuticals business represented 45.9% across the MENA region.
of the Generic businesss total revenue in 2005, unchanged from the prior year period.
New pharmaceutical compounds that are being launched for the first time within a business segment.
18 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Business and financial review continued Algeria, Saudi Arabia and Jordan remained the Branded In line with our strategy of expanding our geographic reach Pharmaceuticals businesss three key markets in 2005. in the MENA region, we established our own distribution In 2005 our market share in Algeria increased slightly to company in Lebanon in 2005, which will enable us to register 3.2%, compared to 3.0% in the prior year period, maintaining more products and give us more control of our sales and our position as the seventh largest pharmaceutical distribution operations in this growing market.
manufacturer and second largest generic pharmaceutical Revenue from the Branded Pharmaceuticals business top-ten manufacturer by value in the Algerian market.
During the year sellers represented 80.2% of Branded Pharmaceutical revenue we increased the number of medical reps and launched a in 2005.
Leading products included Amoclan, Prograf and Suprax.
number of new products into the market.
The completion of our manufacturing facilities in Algeria at the end of 2005, Cost of sales of the Branded Pharmaceuticals business increased and the subsequent approval of the facilities by the Algerian by 14.5% to $39.3 million, compared to $34.3 million in the Ministry of Health in early 2006, will enable us to produce prior year period.
Cost of sales of the Branded Pharmaceuticals products locally for the Algerian market.
Our new local business represented 42.3% of the businesss total revenue, presence should also help to expedite the registration of new compared to 46.4% in the prior year period.
Gross profit of the products for this market.
Branded Pharmaceuticals business increased by 35.3% to $53.7 million, compared to $39.7 million in the prior year In early 2006, the Algerian Ministry of Labour and Social period.
The Branded Pharmaceuticals businesss gross margin Security Affairs announced changes to its reimbursement increased to 57.8%, compared to 53.6% in the prior year system, including the introduction of reference pricing for period.
This improvement in gross profit margin reflects a number of reimbursable products.
This new legislation efficiency improvements in our production planning process is expected to impact current pricing of some, but not all, and increased economies of scale as well as an improvement in of our products sold in Algeria.
We expect to be able to product and geographical sales mix.
minimise the effect of these price declines by introducing new products and by increasing the sales volume, through Branded Pharmaceuticals operating profit increased by 28.2% greater promotion of those Hikma products that are on the in 2005, to $28.8 million.
Operating margins in the Branded reference price list but that have potential for sales growth.
Pharmaceuticals business were 30.9% in 2005, up from 30.3% in 2004.
A strong performance in Saudi Arabia was driven, in part, by the launch of new products and to a restructuring of the Injectable Pharmaceuticals sales force, which included management changes and Our Injectable Pharmaceuticals business manufactures increased specialisation by the medical reps.
In Saudi Arabia, injectable generic pharmaceutical products in powder, liquid our combined market share in value terms, including that and lyophilised forms for sale across the MENA region, the of our associate business JPI, increased to 3.5% in 2005, United States and Europe.
Injectable Pharmaceuticals is our compared to 3.1% in the prior year period, making us the fastest growing and most geographically diverse business, sixth largest player in the Saudi Arabian market.
contributing 18.8% of total Group revenue in 2005, In Jordan we gave particular focus to our key products and compared to 13.6% in the prior year period.
As in Algeria and Saudi Arabia, Revenue in our Injectable Pharmaceuticals business increased we also launched new products in the Jordanian market.
by 70.8% to $49.3 million, compared to $28.9 million in We maintained our position as market leader for the full year, the prior year period.
The increase was due primarily to with a market share of 6.4% in value terms.
strong performances in all key geographic regions, driven by enhanced sales and marketing efforts and new product launches.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 19 Revenues were particularly strong in the United States, where During the year, we focused on developing our sales and we launched a new form of cefazoline in the first quarter of marketing capabilities across all geographies and ended 2005 and secured sales contracts with three new customers.
the year with 51 sales reps in the MENA region and nine in In the MENA region, a strong performance was driven by Europe five in Portugal and four in Germany.
Since the the development of a dedicated sales force of 51 sales beginning of 2006, we have added four additional sales and representatives and the introduction of new products.
marketing employees in Europe two sales reps in Germany, In Europe, the acquisition of IBPP in Italy and our newly a sales director for the Benelux and a sales rep in Italy.
established operations in Germany, which included four We have also enhanced our injectable presence in the sales and marketing employees at year end, helped to boost US through the appointment of a General Manager and Injectable Pharmaceuticals sales.
Revenue from the Injectable Pharmaceuticals businesss Also in 2005 construction began on our new Cephalosporin top-ten sellers represented 69.0% of Injectable Pharmaceuticals plant in Portugal, which will host three new production lines, revenue in 2005, compared to 86.9% in the prior year period.
The plant is on track to Cephalosporins continue to be the segments top sellers, begin production in the first half of 2007. while leading liquid injectables included Diclofenac sodium, Ciprofloxacin and Atracurium.
We also successfully launched Other businesses our Injectable portfolios first pre-filled syringe product, Other businesses, which include primarily Arab Medical HIBOR, an in-licensed low molecular weight heparin for Containers, a manufacturer of plastic specialised packaging, the MENA region.
and International Pharmaceuticals Research Centre, which conducts bio-equivalency studies, had aggregate revenue in Cost of sales of the Injectable Pharmaceuticals business 2005 of $4.7 million, or 1.8% of total Group revenue.
increased by 61.8% to $30.9 million, compared to $19.1 million in the prior year period.
Cost of sales of the Financial performance Injectable Pharmaceuticals business represented 62.6% of the businesss total revenue compared to 66.3% in the Flotation costs prior year period.
Gross profit of the Injectable Pharmaceuticals Flotation costs related to our listing on the London Stock business increased by 89.7% to $18.4 million, compared Exchange IPO recognised in the income statement were to $9.7 million in the prior year period.
The Injectable $1.4 million in 2005, compared to $0.4 million in the prior Pharmaceuticals businesss gross margin increased to 37.4%, year period.
The direct costs of the issue of new shares compared to 33.7% in the prior year period.
The increase in of $10.8 million have been charged to the share gross profit margin reflects the increased scalability of the premium account.
business as we achieved higher utilisation rates and as fixed Finance income manufacturing expenses decreased as a percentage of sales.
The Groups financing income includes interest income and Injectable Pharmaceuticals operating profit increased by net foreign exchange gains from non-trading activities.
107.3% to $8.5 million, compared to $4.1 million in the Financing income increased by $1.3 million to $1.6 million prior year period, despite increased spending on R&D and in 2005, compared to $0.3 million the prior year period.
Injectable operating margins improved The increase was due primarily to interest earned on proceeds to 17.2% in 2005, up from 14.1% in the prior year period.
generated from the Groups IPO and interest generated from The increased scalability of the business also explains this cash deposits in the United States.
20 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Business and financial review continued Finance costs Cash flow and investment Financing costs increased by $1.4 million to $5.2 million, Net cash inflow from operating activities was $32.7 million compared to $3.8 million in the prior year period.
This increase in the year to 31 December 2005 compared to $32.8 million relates primarily to borrowings for working capital purposes in in the year to 31 December 2004.
Net working capital the Branded and Injectable Pharmaceuticals segments.
increased by $24.1 million, primarily due to the relatively higher portion of sales generated in the MENA region, Profit before tax where collection periods are generally higher, as well as to Profit before tax for the Group increased by $5.4 million, or higher receivables in our Generic business.
Debtor days 9.1%, from $59.0 million in 2004 to $64.4 million in 2005. increased slightly from 103 days in 2004 to 108 days in 2005.
Tax Meanwhile, inventory days increased from 156 days to 168 The Group had tax expenses of $19.5 million in 2005. days primarily due to higher levels of raw materials.
The effective tax rate was 30.2%, a year on year decrease Net cash used in investing activities was $16.4 million in the of 5.1%.
The tax rate decrease was due to a shift in the year to 31 December 2005 compared to $25.4 million in the geographic mix towards lower tax countries, particularly in same period in 2004.
The most significant investing activities the MENA region as well as to a change in the geographic in 2005 were purchases of property, plant and equipment mix of the origin of production to product sourcing from amounting to $23.4 million, offset by the realisation of subsidiaries in lower tax countries.
investments in cash deposits of $7.7 million.
Minority interest Total cash paid for the purchase of businesses was $0.8 million.
The profit attributable to Hikmas minority interest increased This expenditure was mainly on the acquisition of IBPP in Italy.
Net cash from financing activities in the twelve months to Profit for the year 31 December 2005 was $77.4 million compared to net cash The Groups profit for the year attributable to equity holders of used in financing activities of $5.4 million in the year to the parent grew by 17.1% to $43.9 million for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Significant financing activities in 2005 31 December 2005. included $124.9 million generated from the issue of new shares.
Earnings per share Capital expenditure Diluted earnings per share for the year to 31 December 2005 Capital expenditures were driven primarily by investment in were 28.3 cents, up 14.1% from 24.8 cents in 2004. our new facilities in Algeria, the new cephalosporin plant Dividend in Portugal and the construction of a new quality control The Board has recommended a pro rata final dividend laboratory and research and development facility in Jordan.
for the period from float to 31 December 2005 of During the year the Group also made regular investments in 0.89 cents per share approximately 0.5 pence equivalent to upgrading and maintaining existing facilities.
approximately 5.34 cents on a full year basis.
The proposed Balance sheet final dividend will be paid on 30 May 2006 to shareholders The Groups cash balance increased by $94.5 million in 2005 on the register on 28 April 2006, subject to approval at the to $135.9 million, as a direct result of the Groups initial public Annual General Meeting.
offering of new shares as well as normal operating activities, which generated $124.9 million and $32.7 million, respectively.
This was partially offset by capital expenditures, debt repayments and dividends.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 21 The Groups net cash position at 31 December 2005 In 2006 it is possible that regulatory changes could impact was $86.9 million, compared to a net debt position of our businesses.
In the United States, the Medicare Act 2003 $13.9 million at 31 December 2004.
Net cash debt is will be fully implemented in 2006.
Implementation is likely calculated as the total of investments in cash deposits, to increase the overall volume of drugs sold, as well as the collateralised cash and cash and cash equivalents less government-funded share of existing volumes.
Given the bank overdrafts and the current and long-term portion of governments emphasis on containing costs, the generic loans and obligations under finance leases.
share of the overall market should increase by volume albeit at lower prices.
It is very difficult to predict what impact, Share price if any, implementation of the Medicare Act will have on The Groups share price closed at 404.75 pence on Hikmas profitability.
30 December 2005, an increase of 39.6% since listing on the London Stock Exchange on 1 November 2005 at In early 2006, the Algerian Ministry of Labour and Social an offer price of 290 pence.
The Groups total shareholder Security Affairs announced changes to its reimbursement return for this period was 39.6%, compared to 14.4% for system, including the introduction of reference pricing the FTSE 250 30.2% for the full year and 4.5% for the for a number of reimbursable products.
This new legislation FTSE 350 pharmaceuticals sector 32.4% for the full year, is expected to impact current pricing of some, but not all, with the stock outperforming both indices over the period.
of our products sold in Algeria.
We expect to be able to During this period the shares closing price ranged from minimise the effect of these price declines by introducing new a low of 277 pence in November 2005 to a high of products and by increasing the sales volume, through greater 404.75 pence at 30 December 2005. promotion of those Hikma products that are on the reference price list but that have potential for sales growth.
Risk Management Industry, economic and political dynamics Operational risks The Group operates in diverse markets and geographic regions There are a number of factors that have or could in the future and is therefore subject to diverse industry, economic and affect the Groups results of operations, including the following: political dynamics.
However, we believe the geographic spread of our operations gives the Group unique strength and Regulatory flexibility and also lessens the impact on the Groups results In common with other companies operating in and financial conditions due to disruption in or any other the pharmaceutical industry, Hikma is subject to extensive extraordinary events at any one of our three businesses or a regulation in all the markets in which it operates.
There is change in the economic conditions or political environment or no single worldwide harmonised set of regulations relating sustained civil unrest in any particular market or country.
to the development, manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products and we are therefore subject to different laws, regulations and codes depending on the regions or countries in which our businesses are operating.
22 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Business and financial review continued Pricing Dynamics API and other raw material costs Pricing for the Groups products reflect a variety of factors, API costs make up a significant portion of our raw material including changes in API and other raw material costs, costs.
Whilst the prices of the API that the Group uses have intensity of competition, industry practice, governmental in general fallen in recent years, these prices are volatile and regulation and general market conditions.
Generic can vary significantly from supplier to supplier.
In some cases, pharmaceutical markets in the United States and Europe are increase in API and other raw material costs may not be extremely competitive and or regulated by governments, both able to be passed on to customers and can therefore have of which result in downward pressure on prices.
We aim to a significant impact on the Groups results.
Hikma has a maximise the margins we achieve on our products through dedicated API sourcing function that has been successful in competitive pricing strategies together with initiatives to sourcing lower cost APIs including sourcing through more minimise raw materials and other manufacturing and competitive suppliers in Asia.
Seasonality Government tender bids The Groups business, in particular the Branded Whilst the majority of Group sales have been to the private Pharmaceuticals business, is seasonal, and it generally sector, each of our three businesses participates in government experiences higher net sales and net profit in the first half of tenders.
The timing and outcome of these tenders are each financial year, as compared to the second half of its unpredictable, and the Groups results could be affected by the financial year.
Accordingly, the Groups outstanding borrowings gain or loss of a significant government contract.
historically have been higher during the first half of the financial year to finance the working capital requirements of Research and development and commercialisation the Group.
of new products The Groups results of operations may be impacted significantly Timing of payments and concentration of customers by the timeliness of its research and development and product The Group has a significant volume of sales in the MENA commercialisation activities.
In order to bring a drug to market region, where distributors are accustomed to relatively long successfully, the Group must identify products for which it can credit periods.
This is particularly the case in Algeria where generate attractive margins and growth, undertake the customarily a significant number of customers make payments required research and development and obtain regulatory with post-dated cheques.
The Groups net accounts receivable approvals.
Additional costs may be incurred and sales result in significant and variable working capital needs.
opportunities lost if there is any significant delay in any of these steps.
Given the importance of research and development, Hikma has expanded its investment in research and development, particularly in Jordan where it can benefit from lower labour and bio-equivalency costs.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 23 Financial risks Critical accounting policies and estimates The Groups accounting policies are more fully described Treasury policy in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Group finances its operations by a mixture of cash flows However, certain of the Groups accounting policies from operations, short-term borrowings from banks and longer are particularly important to the presentation of the term loans from banks.
The Group borrows principally in Groups results and require the application of significant US Dollars at both floating and fixed rates of interest, using judgement by the Groups management.
derivatives, where appropriate, to generate the desired effective currency profile and interest rate basis.
The derivatives used for In applying these policies, the Groups management uses its this purpose are principally interest rate swaps and forward judgement to determine the appropriate assumption to be foreign exchange contracts.
The main risks arising from the used in the determination of certain estimates used in the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk and foreign preparation of the Groups results.
These estimates are based currency risk.
These risks are managed by the Chief Financial on the Groups previous experience, the terms of existing Officer and overseen by the Board.
contracts, information available from other outside sources and other factors, as appropriate.
Interest rate risk The Group manages its exposures to interest rate risks by The Groups management believes that, among others, changing the proportion of fixed rate debts and variable rates the following accounting policies that involve management debts in its total debt portfolio.
To manage this mix, the Group judgements and estimates are the most critical to may enter into interest rates swap agreements, in which it understanding and evaluating the Groups financial results.
exchanges the periodic payments based on notional amounts Revenue recognition and agreed upon fixed and variable interest rates.
Using these Revenue represents sales of products to external third parties derivative financial instruments has not had a material impact and excludes inter-company income and value added taxes.
on the Groups financial position at 31 December 2005.
Sales of goods are recognised when the risk of loss and title See Note 29 to the consolidated financial statements for a are transferred to customers and reliable estimates can be description of the Groups interest rate risks.
The Groups revenue recognition Foreign exchange risk policies require management to make a number of estimates, The majority of Group sales are in US Dollars or currencies with the most significant relating to charge backs, product pegged to the US Dollar.
The Groups most significant returns and rebates and price adjustments which vary by foreign currency exposures relate to sales made in Europe, product arrangements and buying groups.
costs incurred in euro and sales to certain MENA region countries where currencies are not pegged to the US Dollar, in particular Algeria.
See Note 29 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the Groups foreign exchange risks.
Inflation risk Hikma believes it is not subject to material risk due to inflation in any of its core markets.
24 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Business and financial review continued In accordance with industry practice, the Group offers Charge backs discounts or allowances to some of its customers or The provision for charge backs is the most significant and governmental authorities in the form of rebates, charge backs, complex estimate used in the recognition of revenue.
In the price adjustments, discounts, promotional allowances or other United States, the Group sells its products directly to allowances.
Additionally, in certain countries sales may be wholesalers, generic distributors, retail pharmacy chains and made with a limited right of return under certain conditions.
The Group also sells its products Accruals for these provisions are presented in the financial indirectly to independent pharmacies, managed care statements as reductions to gross sales and accounts receivable organisations, hospitals, and group purchasing organisations, and within other current liabilities.
collectively referred to as indirect customers.
The Group enters into agreements with its indirect customers to establish Provisions for rebates, promotional and other credits pricing for certain products.
The indirect customers then are estimated based on historical payment experience, independently select a wholesaler from which they purchase estimated customer inventory levels and contract terms and the products at agreed-upon prices.
The Group will provide are made at the time of sale.
Provisions for other customer credit to the wholesaler for the difference between the credits, such as price adjustments, returns and charge backs agreed-upon price with the indirect customer and the require management to make substantive judgements.
This credit is called a charge back.
The Group has extensive internal historical information on The provision for charge backs is based on historical charge backs, rebates and customer returns and credits which sell-through levels by the Groups wholesale customers to the it uses as the primary factor in determining the related reserve indirect customers, and estimated wholesaler inventory levels.
The Group believes that this historical data, As sales are made to the large wholesalers, the Group in conjunction with periodic review of available third-party continually monitors the reserve for charge backs and makes data, updated for any applicable changes in available adjustments when it believes that actual charge backs may information provides a reliable basis for its reserve estimates.
There were no material changes in estimates associated with aggregate provisions in the years ended 31 December 2004 Returns and rebates and 2005.
The Group continually monitors the adequacy of In the United States and certain other countries the Group has procedures used to estimate these deductions from revenue a product returns policy that allows some customers to return by comparison of estimated amounts to actual experience.
product within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date, in exchange for a credit to be applied to future purchases.
The Group estimates its provisions for returns and rebates based on historical experience, changes to business practices and credit terms.
Additionally, the Group considers, amongst other things, factors such as levels of inventory in the distribution channel, product dating and expiration period, and whether products have been discontinued, and makes adjustments to the provision for returns and rebates in the event that it appears that actual product returns may differ from established reserves.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 25 Price adjustments Contingent liabilities Price adjustments, also known as shelf stock adjustments, In the normal course of business, contingent liabilities may are credits issued to reflect decreases in the selling prices arise from product-specific and general legal proceedings, of the Groups products that customers have remaining in from guarantees or from environmental liabilities connected their inventories at the time of the price reduction.
The Groups management believes that Decreases in selling prices are discretionary decisions made potential liabilities have a low probability of crystallising or are by management to reflect competitive market conditions.
very difficult to quantify reliably, and accordingly are treated Amounts recorded for estimated shelf stock adjustments are as contingent liabilities.
These are not provided for but are based upon specified terms with direct customers, estimated disclosed in the notes.
Further details of these contingent decreases in market prices and estimates of inventory held by liabilities are set out in Note 38 to the consolidated financial customers.
The Group regularly monitors these and other statements.
Although there can be no assurance regarding factors and evaluates the reserve as additional information the outcome of legal proceedings, we do not expect them becomes available.
to have a materially adverse effect on our financial position or profitability.
Research and development Our business is underpinned by our marketed products and Tax development portfolio.
The R&D expenditure on internal The Group provides for income tax according to the laws activities to generate these products is charged to the income and regulations prevailing in the countries where it operates statement in the year that it is incurred.
and the likelihood of settlement.
Furthermore, the Group computes and records deferred tax assets according to IAS 12.
Purchases of intellectual property and product rights to The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently supplement our R&D portfolio are capitalised as intangible payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on assets.
Such intangible assets are amortised from the launch taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit of the underlying products and are tested for impairment.
as reported in the income statement because it excludes items This policy is in line with practice adopted by other major of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other pharmaceutical companies.
years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or Goodwill and intangible assets deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated The Group has investments in goodwill and intangible assets using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively as a result of acquisitions of businesses and purchases of such enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable Under IFRS, goodwill is held at cost and tested annually for on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and impairment, whilst intangibles are amortised over their liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful lives are reviewed tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is annually and impairment reviews are undertaken if events accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
occur which indicate an impairment to the carrying values of Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable the assets.
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
26 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Business and financial review continued Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary The Groups inventories generally have a limited shelf life and difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition are subject to impairment as they approach their expiration other than in a business combination of other assets and dates.
The Group regularly evaluates the carrying value of its liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor inventories and when, in its opinion, factors indicate that the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised impairment has occurred, it establishes a reserve against the for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in inventories carrying value.
The Groups determination that a subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, valuation reserve might be required, in addition to the except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the quantification of such reserve, requires the Group to utilise temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary significant judgement.
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Accounts receivable and bad debt The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each The Group estimates, based on its historical experience, balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no the level of debts that it believes will not be collected.
longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available Such estimates are made when collection of the full amount to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
of the debt is no longer probable.
These estimates are based Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to on a number of factors including specific customer issues and apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is industry, economic and political conditions.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income written off when identified.
statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt Our people and society with in equity.
As a listed company quoted on the London Stock Exchange, Hikma aims to conduct its business in an ethical and socially Inventory responsible manner and to act with integrity and Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net kjs value.
We place great importance on the interests of Purchased products are valued at acquisition cost all our stakeholders including our employees, our customers, and all other costs incurred in bringing each product to its and our suppliers as well as the communities, and the present location and condition.
Costs of own-manufactured environment in which we operate while recognising that our products comprise direct materials and, where applicable, main accountability is to our shareholders.
direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location During the course of 2006 the Company established an and condition.
In the balance sheet, inventory is primarily Ethics Committee to oversee the implementation of high valued at standard cost, which approximates to historical standards of corporate governance and to monitor the cost determined on a moving average basis, and this value Groups relationships with its customers, suppliers and is used to determine the cost of sales in the income statement.
The committee will ensure that all aspects of Provisions are made for inventories with lower net realisable the Groups business in the markets in which it has operated, value or which are slow moving.
currently operates and will operate, including those which may be perceived to have less developed standards of governance, are conducted in accordance with high standards of business practice and ethical behaviour.
To the extent that the Group receives or has received enquiries regarding its operations, its policy is to co-operate fully with such requests.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 27 Employees and Health & Safety Future outlook Hikma is subject to the environmental, health and safety We believe the progress the Group has made in 2005 leaves laws in the countries where we operate and in particular us well-positioned to continue our track record of strong where we have manufacturing facilities.
We have made significant investment in both R&D activities and operations that may have adverse environmental and sales and marketing, and through our capital investment and or health and safety effects such as discharges to air and programme, we have expanded our manufacturing facilities.
water, handling, storage and disposal practices for solid and With 88 pending approvals and 90 products under hazardous wastes and general health, safety and welfare of development, our pipeline is stronger than ever.
employees and members of the public.
Hikma has made, and We expect both our Branded and Injectable Pharmaceutical will continue to make, expenditures to comply with existing businesses to deliver strong sales growth in 2006, through environmental health and safety laws and new requirements a focus on key products, the launch of new products and arising from new or amended statutes and regulations.
Gross margins in our Branded Hikma recognises that attracting, retaining and motivating business are expected to remain stable, and we see scope for skilled people is essential to its success.
We are committed improvement in gross margins in our Injectable business, to offering equal opportunities to all groups of people through higher utilisation rates and lower fixed manufacturing irrespective of background.
Our aim is to recruit the best staff expenses as a percentage of sales.
in the industry and we believe in maximising every employees We expect the pricing environment in the United States to potential.
We encourage in-house training and support staff remain competitive.
However, we will work diligently to in further advanced education and professional development minimise the effects of this pricing pressure on our Generic where appropriate.
business by introducing new products and retaining our Hikma takes its responsibility to employee health and safety strategic focus on reducing raw material costs.
very seriously and it is our policy to comply fully with regulatory We are confident that the strength and diversity of our requirements and applicable industry best practice.
business will enable us to continue to deliver strong organic The Group recognises the benefit of adopting a sustainable growth at the Group level.
Furthermore, consolidation of our development approach to its operations, and will make position in the MENA region remains a key strategic objective reasonable endeavours to operate within the broad concept and we will continue to look for opportunities to expand our of sustainable development.
The Board recognises and operations through acquisitions.
accepts that concern for the environment and all employees is an integral and fundamental part of our corporate business strategy.
It is the intention of the Board to review the social and environmental policies in place across the Group during 2006, with the aim of formalising policies that can be applied effectively across the Group.
In addition, the Board intends to identify appropriate measures to be used to monitor our performance against these policies.
