Chief executives review of the market and strategy This review OFR has been prepared The market in accordance with the Directors Report This good performance has been achieved Mitchells & Butlers has Business Review requirements of the against some difficult market conditions in delivered another strong Companies Act 1985.
It also incorporates the latter part of the financial year.
Rising much of the guidance set out in the interest rates, growing inflation pressures trading performance.
We Accounting Standards Boards Reporting and an increased tax burden have begun extended our leadership Statements on the Operating and to reduce consumer confidence Financial Review.
particularly of mid-market families with of the eating-out market, mortgages.
Industry growth this year has serving 107 million All numbers except where stated are also been limited by poor summer weather.
meals and making This has coincided with the introduction sizeable drinks market Chief Executives review of the smoking ban in England and Wales, of the market & strategy which is accelerating the key underlying share gains.
As a result of our focus on amenity, range, trends in the market: the growth in casual service and value, Mitchells & Butlers has pub users replacing frequent regulars: the delivered another strong trading increasing importance of food, soft drinks Our focus on amenity, performance with like-for-like sales growth and wine against the decline of beer and service and value has of 3% in the year.
Sales increases have machine income: the growth in pub usage been effectively converted into profits by women, families and the growing positioned us well to growth, with further improvements in retired population and the decline in deliver further outemployee productivity, purchasing gains male session drinking: and the growth and effective cost controls generating an in the importance of the off-trade and performance against the operating profit of 343m before supermarkets in particular contrasting market through the first exceptional items.
Retail net operating with the decline in the traditional on-trade margins are broadly in line with last year beer market.
year of the smoking ban despite 8m of regulatory cost increases and more challenging and, as a result of the conversion of the While the uncertain consumer Acquired Sites, 14m of closure and preenvironment, the smoking ban and market conditions.
Earnings per share before the poor summer weather have each Tim Clarke, exceptional items of 35.5p for the year contributed to a tightening of the are 21.2% ahead of last year reflecting short-term market, especially in drinks, Chief Executive the strong trading performance: the the long-term outlook for the value for contribution from the Acquired Sites: a money eating-out market continues to significant development project completed be good with on-trade food volumes up by Standard Commercial Property 3% in the year, driven by long-term Developments Limited SCPD : as well as lifestyle changes.
Our sales strategy, the the share consolidation that accompanied positioning of our brands and formats the Special Dividend earlier this year.
and the quality of our pub locations have enabled us to achieve good sales growth in the year and leave us competitively well Tim Clarke Chief Executive 6 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007 Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder and financial information review placed to make further market share gains Eating-out is increasingly the reason Over recent years, however, the market in a more challenging environment during for visiting for eating-out in pubs has broadened the year ahead.
A number of long-term The eating-out market has been growing considerably, both to more affluent factors reinforce our confidence: steadily over the past 20 years at around customers through the development 4% in real terms, reflecting both changing of gastro-pubs and to the more densely Pub usage is becoming more lifestyles and the wider provision of good populated housing estates through the popular although less regular value food offers.
Eating-out now accounts dramatic growth of local pub food.
Since 1990 the proportion of adults for approximately a third of total household The smoking ban has given this latter visiting pubs at least monthly has risen expenditure on food in the UK, but it is market significant additional momentum.
from 59% to 72%, with a marked only at levels achieved in the US over 30 For example in the period since the acceleration in the growth of less frequent years ago.
The value for money offered by introduction of the ban to the year end customers since the turn of the century.
the pub combined with its relaxed casual same outlet food sales in our Local Pubs This growth in total number of users dining atmosphere means that it has been were up 14% with additional increases in reflects the increased popularity and capturing an even greater share of this associated drinks sales.
availability of eating-out in pubs, driven by wider eating-out market.
2 social and lifestyle changes such as the Mitchells & Butlers is developing its increase in the female working population Through selective acquisitions and formats to respond to these changing and single households along with the disposals, Mitchells & Butlers has market dynamics.
In the higher affluence affluence and longevity of a growing repositioned its estate of pubs to focus on areas we have expanded our Premium retired population.
Alongside this, the large sites which afford the scale to drive Country Dining format and at the year traditional pastime of visiting the local high volumes of food at very attractive end we had 44 pubs operating under this pub several times a week solely to drink prices.
The average main meal price in format across the country.
In the more continues to decline with the proportion Mitchells & Butlers sites is around 5.60 blue collar segments our Sizzling Pub Co. of those visiting at least three times a week against a UK average of between 8 and and Pub & Carvery formats offer reducing by more than half to 8% of the 9.
This value for money positioning has exceptional value: steak and chips at 3.99 adult population.
1 helped to drive food volume growth of or a full carvery meal at 3.50 during the 67% over the last five years.
These formats have seen very high The smoking ban, which now applies to increased footfall and volume growth, with the whole of the UK, has served to The customer appeal of pub food the average Pub & Carvery site now selling reinforce this development, broadening is expanding over 2,900 meals per week.
pubs appeal to new or less frequent users Traditionally, eating-out in pubs and who are now more attracted to pubs, particularly pub restaurants has been particularly for eating-out.
Evidence from concentrated in suburban areas amongst Scotland, which is now in the second year predominantly middle income consumers.
of the smoking ban, suggests that there This segment of the market, while still are significant long-term growth growing, has slowed as a result of opportunities for pubs focused on driving consumer economic pressures especially in food sales to these less frequent users.
the light of rising mortgages bills and other cost of living increases.
This, in turn, has led to some pressure on sales for some of our mid-market brands and formats.
Source: Menurama On-trade frequency of visits Eating out as a percentage of total Fig.
2 % of adults visiting food expenditure UK vs US 50 US Monthly 1990 59 UK 2000 63 40 2007 72 30 Weekly 41 1990 20 39 2000 2007 38 10 3 times 1990 17 0 a week 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2000 12 2007 8 Notes Notes Since 1990 the proportion several times a week Eating out now accounts Source: US: US Dept of Agriculture, Economic of adults visiting pubs at solely to drink has for a third of total Research Service least monthly has risen declined.
household expenditure UK: ONS Family Spending from 59% to 72%.
Source: TNS Alcovision 2007 on food in the UK, but it Survey Alongside this, those is only at levels achieved visiting the local pub in the US 30 years ago.
Mitchells & Butlers 7 Annual report and accounts 2007 Chief executives review of the market and strategy continued Growth in food-related drinks volume In response to falling volumes, most of Lead the value for money An ever increasing proportion of drinks the on-trade has responded by consistently casual dining market sales in pubs are now associated with raising prices ahead of general inflation.
We have continued to capitalise on the ancillary purchases alongside food, rather In contrast, we have followed a policy growth in informal, value for money, than solely drinking occasions.
These of pricing restraint leading to sustained eating out with same outlet like-for-like incremental drinks sales are biased beer market share gains, for example food volumes increasing by 6% in the year towards wine and soft drinks, helping to on average a pint of standard lager in against a pub food market up 3%.
We are mitigate the impact of the poor summer a Mitchells & Butlers pub is now 2.12, now selling in total 107m meals a year.
this year which has led to a slow down 36 pence cheaper than the average Our total food sales, including the benefits in the overall market for soft drinks and in the leased and tenanted competition.
of the Acquired Sites, grew by 22% in the wine which fell 2%.
The strength of our As a result same outlet beer volumes have year.
This has been achieved through a food volume performance and our drinks grown by 6% over the past four years, constant focus on quality and value to the retailing skills has enabled us to maintain almost keeping in line with off-trade customer and we will continue to reinvest our relative out-performance in both volume, and substantially out-performing margin into our menu offers to generate these categories making substantial market the rest of the on-trade volume decline further profitable volume growth.
share gains and showing positive volume of 15%.
This has been achieved by The key to generating profitable food attracting new customers together with Although the market is yet to experience growth is responding to customers the value for money, range and quality a winter, the English smoking ban high sensitivity to perceptions of value.
is already accelerating the shift from This is reflected in both high consumer on-trade to off-trade.
In the first four price elasticities and rising menu Continued decline in on-trade beer months following the English ban, which quality expectations.
The same social and demographic was introduced on 1 July 2007, the changes which are fuelling the growth on-trade has seen beer volumes decline Our business model is focused on in pub food are contributing to the by over 6%, while the off-trade has seen attracting incremental food volumes continued decline in the on-trade beer volumes grow by nearly 7%.
which in turn generates high margin market with volumes down 5% in the year.
With low additional This has also been driven by the scale of Mitchells & Butlers strategy for growth employment costs, the gross profit the retail beer price increases taken by the The results achieved this year reflect our generated has a high drop through on-trade in general and by the widening leadership position in the growing eatingto operating margin.
price gap between the on-trade and the out market and further significant drinks supermarkets.
This has been particularly market share gains.
Our average weekly As a result of this trading strategy, across evident with significant supermarket sales per pub are up 6% to 18.5k and the estate as a whole, average weekly discounting of beer around major holidays operating profit has increased by 11% food sales rose by 12%, while the average such as Christmas and important sporting to 343m.
We have generated this number of meals served grew by 15% as events such as the football and rugby performance through the successful the mix moved strongly towards the value World Cups.
implementation of our sales strategy, segment.
Thus, although like-for-like food which is to: prices rose 1.6%, the average retail price of food served fell by 0.8% due to the shift in mix.
3 On-trade vs off-trade 1.10 Off-trade volume MAB volume On-trade volume 1.05 1.00 0.95 0.90 0.85 0.80 Sept 03 Sept 04 Sept 05 Sept 06 Sept 07 Notes MAB same outlet beer outperforming the rest volumes have grown of the on-trade volume by 6% over the past decline of 15%.
four years, almost in Source: BBPA MAB same outlet volumes line with off-trade to October 2007 volume and substantially Excludes MAB volume 8 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007 Volume Index Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder and financial information review We believe that the smoking ban, now Sizzling Pub Co. implemented across the UK, will further strengthen the growth prospects for food sales in our pubs, by being able to attract new customers previously deterred by Fundamental to the market out-performance tobacco smoke.
Since the smoking ban of SPC is the formats was implemented in England, same outlet ability to attract an like-for-like food sales are up 5%.
increasing number of customers into its pubs through its great value Generate significant food offer, to make drinks market share gains incremental, full-price drinks sales to these Our same outlet like-for-like drinks sales customers.
Thus its increased by 2.2% in the period.
Sales current offer of two main volumes, a crucial measure of underlying meals for 6 from 2.30pm to 6.00pm Monday customer usage, once again strongly outto Friday has seen the performed the market across all the key number of meals sold categories of beer, cider, wines, spirits in this time-slot grow to 16,000 per week over the and soft drinks.
Crucially, our same outlet last two years.
beer and cider volumes were maintained against the background of a 4% decline in the on-trade market for these products in the year as a whole.
We are out-performing in the beer category through widening the product range that we offer, improving the serve quality through intensive cellar training and investment in cooling systems, as well as delivering better presentation through attractive glassware.
Value is also playing a key part in our strong drinks market share gains, with a wide gap opening between our pricing and general on-trade pricing, thereby protecting our volumes from the supermarket discounting.
As a result, the average retail price of standard lager is now 36 pence per pint less in our pubs Pub & Carvery than the average in leased pubs.
This is despite our average retail drinks prices rising by 3.4%, partly due to like-for-like price increases, but also due to trading As the rise in frequent, up to new, premium products.
This casual eating-out among value-focused consumers increase is less than the price rises across has continued apace, the on-trade as a whole.
As a result Mitchells & Butlers has of these product initiatives and pricing successfully evolved new formats to tap into this policies, on a longer-term perspective, fast-growing area of the we have grown our same outlet beer market.
One such format volumes by 6% over the past four years, is Pub & Carvery, trialled over two years ago, and against a 15% decline in the rest of the now trading in 58 sites on-trade.
Serving an average of over 2,900 meals a week, the highest We have been following a similar strategy we believe of any format in wine, soft drinks and coffee which are in the industry, the brand key attractions to new users of pubs.
provides a traditional, relaxed pub environment We have been extending our ranges with with a freshly-cooked new premium products, offering good carvery offer priced value own label products and enhancing from an incredible 3.50.
For our guests, this the serve quality.
Wine sales volumes grew represents better value last year by 3% with draught dispense now than eating at home.
In soft drinks, we have The brand has average weekly sales of almost been successfully extending the range of 30k per pub and is fresh juices, cordials and mineral waters.
providing very high We have also installed new branded coffee incremental returns on investment.
offers in around 1,200 pubs, with an uplift in sales volumes of 23%.
Mitchells & Butlers 9 Annual report and accounts 2007 Chief executives review of the market and strategy continued Develop and evolve an industry-leading On purchasing, the Cost of Goods In addition, we opened six new sites, and portfolio of formats to drive sales growth index increases have seen cost rises held carried out 65 conversions and 13 growth Our emphasis on innovation to develop to under 1%, significantly below inflation, projects to change the customer offer or our brands and formats to keep pace while 7m per annum of purchasing increase the trading area of the site in the with fast changing consumer expectations synergies from the Acquired Sites were core estate.
Overall, we are generating a is focused on ensuring that we continually delivered this year, ahead of our forecasts pre-tax incremental return of 20% on our attract new customers and generate at the time of acquisition.
expansionary investment over the last two higher levels of visits.
We have developed years in the core estate.
an industry leading portfolio of brands We also continue to drive process and formats targeted at the growth efficiencies in the infrastructure to leverage As a result of this strategy, and in the light segments of the market.
Average weekly our scale economies.
For example, the of the general levels of investment in the sales per pub are well over three times extra overhead required to service some on-trade market as a whole, the amenity the industry average.
200m of sales from the Acquired Sites gap between our pubs and the majority will have been held to 2m per annum.
of pubs in the UK is widening, further For instance, during the course of the year These factors have enabled us to maintain improving our overall customer value we have further developed our category high net operating margins of 17.9% proposition and our market share gains killer, value food formats, Sizzling Pub Co. broadly in line with last year, despite 8m relative to the rest of the on-trade.
Pub & Carvery and our new Community of regulatory cost increases and 14m of Locals format Cornerstone.
We continue to make targeted disposals, where the value to third parties is higher These each offer outstanding food value, Over the next 12 months we have than the trading value to us.
During the with main meals priced between 3.50 instigated a material rationalisation year we generated 162m of disposal and 4.50, in an attractive, high amenity of the organisation, with approximately proceeds, including the sale of 102 pubs pub environment.
Pub & Carvery is now 7m of annualised cost efficiencies to Trust Inns Ltd in October 2006, taking generating an average of over 2,900 meals targeted to be delivered in FY 2009. advantage of the buoyancy in the property per pub per week, the highest, we believe, market to crystallise the value of smaller of any format in the industry.
We have also Extend the skill base of operational pubs, which had limited food growth evolved our long established High Street excellence throughout the estate potential.
formats of ONeills and Scream, with The skills and experience of our operating strong performances resulting.
Similarly teams provide a critical competitive Grow profits and capture asset the development of our London offers of advantage for us in delivering high appreciation to benefit shareholders Nicholsons and Metro Professionals has standards of customer service efficiently Pubs are valued as specific use assets, generated exceptional double digit food and profitably.
We have continued to primarily on the basis of their profitability sales growth.
build our staff training programmes and and our strong operating performance has industry leading practices in the areas helped to generate further capital Deliver a profitable, integrated of: capacity management at peak times: appreciation within our estate.
This has food and drinks offer kitchen processes and organisation: bar been reflected in the 1.1bn upward Whilst eating out is increasingly the reason and floor service productivity: staff revaluation of the estate to 5.0bn that has that customers visit a Mitchells & Butlers product knowledge and our responsiveness been carried out in conjunction with our pub, combining higher growth, lower to direct measures of feedback on guest property valuers, Colliers CRE.
margin food sales with higher margin satisfaction.
This focus on operational drinks sales is key to maximising excellence is central to the high average Our focus remains on releasing to overall profitability.
Our aim is to add levels of sales and profitability generated shareholders the benefits of this capital incremental food sales which can be by our pubs.
At the start of the year, in delivered at low marginal cost with an October 2006, we returned 486m to attractive drop-through to profit.
Proactively manage the shareholders by means of a Special estate to maximise value Dividend of 1 per share, crystallising for Extract volume driven efficiencies Our strategy is to maximise the shareholders the continuing growth in the Our rising volumes are critical in profitability and value of each pub by value of the estate.
applying the breadth of our trading This year we have seen a further strong formats as is most appropriate to the local rate of increase in staff productivity, market and demographics.
During the with a 3.9% increase in staff contribution year we have been adding value through per hour in the core estate.
This reflects this strategy to both the Acquired Sites the impact of our training programmes, and the existing estate.
The Acquired Sites our focus on the optimum deployment conversion programme remains on track of staff and ever more refined techniques with 172 pubs now converted to our for forecasting and scheduling.
We have moved at a rapid pace have enabled us to realise significant with the integration programme to turn productivity gains and maintain our pub around their previous under-performance employment cost ratio below 24% of sales and provide a platform for future growth.
excluding the Acquired Sites, despite a Average weekly sales uplifts on the further increase of 6% in the National converted sites are running at Minimum Wage in October 2006. approximately 20% above the levels at which the pubs were acquired.
We remain confident in delivering the year three target of 30% sales uplifts in the 2009 financial year.
10 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007 Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder and financial information review It has also been clear that property Cask ale training investors are attracted to the long-term, secure growth prospects that can be created through the rentalising of part of our operational cash flows in a dedicated The quality of our cellar skills has been property structure.
Whether in a joint instrumental in our venture, a REIT or another separate sustained gains in beer property structure, fundamentally market share.
With the increase in demand for higher values appear to be placed on cask ales, Ember Inns the estate than when it is combined in has invested this year in an integrated model with the operations.
specific training on the management and serve of cask ale, to ensure We believe that substantial value can customers enjoy the be potentially captured from our high finest quality pint possible.
Most Ember quality, freehold and long leasehold Inns are now certified assets, through such structures.
A key by Cask Marque, an consideration in such a process is to independent accreditation scheme to recognise construct a lease arrangement which excellence in the service ensures that both the property and the of cask ale, and each operations remain mutually incentivised pub has a beer quality champion, trained by to continue to create long-term value.
The Board will continue to investigate actively the options for capturing the value of the property estate for shareholders on a sustainable basis.
Acquired Sites In July last year, we acquired 239 of the best pub restaurant sites in the UK.
These freehold pubs were well located, large, predominantly residential and freehold or long leasehold, and approximately half situated in the higher growth regions of the South East and South West of England.
They were therefore an excellent strategic fit with the Companys existing estate.
Our key capital investment priority this year has been the rapid and successful conversion of these sites and a total of 80m has been invested to this end.
Mitchells & Butlers 11 Annual report and accounts 2007
