MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 8 chiefexecutives statement The last year has been an important one for MITIE.
It has been a year of great achievement with the highlights being the successful integration of our enlarged Security and Landscaping businesses, the development of our Board and the continued organic growth of our three divisions Facilities Services formerly Support Services, Property Services and Engineering Services.
We have changed the name of Support Services to Facilities Services because this more accurately reects the range of services that we provide to our clients.
From a personal perspective, I am pleased to present the results of our activities to you in my new role as Chief Executive of MITIE.
I believe that MITIE has the ability to take full advantage of the opportunities that its markets offer and I feel privileged to be leading the business at this exciting time in its development.
In 2007, we achieved growth in revenue of 31.3%, 17.4% of which was organic.
Organic growth is an important measure for us as it reects the success of both new and traditional services in our expanding client base.
We are pleased to report the achievement of double digit organic revenue growth across all three of our divisions in 2007 a reection of the strength of our business offering.
I feel privileged to be leading the business at this exciting time in its development.
8 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 9 Our ability to introduce growth through acquisition is of increasing importance.
This year we have We are pleased to have successfully managed the integration of the continued our 20-year Landscaping and Security acquisitions made last year and the delivery of the track record of planned synergy benets.
These activities have produced a Landscaping business revenue, dividend with a national capability and a Security business that is the second largest and earnings growth.
manned guarding business in the UK.
We continue to seek acquisitions that augment our service delivery capabilities and were pleased to announce the acquisition of Robert Prettie in April 2007 to enhance Our future success will be built upon the our Property Services business.
delivery of a clear strategy and vision.
It will be underpinned by the continuation and Order book development of our unique equity ethos, which will be measured by a challenging The success of our bidding activity and set of key performance indicators.
the strength of our business is reected in our order book, which now stands at I am excited about the future for MITIE.
4.1bn, and we start the year to March It is an immense pleasure to work with 2008 with some 75% 2006: 72% of our such a dedicated and aspirational team.
No day at MITIE is the same and our Our order book reects some impressive common goals of growth, providing contract wins including those at HBOS, responsive services to our clients and Marks & Spencer and Birmingham City developing our people drive us all.
MITIE has delivered another year of strong growth in revenue, profits and dividends.
Our people We continue to focus on our growth I recognise that the success of MITIE is strategy by increasing market share whilst a reection of the success of our people maintaining margins.
We believe in getting and I would like to thank all of our the basics right delivering excellent employees for their contribution to this service to our customers and maintaining years impressive results and for providing our reputation for quality.
We have a great continued exible support to our clients.
business, a motivated, entrepreneurial At MITIE our people have a broad range team and excellent prospects for further of talents and backgrounds and we are sustainable growth.
committed to supporting a culture that continues to give opportunity to our Ruby McGregor-Smith people and that encourages inclusion Chief Executive and diversity in our business.
Looking forward MITIEs equity-based business model has delivered a consistent track record of revenue and earnings growth over the 20 years since the Groups formation.
MITIE employed 44,866 people at 31 March 2007 and is now responsive to a broad stakeholder base.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9
