 David Hathorn Our ability to deliver value for shareholders is driven by our low cost asset base, our strong market positions and our commitment to operational excellence.
Strongmaiden Results Mondisstrategic results:substantial advantage In the half-year report last August profitimprovement we announced a strong first set of Mondi has a clear mission: to be results, despite continued pressure the best performing paper and It is a unique pleasure to from trade flows on the back of the packaging group in the world.
be reporting Mondis first weakness of the US dollar and high Our strategy to achieve this is results as an independent input costs, with a substantial simple and has four key drivers: Group.
Independence brings recovery in operating profit.
I am with it many changes, new  pleased to say that this recovery responsibilities and new continued into the second half, We are building on our leading challenges, but what remains reflecting the generally positive market positions in packaging unchanged is our absolute trends in our key business segments.
and uncoated fine paper UFP, belief that low cost operations particularly in emerging markets in high growth markets are Mondi recorded substantial which offer sustained aboveprimary drivers of our success improvements in sales, up 9%, average growth potential.
to date and major requirements underlying operating profit, up 33%, for our continued progress and cash inflow from operations, up Highquality, in the future.
Underlying operating profit of lowcostassetbase 502 million was up 125 million and We aim to be the lowest cost Our ability to achieve value for our reflected better performances across producer in our industry, by shareholders is driven by our focus all main business areas as increased selectively investing in production on performance and in particular pricing, focus on operational capacity in lower cost regions our significant exposure to emerging efficiency and the benefits of and by exploiting the benefits markets, which enables us to deliver restructuring actions and 167 of upstream integration including above average growth from a low million cost savings all contributed forestry across our operations.
Our low cost to the financial outcome.
I am As of 31 December 2007, 65% of position is supported by our high particularly pleased that average Mondis asset base was located in level of vertical integration, being return on capital employed, a key emerging markets.
self sufficient in wood, our primary measure of performance for Mondi, raw material, in two of the lowest Focusonperformance increased from 8.1% to 10.6%, cost timber regions of the world.
which reflects both improved Continuous productivity profitability and tighter management improvement and cost reduction of our capital employed.
While this are institutionalised disciplines at improvement is clearly a step in the Mondi, delivered through a range of right direction, current returns business excellence programmes remain unsatisfactory and and rigorous asset management.
significant additional cost reductions Growth and further productivity improveWe will continue to target valuements will be targeted.
Furthermore, enhancing growth through a we remain very focused on supplycombination of organic expansion side discipline as an important and acquisitions.
component of ensuring ongoing price stability and improvement.
For a more detailed review of Group performance see pages 20 to 25.
Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup  Mondi is the European market many product segments in which Group Netoperating leader in sales of industrial Mondi is number one or two in its revenue assets bags for a range of specialist chosen markets.
In 2007 Mondi kraft paper, kraftliner corrugated 54% 35% produced approximately packaging and uncoated fine Mature markets Mature markets 3.6 billion industrial paper bags.
Some 46% of Mondis The Group supplies more than products are sold to the fast- 10 million industrial bags to its growing markets of emerging 46% 65% global customers every single Europe, Russia and South Africa.
Emerging markets Emerging markets day.
Bag converting is just one of Quality control in the bag converting plant at wieciein Poland.
 continued Leadingmarket Highquality, positions lowcostassetbase We have a particularly strong The key to delivering abovepresence in western and emerging average returns is to operate Europe, Russia and South Africa low cost assets.
In our business, where we occupy the number one that means concentrating our or two market positions in almost production in lower-cost regions, all our chosen packaging and UFP where our principal input costs, product segments.
wood, energy and personnel, are inherently lower.
Accordingly, We continue to concentrate our between 2004 and 2007 we activities and resources in the incurred capital expenditure of emerging markets of Europe, approximately 1.4 billion in the low Russia and South Africa.
In 2007 cost emerging markets of Europe, these markets accounted for Russia and South Africa.
In 2007, approximately 46% of the Groups 65% of our operating assets were sales and our objective is to deployed in these markets.
This strategy has given us significant The reason for this emphasis upstream cost advantages.
For on emerging markets is simple: example, 100% of our unbleached they offer appreciably higher and white-top kraftliner capacity rates of growth than the more and following the closure of the mature markets of western Hungarian mill referred to below Europe, as can be seen in the 100% of our universal UFP capacity tables below.
are in the lowest cost quartile delivered to their respective Uncoatedfinepaper 3 geographic markets.
1 20062011 demand growth Our primary raw material is, of Western Europe course, wood.
We own or lease forests in Russia and South Africa, 1.3% meeting more than half the Groups Eastern Europe Stocks of total pulp-production needs and mother reel in Mondis fullymaking us fully self-sufficient in 6.6% automated two of the worlds lowest-cost warehouse at Hausmening Corrugated fibre-producing regions.
2 20052010 demand growth is also close to potential selfsufficiency in pulp: following Western Europe the closure of the unintegrated Hungarian paper operations, our 1.
% total adjusted self-sufficiency in Eastern Europe 2007 would have been around 96%.. 2% This high level of vertical integration in the value chain gives us security 1 Source: EMGE Woodfree Forecast of supply and greatly reduces our Report October 2007 for eastern and western Europe.
exposure to price volatility in our key 2 Source: ICCA.
In addition, we are 82% self-sufficient in energy in our major mills.
3 Source: Pyry Industry Forestry Consulting, Mondi.
12 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007 The development of Mondis production capacity in emerging markets continues.
Where sites do not meet our strict The total estimated pre tax Merebank and Richards Bay, and Focuson performance criteria they are restructuring charge for this closure is headed by Ron Traill, formerly performance closed or divested.
For example, and related actions is estimated managing director of the tti mill We are fortunate to have an outin the past six years we have closed at 88 million of which 57 million in the Czech Republic.
standing and highly experienced two testliner mills in the UK and is an impairment and 31 million Gnther Hassler, the former chief management team at Mondi.
It is Switzerland, reducing our capacity is a cash cost.
This will be booked executive officer of Mondi Business a team which not only has a fine by 11%.
A further 11% of corrugated as a special item in the income Paper, decided to leave Mondi track record in managing complex packaging capacity has been taken statement 57 million in the 2007 towards the end of 2007 to pursue international businesses, but has out since 2004.
In all, we have accounts and the balance in 2008. other opportunities.
On behalf of also demonstrated its ability over closed four paper machines and The costs of ongoing rationalisation the Boards and senior management many years to acquire and integrate 35 packaging converting plants and of divisional overheads and mill I would like to thank Gnther for the new value-adding businesses.
disposed of a further 30 converting headcount reduction will be contribution he has made to Mondi plants since 2001.
These actions It is in the very nature of our charged to underlying operating during his 20 years with the Group.
not only contribute to an industry that success depends profits as a restructuring charge improvement in Mondis overall The reporting lines for Mondi upon remaining competitive at all as and when incurred, as part of cost base and asset quality but Packaging South Africa, Mondi stages of the cycle.
Operational Mondis normal process of have also contributed to supplyShanduka Newsprint, Aylesford excellence is a prerequisite: we continuous cost reduction.
side reductions, leading to an Newsprint in the UK and Europapier must constantly strive to improve improved supply demand balance This ongoing focus on performance remain unchanged.
our productivity, which essentially in our respective grades, with requires a periodic review of our means improving machine efficiency Following the reorganisation we resultant margin improvements.
Soon and output per employee.
Put have made good progress in after the demerger we therefore simply, our unremitting challenge In view of the current uncoated simplifying our processes, took the opportunity to conduct is to produce more with less.
fine paper UFP market dynamics, eliminating duplication and reducing such a review, with the aim of which have seen sustained high overheads, and we expect to see I believe that one of our key further eliminating duplication, pulp prices and a weak US dollar the benefits beginning to flow differentiators is our rigorous simplifying our processes and with resultant trade flows impacting through in the current year.
control of costs at all levels of the aligning our business model European operating rates, we have business.
Over the past three years across the Mondi Group.
From decided to decrease Mondis we have delivered cumulative cost 1 January 2008, in place of the European UFP operating capacity reductions of approximately 10% former Mondi Packaging and and further reduce costs by of total cash costs.
In 2007 alone, Mondi Business Paper business simplifying our European UFP we achieved cost reductions units, we now operate as two operations, principally through of 3.1% or 167 million and this divisions: Europe & International cutting divisional overheads and process continues through a and South Africa.
As a series of ongoing cost-reduction result, it is planned, during the The Europe & International division programmes and profit improvesecond quarter of 2008, to shut comprises our packaging and UFP ment initiatives.
down the paper machine at Mondis activities outside South Africa and is A key to cost saving is productivity, unintegrated mill at Szolnok in headed by Peter Oswald, formerly which has improved substantially.
This mill has a capacity chief executive officer of Mondi For example, over the last 10 years of 140,000 tonnes, employs Packaging, who joined the boards the Groups bag converting approximately 275 people, and of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc operations have delivered an 8% made an operating loss in 2007. at the beginning of 2008.
The compound annual growth in units This closure is subject to South Africa division comprises per employee.
More specifically, negotiations with employee our existing South African forestry in Poland our wiecie paper mill has representatives.
operation and the plants at increased output per employee by 24% compound per annum over the last ten years.
In Russia, our Syktyvkar paper mill has lifted productivity by 13% compound per annum since 2002.
Furthermore, in Slovakia, since the beginning of the decade, our Ruomberok paper mill has increased productivity by 20% compound per annum.
Chief executives review Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 13 A logging operation at Mondis forest near Syktyvkar in Russia.
Highquality, lowcostassets Mondis main raw material for Averagehardwoodand 3 its paper-based products is softwoodcosts m, Q2 2007 wood fibre and the Group is selfsufficient in two of the lowest-cost Brazil 25 fibre regions in the world, thanks to its extensive owned or leased forests in Russia and South Africa.
Chile 30 With 65% of its operating Australia 30 assets deployed in low cost Poland 33 emerging markets, Mondi also enjoys significant upstream Portugal 3 cost advantages.
For example, Sweden 3 the Groups entire production capacity in three of its major Finland 42 products kraftliner, white-top France 4 kraftliner and universal uncoated Source: Pyry Industry Forestry Consulting.
fine paper is in the industrys lowest cost quartile.
 continued In addition, a new recovery boiler Growth One of three will be installed, substantially papermaking machines at Mondis Mondi is committed to generating increasing our energy supply with Syktyvkar mill.
value enhancing growth, both surplus energy being sold to the organically and through acquisition, grid.
The resultant increased pulp primarily by expanding its asset and production will enable us to increase sales base in emerging markets.
We paper output on a fully integrated continue to investigate opportunities basis, with both the paper and to extend our position in low cost containerboard machines being locations for pulp and paper rebuilt.
This investment will enable production, whilst divesting nonMondi to benefit from the strong core assets and further rationalising growth in demand for containerour plant network.
In deciding upon board and UFP in Russia, as well capital allocation, we focus on our as substantially reducing our ability to secure a sustained low production costs.
cost position, thus ensuring that In addition to organic investment, we deliver a return in excess of the acquisition of assets in growing our cost of capital over the cycle.
markets with the potential for In Poland, we are investing improved returns is central to our 350 million in a new lightweight Syktyvkar, Russia strategy.
Over the last seven years recycled containerboard machine we have acquired and integrated Mondis 525 million investment and new box plant at our wiecie numerous businesses, improving in its low cost Syktyvkar mill in mill.
Annual demand growth for their efficiency, leveraging synergies Russia will reduce costs, increase converted packaging in central and with our existing operations, energy output and boost annual eastern Europe is estimated to be transferring know-how from pulp production capacity by running at around 8% and there is elsewhere in the Group and 190,000 tonnes, UFP capacity by a substantial deficit in lightweight improving the product mix.
52,000 tonnes and containerboard containerboard supply which we capacity by 46,000 tonnes, with a Our most recent major acquisition aim to fill.
has been in the key market of Construction will begin in the In Russia, we are investing Turkey, where we have completed spring of 2008 and the project will 525 million in modernising and the purchase of a majority stake in be completed by mid to late 2010. expanding our low cost mill at Tire Kutsan, the countrys leading Syktyvkar.
This mill has already corrugated packaging company.
proven to be a great success, This expands our European earning in excess of Mondis cost of footprint and, coupled with our capital.
The wood-handling facilities existing presence, gives us will be modernised and expanded immediate market leadership in and the fibre lines will be upgraded.
corrugated packaging in emerging On completion, it is estimated that Europe, including Turkey.
the two chipping lines and debarking I am confident that this combination units will be the largest in the world of controlled growth and a rigorous by capacity.
attention to business excellence will enable us to meet our key financial objective for the Group of a 13% return on capital employed across the cycle.
16 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007 Outlook 1 We believe that Mondis leading 2 positions in the emerging markets Turkey provide both cost and growth 3 5 4 6 advantages.
Furthermore, our focused strategy, obsession with Paper mill driving down costs and willingCorrugated plant Sheet plant ness to react quickly to market conditions leave us very well placed 1 Trakya Corlu 4 Tire 2 Izmit 5 Karaman to respond to changing economic 3 Manisa 6 Adana circumstances.
Therefore, despite the uncertainty surrounding the TireKutsan, Turkey prospects for the global economy, The acquisition of a majority we are confident of building on our interest in Tire Kutsan in Turkey 2007 results and making further will enable Mondi to take full progress in 2008. advantage of one of the fastestDavid Hathorn growing packaging markets in Europe expected to grow by 12% annually over the five years to 2010.
Its sheet mill in western Turkey produces annually 120,000 tonnes of recycled containerboard and five corrugated box plants around the country have an annual production capacity of around 450 2 million m. Tire Kutsan provides Mondi with a springboard for further expansion in Turkey.
The wood-handling yard at Mondis wiecie mill.
wiecie, Poland It will produce 470,000 tonnes of containerboard annually and Mondis new 350 million light- 2 250 million m of corrugated weight recycled containerboard board.
The main machinery is machine, to be built on a already on order and production brownfield site at the Groups is expected to begin in mid to wiecie mill in northern Poland, late 2009. will be the lowest-cost producer of containerboard in Europe.
Chief executives review Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 1 The automated production line for uncoated fine paper at Ruomberok in Slovakia.
Focusonperformance Over the last three years Mondi annum over the last ten years.
Closures divestitures has delivered cumulative costWhere sites do not meet strict closures divestitures reductions of around 10% of performance criteria they are 2002 cash costs, through rigorous closed or divested.
Over the last control of operating expenditure, six years, four Mondi paper mills 2003 55 improved productivity and a and 32 packaging converting 2004 disciplined programme of plant plants have been closed and rationalisation.
For example, 30 converting plants have 2005 10 in the Groups key production been divested.
This has not 2006 10 regions of Russia, Poland and only reduced costs, but has also Slovakia, productivity at its plants cut capacity, thereby improving 200 5 5 has been boosted by between the demand supply balance.
of which three will be completed in 2008 13% and 24% compound per
