com Annual Report 2007 Our Business 07 Chief Executives Report I am pleased to present my first Chief Executives Report for what has been a very successful year for the Group.
We have continued to grow the business substantially whilst investing signicantly for the future.
I am pleased to present my first Chief The Travel vertical increased its Executives Report for what has been a revenues by 100.9% to 15.0m.
very successful year for the Group.
com brand is have continued to grow the business recognised in its own right and is the substantially whilst investing signicantly clear market leader in its eld.
This has all taken place made the product more comprehensive, in a year when we oated the Group on adding additional channels which enable the London Stock Exchange in the very the business to cater for more of our challenging and volatile markets of July consumers requirements.
The Group entered the FTSE 250 in has been increased allowing the September 2007. consumer to compare more providers.
This improves the consumer experience and Group revenues grew by 55.9% in 2007 to engenders trust in the Group.
Internet revenues increased by we believe these factors will make 63.7% to 152.2m and adjusted EBITDA by Travelsupermarket.
com the preferred and 57.2% to 52.9m.
All areas of the internet most trusted travel website in the UK.
business performed well whilst the intermediary business was broadly stable Home Services revenues have increased by in 2007.
The focus this year has been on growing market share in a vertical Despite the well documented turbulence where there were already established in credit markets in 2007, the Money competitor businesses.
We have been vertical traded successfully throughout successful in the application of this the year.
Revenues grew by 48.7% and we strategy.
We have leveraged our already believe this demonstrates the value that substantial user base, the strength of our business delivers to both consumers our brand and our sales and marketing and providers.
We believe providers expertise to take market share from the reduced advertising spend on other incumbents.
Home Services continues to media whilst maintaining their commercial show rapid growth, albeit from a small relationships with the Group because it base, but also benets the business by offers targeted and focused advertising widening the Groups offering to the spend and generates a greater return consumer.
This gives the consumer even on investment than many other forms more reasons to return to our website.
We launched our business in Germany In the Insurance vertical, revenues grew by www.
We maintained a offering home and motor insurance strong market position in a sector which partnering with a third party who provided continues to show rapid growth through the technology.
We had some success in greater consumer awareness and 2007 but are working hard now to improve increasing use of online aggregators.
and focus our offering to the consumer in We have the most complete insurance 2008.
We will not commit significant comparison engine in the UK offering the investment to promoting the service until consumer the widest choice of providers.
we are satisfied with progress in this area.
We have a very strong brand with 73% of online consumers recognising the I believe the Group has achieved a Moneysupermarket.
This gives great deal in 2007 and its success is the Group a strong competitive advantage largely down to the dedication of our and a powerful base from which to defend employees.
I would like to thank them and grow its position as the UKs leading for their continuing efforts.
08 Annual Report 2007 Our Business www.
com Chief Executives Report continued As the UKs leading price comparison website, the Group is very well placed to respond to a continuing structural shift in consumers and advertisers behaviour.
Strategic context different retailers at the click of a mouse.
As the UKs leading price comparison It is not good enough to be the best and website, the Group is very well placed to most trusted in 70% of the things you respond to a continuing structural shift in do because ultimately the remaining consumers and advertisers behaviour.
30% of the business will suffer.
Product Increasing broadband penetration in the is therefore key to our success.
This is UK has dramatically improved the online encapsulated through two of our key experience.
It is always on and gives operating values: much faster access than a dial-up connection.
As a result, consumers are To build services that we would feel spending ever increasing amounts of time proud to recommend to close family online.
The consumption of internet media and friends.
now accounts for more than one quarter of To endeavour to offer our consumers all media consumption in the UK.
As the widest selection of products consumers online time increases so their enabling them to compare and buy confidence and familiarity with transacting online in all of the major sectors over the internet improves.
Content is therefore are increasingly recognising this in their paramount.
consumer acquisition strategies and are allocating ever increasing amounts of their These values sit at the heart of all of the advertising budgets from traditional ofine products and services we develop.
We believe the Group provides the largest and most Product development introduces more effective price comparison marketplace relevant consumers to more relevant in the UK, matching relevant and readyproduct providers and improves both to-transact consumers with providers.
consumer satisfaction and provider conversion.
By constantly improving our Our strategy, which aims to capitalise service to both of these key stakeholders, on this structural shift, is built upon two the Group will continue to prosper and primary objectives: maintain its position as the UKs leading price comparison website.
To continue to innovate with a constant focus on improving our existing In 2007 we introduced a number of key products and improving the consumer developments in this area.
To improve the volumes and mix of We extended the question set within trafc to the Groups website by our motor insurance channel to enable increasing brand awareness of consumers to obtain a more tailored Moneysupermarket.
quote for their particular circumstances.
The response has been good and we Innovation and product development have seen an increase in conversion It is imperative we maintain our leading rates recorded by providers.
This has edge in product development.
The generated increased revenues per visitor internet is unique in that it offers in the motor insurance channel since the consumers the ability to move between new question set was introduced.
com Annual Report 2007 Our Business 09 In July 2007 we introduced Our gross margins increased from MyMoneysupermarket.
This enables 61.1% to 66.7% as the Group earned consumers to enter their details once a greater proportion of its revenues within our safe and secure systems: from consumers who came directly these details can then be used to to the website rather than from prepopulate application forms which search engine marketing or portal can save the consumer time and effort partners where there is a direct at the time of renewal.
It also, through cost of consumer acquisition.
the log in feature, enables us to get a better understanding of our consumers We need to retain our position in the and tailor our products and services to front of consumers minds as a trusted their individual needs.
consumer champion and to become their We have added more user and fide facto choice when considering professional reviews and signicantly their financial, insurance, travel and grown our forums feature.
We now have home services requirements.
more than 24,000 registered users and many times more viewers of our forums Current trading and outlook who interact with each other to discuss We have made a strong start to the current topics of interest and concern to them financial year.
The Money vertical has which increases consumers afnity with enjoyed double digit growth year to date, the website.
with broadly at performance in loans and mortgages in a declining market offset by We believe that these developments in very strong growth in credit card and particular contributed signicantly to savings products.
The other verticals, increasing the revenue per visitor across Insurance, Travel and Home Services, have our business during 2007. maintained the momentum experienced in the second half of 2007.
In line with our Brand awareness business plan, we anticipate a step up in Marketing and PR drive new consumers to costs in the first half of 2008 associated our website.
We began ofine initiatives a with our continued investment in the number of years ago with the supply of business and development of our German best buy tables to the personal finance subsidiary.
We remain very confident in our sections of national newspapers.
This diverse business model and the benefit it continues and today we supply the best brings to consumers and providers.
buy tables for seven newspapers including the Telegraph, Times and Independent.
Given current trading and the ongoing More recently, in 2006, we extended our investment programme, we are confident ofine initiatives into television and radio that we can have another successful year.
advertising which have stepped up considerably in 2007.
The success of this is reected in two key areas: Our online brand recognition increased Simon Nixon from 40% in July 2006 to 73% in Chief Executive officer November 2007 according to a YouGov survey commissioned for the Group.
