CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW OUR VISION FOR MORGAN CRUCIBLE IS FOR YOUR COMPANY TO BE ONE OF THE WORLDS VERY BEST ADVANCED MATERIALS COMPANIES.
14 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW I am pleased to report that Morgan a revenue increase of 7.4% at business in March 2007.
As you will see Crucible has continued to make 324.0 million 2006: 301.7 million.
from the strong Insulating Ceramics good progress in 2007 on our strategic On a constant currency basis, results that we have reported, of which objectives and in our financial year-on-year revenue growth was 10.6%.
Thermal Ceramics is a significant part, performance.
Our revenues have Operating profits before one-off items Tim has had a highly successful first increased by 6.3% on a constant grew by 31.2% to 36.6 million 2006: year in his new role.
currency basis and our operating profit 27.9 million with operating profit The Chairman has also mentioned in margins before one-off items to 12.5% margins before one-off items increasing his summary the change in leadership from 10.9% in 2006.
All regions in our Carbon Division.
I would like to add Morgan Crucible achieved year-on-year performed well but it was especially my personal thanks to Mark Lejman for growth in profits before tax of 47.8% pleasing to see strong growth in Europe, his efforts and commitment in leading compared to 2006. driven by large project orders from the Carbon Division since March 2004. regional customers for delivery to the Highlights of 2007 Mark has been succeeded by Don Klas, Middle East and Asian markets, who previously was head of the Carbon All of our Divisions delivered improvements particularly for aluminium, petrochemical Americas Division which accounts on their operating profits before one-off and iron & steel projects.
As we said in for well over half of the Divisions profits.
our trading update in December, 2007 items and profit margins in 2007.
Don has over twenty seven years was characterised by a number of The Carbon Division increased its experience in the Carbon Division and large one-off project orders.
As a result, I am sure that he will make a significant revenues by 1.4% compared to 2006 we would expect the level of revenue at 216.6 million 2006: 213.6 million.
contribution to the development and growth in Insulating Ceramics to be On a constant currency basis, success of the business.
more in the 5-6% p. a. range going year-on-year revenue growth was 6.3%.
forward rather than the double digit Looking forward Operating profit before one-off items for levels achieved in 2007. the Division was up 2.4% at 34.6 million Our vision for Morgan Crucible is for your 2006: 33.8 million with underlying Over and above the strong organic profit Company to be one of the worlds very operating profit margins increasing to progression noted above, we announced best advanced materials companies.
two significant acquisitions for the Group.
At the beginning of this Report and The first saw Morgan Crucible acquire Accounts we have illustrated our five Results for the Carbon Division were an initial 49% stake in NP Aerospace for strategic priorities, with case studies particularly strong in the first half of c. 41 million, including 36 million of from around the Group.
I hope that you 2007 with excellent performance from a shareholder loan.
There is an agreed find them interesting and informative.
our American and Asian businesses.
mechanism in place whereby we will Our strategic priorities are all formulated The second half was more challenging move to 70% ownership in 2011 and with one objective in mind: to create as our armour business was impacted through to 100% ownership in the long-term superior shareholder value.
by one-off operational issues in the third three years thereafter.
quarter at one of our key customers.
The As you are well aware, the global resultant slowdown in production We announced the second major economic environment is much more acquisition in December which will affected our top line by c. 6 million.
As challenging now than it has been in you would expect, we worked closely see Certech and Carpenter Advanced recent years.
We anticipate cost inflation Ceramics join our Technical Ceramics with our customer to correct the issues pressures and demand uncertainties and I am pleased to report that our Division.
The businesses are being in a number of our markets.
However, Armour sales recovered significantly in bought from Carpenter Technology although we are not immune to the Corporation of the US for c. 73 million the last quarter of the year.
economic cycle, we believe that with a targeted completion date of Morgan Crucible is now better placed Our Technical Ceramics Division has the end of the first quarter.
to weather industrial downturns than it again delivered an improvement was in the past.
In 2008 we will continue in underlying operating profit which We will talk in greater length about both to work towards our goal of achieving was up 17.1% at 19.9 million 2006: of these acquisitions in the Divisional mid-teen operating margins in good reviews, but both are very well aligned 17.0 million.
Underlying operating profit times and remaining above double margins improved to 13.0% 2006: 10.5%.
to the Groups strategic objective of digits in bad times.
moving towards higher margin, non This year-on-year improvement in profit was delivered despite lower 2007 economically cyclical end markets.
In my first full year of being Chief Executive revenues, which were held back by a Officer I am pleased to report that your Our balance sheet activity was not major product line with a large US Company is in robust financial health just confined to acquisitions.
We also customer coming to the end of its and is well placed to continue its invested 46.9 million in our ongoing lifecycle.
As a result, on a reported basis, positive momentum.
share buyback programme in 2007. year-on-year revenues were down 6.1% Mark Robertshaw Going forward, our plan is to continue compared to 2006 and only 2.3% on a Chief Executive officer to use buybacks selectively as part of constant currency basis.
However, as we our managment of the Groups balance defined as operating profit before costs of enter 2008 the order books in Technical restructuring and net legal costs recovered sheet.
We are aiming for an efficient, Ceramics are particularly strong and we associated with settlement of anti-trust litigation, but prudent, level of gearing of around expect a return to the robust levels of top gain on curtailment of UK employee benefit 2 to 2.5 times net debt to EBITDA.
schemes, terminated bid approach costs line growth we have been delivering in and gain loss on disposal of property.
A major priority for me, as Chief Executive, is to continue to develop and enhance defined as interest bearing loans and The stand-out performer of our Divisions borrowing, bank overdrafts less cash the senior management team of Morgan in 2007 was Insulating Ceramics which and other cash equivalents.
To this end, we recruited had an extremely good year, delivering Tim Hayter to lead the Thermal Ceramics CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 15
