10 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Making travel simpler This ambition could not be more timely.
Chief A year ago, I described National The whole of society is rightly concerned Express as a business in great shape, Executives about congestion, atmospheric pollution but with even greater potential.
and, more than ever, global warming.
Review Public transport is increasingly Our results for the past year confirm that recognised as a crucial part of societys we have begun to realise that potential, response to these challenges.
So our for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
social and commercial missions are As we make further progress in wholly aligned.
But only if people believe implementing our strategy, customers that travelling with us will actually will see the increasing difference it improve their quality of life.
Only if we makes when a transport business can genuinely make travel simpler.
Employees will be energised as the Our strategy for growing the business business moves emphatically onto remains clear and simple: the front foot.
And investors will see Reorient the Group around how these changes fundamentally a more customer-driven, strengthen our ability to create value.
branded proposition Our strategy Develop new products and services Too often, public transport is and grow organically operationally focused rather than customer led.
Passengers are seen in Acquire businesses in markets the abstract, rather than as individual where we can add value consumers who make choices.
We have been doing all these things in This gives us an enormous opportunity the past year, and will continue to do to stand out in the marketplace and them.
Our progress so far has attract more customers by changing convinced us that we are able to deliver their perceptions of public transport.
this strategy, that it creates value, and A company that understands and that it gives us an edge over other creates strong relationships with its businesses in our sector.
Heres how: customers will greatly enhance its value.
So if we take the trouble to give people a service they want and will pay for, everyone can be a winner.
Our results for the past year confirm that we have begun to realise our potential, for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
Richard Bowker Chief Executive 11 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Reorient the business around a One brand We are putting increasing effort into Customers tell us that getting from A to B has more customer driven, branded knowing our customers through become increasingly complex over the years.
proposition research and data capture to better Were focused on making it simpler.
By branding If we are going to make travel simpler, understand who they are, when and all of our UK businesses under the National we need to be a more joined-up Express name we are making it easier for where they want to travel, what they customers to recognise our services organisation.
We have taken the first want and dont want.
This enables whichever mode they travel on.
step, which is to unite all our UK us to market more intelligently.
Now, As we become a more joined-up for the first time, we are able to think business with an integrated customer in terms of customers and their end-tobase and brand, we are better placed end journey requirements, rather than to join forces with other powerful focusing on the operational brands.
Partnerships with venues such requirements of this bus route as the O2 Arena, Twickenham and or that train service.
Wembley Stadium mean people can A single, customer focused team is book combined event and travel tickets.
developing innovative ideas for new We are currently exploring other projects across all our transport modes.
partnerships to broaden the offer Instead of developing separate we can make to customers.
schemes for West Midlands bus smart We are also working to link our ticketing cards, East Coast train smart cards and systems so that customers can book Londons Oyster card, we a single ticket for a journey that may will now be able to drive them all as involve several different National Express a single project.
This will take some time about what customers actually want, to complete.
Last year we brought working in an integrated way is both all our websites together behind a single more exciting and more profitable.
portal and the next step will be to This clear customer focus is reflected introduce an integrated online booking in a more coherent brand identity with engine.
Ultimately, we want our web clearly defined aims and values.
The customers to be able to buy a single visible sign of this is the new National e-ticket or m-ticket on their mobile Express livery.
It began appearing on phone for their entire journey, which our Dot2Dot vehicles and East Coast all our ticket systems will recognise.
Through the first half of 2008 it will also start to appear on coaches, buses, and our National Express East Anglia train franchise.
But the brand is not just a new paint job.
It tells our customers that we are one business.
Our common purpose is to improve the quality of life for all through travel.
Our promise is to make travel simpler.
We will be embedding our new values in the business, to inspire a change that customers will really notice.
To ensure this change is felt across all areas of the business we are investing in training that will help our front line staff focus on our customers.
Our First Level Leaders training programme is helping them to lead the culture change that moves us from being operationally focused to living and breathing customer service.
12 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Develop new products and and technology to offer unbeatable Chief services and grow organically efficiency and value, while developing In our UK Rail business theres no doubt Executives added-value services that will strongly that the prize of the year was East differentiate us and provide potential Review Coast, the UKs premier railway.
is a great deal we can do to improve continued As we understand more about peoples its operating performance and offer travel needs, we are able to develop customers a significantly more enjoyable new businesses to satisfy them.
We have hit the ground examples in 2007 were the launches running, with almost 50m to invest of our dedicated commuter coach and a plan to do this fast so we get services and Dot2Dot our new airport maximum impact over the life of transfer service.
The traditional downmarket image of We are refurbishing trains and refining coach travel is increasingly out of date.
the timetable to make best use of Many of todays coaches compare existing resources until 2010, when favourably with aircraft as a place to we can bring in additional refurbished relax or work.
And for sustainability they trains to add 25 new services a day.
rate even better than trains.
So we are Then in 2012 we can start introducing seeking niches where we can attract the brand new Intercity Express trains people who would not normally currently being designed so there will consider booking a coach ticket.
be exciting developments throughout the contract.
A model, which has already proved successful in the US, is on-demand We expect great things from our transport between airports and new partnership with The Football individual addresses in town centres.
Our new Dot2Dot service, a high-quality, Not just because Wembley is a worldshared ride, linking Heathrow and class stadium with capacity for 90,000 Gatwick airports with Central London people and parking for under 3,000 hotels, is designed cars: but more widely because it will to offer the convenience of a limo help us to raise our profile in the special at half the price of a taxi.
events market, which is becoming an important part of our business.
For Offering simple online booking, Dot2Dot example, as coach provider for has achieved extremely high customer Glastonbury in 2007, we had coaches satisfaction: in our first surveys, 91% leaving at an average of one every 3 said they would recommend it to others.
minutes on the last day of the festival.
But hotels are just the start, we have already extended the service to Alsa, our Spanish coach and bus Londons Canary Wharf, and as part of operation, achieved passenger growth our joined-up thinking we plan to of 4% while maintaining our market offer through tickets to Heathrow leading margins.
Like for like revenue from East Coast stations, using growth continues to meet our Dot2Dot from Kings Cross.
expectations and we are encouraged by the increasing commercial opportunities Another important niche is commuter that are emerging as the Spanish travel.
Last year we began piloting a market liberalises.
commuter coach service from Milton Keynes to the Canary Wharf business In North America we had a very good A clear focus district.
We see coaches as a very We carry more than a million children to school bidding season, winning 14 new school viable alternative to rail for commuting: every day.
Our focus is on getting them there bus contracts.
Having sold Stewart in safety and comfort.
they are cheap and flexible, and allow Airport in October for US$78.5m we are rapid adjustments in capacity.
In 2008 totally focused on school buses.
We are we plan to introduce further new now the number two private operator, commuter routes.
carrying a million students to school each day, in a market which is still 70% We are also planning to launch our first public sector operated.
We are already premium scheduled service, aimed positioned as a high quality operator specifically at business travellers into with an outstanding offer in customer London.
This will be comparable to the service and quality.
Building on a record Supra premium services that Alsa of steady 16-17% annual growth, our launched in Spain last year.
The new Business Transformation Programme is Supra coaches are equipped with leather beginning to make full use of our scale seats, multi-channel video and audio, 13 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our people laptop power sockets at every seat the business, particularly Our people are at the heart of our business and and, for the first time in Spain, onboard in urban bus networks.
And in the we remain focused on their training and wi-fi.
Supra passengers also have longer term there may also be development.
Inspiring our people in turn their own VIP lounges at a number opportunities to build on our UK ensures we provide the best customer service for each of our customers.
Acquire businesses in markets The journey continues where we can add value We have come a long way in the past For both commuter coaches and year, although there is still further to go.
Dot2Dot we used small acquisitions to Integrating systems and changing build expertise and market presence cultures cannot be done overnight.
But I am encouraged by our peoples increasing eagerness to get there.
Their To gain momentum in the commuter enthusiasm for what we are doing, and market we acquired the Kings Ferry their initiative in finding more customer Travel Group, which runs the largest and centred ways of working, are building most successful commuter coach ever greater momentum for change.
operation in London and the South East.
I thank them for what theyve achieved And to help establish Dot2Dot we so far, and look forward to what we will bought Londons only comparable accomplish together in 2008. operation, Hotelink, which gave us a core business and desks in the airport Last year we benefited from favourable terminals: we also negotiated the market conditions.
The economic European rights to proven management environment for transport was good, software used successfully in 30 US and, in particular, rail saw a boom in cities by GO Airport Shuttle.
This year will be tougher.
But our experience convinces us that if we In Spain, by contrast, we made a very can continue to offer new and exciting large acquisition that cements our ideas, we will go on attracting more position as the countrys dominant customers despite any downturn.
player in coach travel by far.
The 459.8m purchase of Continental Auto We launched a lot of good ideas last neatly dovetails with our existing Alsa year.
This year we will feel the benefit as operation, adding strength in south west they gather momentum.
We confidently and north east Spain to our existing expect to continue growing our weight in the south east and north west.
business and the National Express We now have more than 2,100 coaches brand as customers discover we really and buses in Spain, one of Europes are making travel simpler for them.
We see great potential for expanding As we understand more about peoples travel needs, we are able to develop new businesses to satisfy them.
Two examples in 2007 were the launches of our dedicated commuter coach services and Dot2Dot our new airport transfer service.
