Directors Report and Business Review C CH HIIE EF F E EX XE EC CU UT TIIV five ES S R RE EV VIIE EW W A A F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL LL LY Y S SU UC CC CE ES SS SF FU UL L Y YE EA AR R The financial objective for NEXT plc is the delivery of long term sustainable growth in earnings per share.
EPS have increased by 14.7% in a year that we anticipated would be challenging.
Profit before interest increased by 7.8% and these gains were enhanced through the purchase for cancellation of 7.7% of our share capital during the year.
Progress in profits has been made despite negative like for like sales growth in NEXT Retail.
This has been achieved through rigorous cost control, good stock control in the second half, improving gross margins and continued sales growth in NEXT Directory.
Operating profits were at the top end of our expectations and were further enhanced by an unexpected reduction in the pension charge following the year end actuarial valuation.
At the beginning of last year we said that like for like sales would be negative as a result of improving competition and a worsening consumer environment.
However we recognise that there are things we can do internally to improve the performance of the NEXT Brand.
What we have to do is simple, but not easy recapture some of the magic and excitement that has gone hand in hand with the success of NEXT over many years.
4 4 Directors Report and Business Review R RE EV VIIT TA AL LIIS SIIN NG G T TH HE E N NE EX XT T B BR RA AN ND D Over the last six months we have taken steps to revitalise the NEXT Brand and these changes will become more apparent as the year progresses.
In order of importance, the programme we have put in place focuses on: Improving our product offer.
Improving the marketing of the brand.
Further development of our shop fit and store environment.
The following paragraphs talk about some of the things we are doing, the language mirrors the way in which we have communicated these objectives within the business.
The starting point is setting out what the NEXT Brand stands for: Exciting, beautifully designed, excellent quality clothing and homeware: p pr re es se en nt te ed d iin n c co olllle ec ct tiio on ns s t th ha at t r re ef flle ec ct t t th he e a as sp piir ra at tiio on ns s a an nd d m me ea an ns s o of f o ou ur r c cu us st to om me er rs s IIm mp pr ro ov viin ng g t th he e P Pr ro od du uc ct t O Of ff fe er r There are three main themes that must influence the way we put our ranges together going forward: M Mo or re e f fo oc cu us s o on n n ne ew wn ne es ss s NEXT ranges will contain more newness and be less dependent on repeating last years best sellers.
This is only partly about introducing new suppliers and improving lead times, it is mainly about having the courage and intuition to back new trends with conviction before having firm evidence that they will succeed!
Essentially this is a cultural change rather than a change in procedure.
M Mo or re e f fo oc cu us s o on n q qu ua alliit ty y As a result of considerable success at the lower end of our price architecture we had become less focused on mid and higher price points.
Going forward we will maintain our price starter business, but increase the emphasis on beautifully designed, great quality product at mid to upper price points.
This is the product that customers come to NEXT for.
P Pr ro od du uc ct t w we e llo ov five e This is the hardest idea to put into words, but essentially we need to be personally more connected with our clothing.
As a retail business becomes more successful there is a temptation to begin to regard the product as a commodity we need to like, wear and be excited by our product.
When new items arrive in our shops, the first thing the staff should think is not that will sell, but I want that!.
M Ma ar rk ke et tiin ng g We have always believed that the product makes the brand and not vice versa, however it is not enough that we only improve our product ranges.
Every contact we have with the customer needs to convey the excitement and quality we aspire to in our clothing and homeware.
To this end we will continue to upgrade all the elements of our instore marketing from graphics through to internal displays.
We have spent over two million pounds replacing window bust forms with new mannequins.
In larger stores we are also rolling out internal mannequin displays.
5 5 Directors Report and Business Review For the first time in many years we have undertaken a brand advertising campaign, which will continue at regular intervals throughout the year.
Overall we estimate we will spend in the region of 10m in the year ahead up from 1.5m last year.
The aim is that all of our communications will reflect the theme of the campaigns instore, windows, web page, direct mail and elsewhere.
S Sh ho op p F Fiit t The 13 stores refitted last year continue to perform ahead of our expectations and have improved their sales performance by 5%.
In the light of this we have undertaken a more radical review of our shop fit.
The first concept change in May last year was essentially decorative: the next phase will tackle every element of a store from decoration through to centre floor fixtures, flooring and circulation space.
We will be introducing elements of the new shop fit throughout the spring and summer but the first full refit in the new concept will be Bluewater Park, Kent which will re-launch at the end of May.
The first new store to be opened in the new concept will be Sheffield Meadowhall in late August.
The following table summarises our shop fit programme for the year ahead.
It shows both the capital we expect to spend and the percentage of space we expect to reflect the new concept in some way by the end of the year.
S Sq qu ua ar re e F Fe ee et t 0 00 00 0s s R Re ef fiit ts s N Ne ew w S St to or re es s T To ot ta all Spring Summer 297 174 471 Autumn Winter 356 268 624 Full Year 653 442 1 1, 0 09 95 5 Percentage of portfolio 13% 8% 2 21 1% % C Ca ap piit ta all e ex xp pe en nd diit tu ur re e m m R Re ef fiit ts s N Ne ew w S St to or re es s T To ot ta all Spring Summer 17 24 41 Autumn Winter 17 39 56 Full Year 34 63 9 97 7 N NE EX XT T R RE ET TA AIIL L R Re et ta aiill S Sa alle es s Sales in NEXT Retail were 1.7% ahead of last year.
Like for like sales in stores that traded continuously and were not affected by the opening of new space were -7.2% down on last year.
Weak full price like for like sales of -6.6% were further reduced as a result of smaller end of season Sales than last year.
stores LFL % Total 3 39 94 4 1 10 0.. 0 0% % 343 7.1% Underlying 2 26 69 9 7 7.. 2 2% % 224 2.9% NEXT defines like for like stores as those that have traded for at least one full year and have not benefited from significant capital expenditure.
Sales from these stores for the current year are then compared to the same period in the previous year to calculate like for like sales figures.
Underlying like for like sales applies the same calculation to only those stores which were unaffected by new store openings.
6 6 Directors Report and Business Review N Ne ew w S Sp pa ac ce e In the year we added a net 514,000 square feet and increased the number of stores by 41 to a total of 480.
Annual 2 20 00 07 7 2006 change Store numbers 4 48 80 0 439 41 Square feet 000s 4 4, 8 82 23 3 4,309 514 Selling space is defined as the trading floor area of a store, excluding stockroom, administration and other non-trading areas.
We estimate that payback of the net capital invested in new space will be 17 months, which will be well within our investment criteria of 24 months.
When appraising a new store we account for the loss of sales and profit from nearby stores that we expect to suffer a downturn as a result of the new opening.
Sales from new space, net of this deflection, are now forecast to be -0.4% down on our appraised target.
We currently expect to add a net 350,000 square feet in the year ahead.
R Re et ta aiill P Pr ro of fiit t Profit in NEXT Retail decreased by -3.8% compared with last year.
Net operating margin was down from 14.8% to 14.0%.
The erosion in margin is detailed in the table below, the figures show the change as a percentage of sales for each of our major heads of cost.
N Ne et t o op pe er ra at tiin ng g m ma ar rg giin n lla as st t y ye ea ar r 14.8% Increase in achieved gross margin 1.5% Increase in branch occupancy costs 1.9% Increase in branch wage costs 0.4% Change in central overheads 0.0% N Ne et t o op pe er ra at tiin ng g m ma ar rg giin n t th hiis s y ye ea ar r 14.0% Gross margin is the difference between the cost of stock and the initial selling price.
Operating margin is the residual profit after deducting markdowns and all direct and indirect trading costs.
Both are expressed as a percentage of the achieved VAT exclusive selling price.
The improved gross margin was a result of better sourcing, and was achieved without raising prices or reducing quality.
The bought in gross margin was up 1.6% which reduced to an achieved margin improvement of 1.5% after slightly higher markdown costs.
Branch occupancy costs increased as a percentage of sales due to the impact of lower like for like sales on fixed expenses such as rent, rates, depreciation and energy.
Wages increased marginally as a percentage of sales mainly as a result of the cost of living pay award at the beginning of the year.
N NE EX XT T D DIIR RE EC CT TO OR RY Y D Diir re ec ct to or ry y S Sa alle es s NEXT Directory performed well with sales 13.1% ahead of last year.
Improved stock availability, lower returns rates and increased service charge income meant that sales rose faster than the underlying demand.
Demand, which is the total value of all items requested by customers before adjusting for out of stocks or returns, was 4.9% up on last year.
The increase in demand was driven by an increase of 6.4% in the average number of active customers and an increase of 13.6% in printed pages.
The internet continues to grow in importance and since January this year has taken just over 50% of Directory sales.
7 7 Directors Report and Business Review O Ou ut tllo oo ok k f fo or r C Cu us st to om me er r R Re ec cr ru uiit tm me en nt t We begin the year with 2.2% more customers than last year.
We are anticipating that the growth in Directory customer numbers will be slower in the year ahead.
There are two reasons for this: We have increased the credit status requirements to eliminate some of the bad debt we incurred last year.
We anticipate a significant increase in competition for new customers online in the clothing sector and across all other retail sectors.
The effect of this will be to push up the cost of recruitment online.
IIn nc cr re ea as siin ng g S Sa alle es s p pe er r C Cu us st to om me er r As recruitment slows there will be an increased emphasis on increasing sales per customer.
There are two key initiatives: B Br ro oa ad fide en niin ng g t th he e p pr ro od du uc ct t o of ff fe er r This will mainly be in the Home and Electricals category.
In order to allow us to increase the number of pages in the main catalogue, for Autumn Winter we will be printing two separate hard back catalogues one for Fashion and the other for Home.
IIm mp pr ro ov five ed d iin nt te er rn ne et t f fu un nc ct tiio on na alliit ty y We will improve the search-ability of the site, both from external search engines and within the site using our own search engine.
We will also begin to develop active selling software to encourage link sales.
2 20 00 07 7 2006 Average active customers 2 2.. 1 14 4 m miilllliio on n 2.01 million Increase on prior year 6 6% % 11% Average sales per customer 3 36 63 3 351 Active customers are defined as those who have placed an order in the last 20 weeks or who are paying off a current balance.
The average for the year is calculated as a weighted average of each weeks figure.
Average sales per customer are calculated as statutory sales divided by the average number of customers.
D Diir re ec ct to or ry y P Pr ro of fiit t NEXT Directory profit was up 48.5% on last year, an exceptional performance, and significantly ahead of the growth in sales.
The improvement in net operating margin is detailed in the table below, the figures show the change as a percentage of sales for each of our major heads of cost.
N Ne et t o op pe er ra at tiin ng g m ma ar rg giin n lla as st t y ye ea ar r 14.1% Reduction in achieved gross margin 0.2% Increase in bad debt 0.6% Increase in service charge income 1.5% Reduction in central overheads 3.8% N Ne et t o op pe er ra at tiin ng g m ma ar rg giin n t th hiis s y ye ea ar r 18.6% The achieved gross margin declined despite an increase in the bought in gross margin of 1.2%.
This year we transferred less stock from Directory to Retail for the end of season Sales, which resulted in higher markdowns and the achieved gross margin declining by -0.2%.
Although we experienced a significant increase in bad debt, this was more than compensated for by an increase in service charge income.
Central overheads reduced very significantly as a percentage of sales.
Much of the improvement came as a result of new warehousing techniques made possible by the opening of our new boxed warehouse.
Improved collation rates meant that we needed fewer separate deliveries per order.
This contributed to significantly lower distribution costs and warehouse picking costs were also down.
Increased use of the internet and our call centre in India meant that call centre costs also reduced as a percentage of sales.
8 8 Directors Report and Business Review B BR RA AN ND D C CO OS ST T A AL LL LO OC CA AT TIIO ON N We have revised the allocation of costs between the NEXT Directory and NEXT Retail.
In order to facilitate comparisons we have presented last years figures on a consistent basis.
There is no change to the total NEXT Brand profit as a consequence.
C CO OS ST T C CO ON NT TR RO OL L We anticipate the retail environment will remain challenging and it will be important for NEXT to continue to make cost savings throughout the business.
We believe that there is still the opportunity to make improvements to our operating efficiency, albeit not on the scale we achieved last year.
We also believe we can make some further progress in improving our bought in gross margins.
L LIIM ME E Lime, the value brand trading in NEXT Clearance stores, is now also in 10 stand alone stores.
The performance of Lime in NEXT Clearance is satisfactory and provides a useful way to capitalise on the footfall generated by our clearance products.
It also allows us to make up for the inevitable gaps in the clearance ranges.
The performance in stand alone stores is not yet strong enough to warrant any significant roll out, although we will open 2 further stores this spring.
We will be able to make an initial assessment of Lime as a stand alone concept early in 2008, as by then we will have like for like sales comparisons.
N NE EX XT T F FR RA AN NC CH HIIS SE E Sales to our overseas franchise partners grew by 27% during the year.
However, our franchise partners own sales rose by only 14%, the difference being due to over-ordering by one of our partners.
This stock was sold on a cost plus royalty basis, so whilst we have recovered the cost of the stock we have not made any profit on it.
We now allocate a share of central costs to NEXT Franchise, primarily warehouse and merchandising, which amounted to 2.4m for the year.
This will continue going forward.
Excluding this re-allocation of costs, comparable profit for NEXT Franchise rose by 6.7%.
Our partners opened 33 new stores in the year, making 129 in total.
Our largest region remains the Middle East in terms of store numbers and sales.
Europe is growing strongly with 13 stores opened in Russia and 5 in Turkey.
Stores were also opened in India and Thailand and we anticipate that 25 new stores will be opening during the current year.
N NE EX XT T S SO OU UR RC CIIN NG G N NS SL L NSL achieved lower sales than expected in the second half and ended the year at 31.8m profit, 1.1m below last year.
The major cause was the tight buying and stock levels maintained by NEXT Retail and Directory which led to lower income in NSL.
Action has been taken on costs to bring them into line with expected activity levels for 2007.
NSL is a profit centre and competes with other agents and factories.
It charges commission on the product it sources and bears its own operating costs.
It has offices in mainland China, Hong Kong, Romania, Sri Lanka, Turkey and the UK engaged in the design, sourcing, buying, merchandising and quality control of NEXT products.
V five EN NT TU UR RA A Ventura continued to build on its excellent first half.
Turnover for the year increased by 28% to 191m and, as a result, profits of 20.6m were ahead of our original expectations.
Ventura continues to retain and win new clients through its focus on delivering high quality service at excellent value for money.
It operates across many sectors including Telecoms, Utilities, Financial Services, Travel, Media and the Public Sector.
Ventura now employs 10,000 people and operates a wholly owned call centre in India.
We expect Ventura to make further progress in sales and profits in the year ahead.
In 2007 Ventura will commence selling warehouse and distribution services, initially using available capacity in the NEXT Retail and Directory network.
9 9 Directors Report and Business Review O OT TH HE ER R A AC CT TIIV VIIT TIIE ES S The Other Activities charge was 1.1m including Central Costs of 7.9m.
Other Activities also includes profits from our Property Management Division, Choice an associated company which operates sixteen discount stores and Cotton Traders an associated company which sells its own brand products.
During the year the Group paid 32.5m of extra contributions into its pension scheme.
This, together with changes in actuarial assumptions, reduced the scheme deficit from 116m to 47m.
The charge in Central Costs in respect of the scheme deficit, which is in addition to normal contributions, reduced to 0.8m this year compared with 5.9m last year.
B BA AL LA AN NC CE E S SH HE EE ET T A AN ND D C CA AS SH H F FL LO OW W Cash flow was very strong and before share buybacks we achieved an inflow of 237m.
The net cash outflow after share buybacks was 79m.
Net borrowings at the year end were 444m and are financed through a 300m 5.25% 10 year bond, which was issued in June 2003, and a new 5.875% 10 year bond issued last October.
The Group also has 450m of medium term bank facilities which are currently unused.
Capital expenditure included 89m on stores and 39m on warehousing.
We expect this years expenditure will be in the region of 170m.
Year end stock levels at 282m were 13% down on last year, which was partly due to the timing of shipments from our suppliers and was 10m below our preferred level.
Debtors of 578m included 424m of Directory customer account balances, which in future are expected to rise more in line with Directory sales.
S SH HA AR RE E B BU UY YB BA AC CK KS S During the year we purchased a further 19 million shares for cancellation at an average price of 1661p and a cash cost of 316m.
This was 7.7% of the shares in issue at the beginning of the year and was achieved by a combination of market purchases and the use of contingent purchase contracts.
We intend to continue with this strategy of buying back shares as and when it is in the interests of shareholders generally.
Resolutions to renew these authorities will be put to shareholders at the AGM in May.
of shares purchased 000 1 19 9, 0 04 46 6 15,011 % of opening share capital 7 7.. 7 7% % 5.7% Total cost, including stamp duty and associated costs m 3 31 16 6.. 3 3 217.5 Average cost per share 1 16 6.. 6 61 1 14.49 D DIIV VIID fide EN ND D The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 33.5p against 30p last year, bringing the total for the year to 49p compared with 44p, an increase of 11.4%.
The dividend is again covered almost 3 times by earnings per share of 146.1p.
It is not our intention for dividend cover to rise above three times.
C CU UR RR RE EN NT T T TR RA AD DIIN NG G The combined sales of NEXT Retail and NEXT Directory for the seven week period from 28 January to 17 March 2007 were up 4.4% compared to the same period last year.
NEXT Retail sales were up 4.1% in the period.
Mainline like for like sales in the 320 stores that were unaffected by new openings were down -0.3%.
NEXT Directory sales were up 5.3% in the period.
These figures for the seven week period need to be treated with some caution as this year the period includes the week before Mothers Day and last year it did not.
We estimate that as a result both NEXT Retail and Directory sales have been flattered by around 1.5%.
