We will return Northern Foods to steady top and bottom line growth by making great tasting food that shoppers want to buy again and again Stefan Barden Chief executive 04 Chief executives review Northern Foods plc Chief executives review Attractive market segments Independent tests show that many Delivering our agenda We will focus particularly on markets with strong of our products taste better than those The past year has been one of growth potential, which reflect the consumer of our competitors.
Repeat purchase rates real progress for Northern Foods.
drivers of convenience, indulgence and a healthy, for many of our products are regularly The strategic review, announced in balanced lifestyle.
Five of our market segments amongst the best in our markets: grew by an average of 9% last year Ready meals, May 2006, set out our plans to create Sandwiches, Salads, Pizza and Christmas puddings Our food safety processes and technologists a firm foundation on which to build.
and in four of these segments we were ranked are amongst the very best in the country.
number one or two in terms of revenue.
Another We are the only food manufacturer with We set out to: key market for us is Biscuits.
While it is not a major a food laboratory that has dual accreditation sales growth opportunity for us, we recognise from the UK Governments Accreditation create a more focused business around significant profit improvement potential and Service UKAS.
This covers both our food strong brands and growing retailer own we remain committed to achieving this.
testing laboratories and on site technical label relationships through a major evaluation activities and means we are disposal programme: These six segments account for 87% of our able to deliver independent third party simplify our Chilled division: revenue.
Top line growth will be limited to where audits and assessments.
We have been achieve strong positive cash generation this can be delivered profitably.
In some areas instrumental in codifying many of the and effective capital management: and we are capacity constrained but investment chilled food industrys hygiene and reduce corporate central costs.
will be limited to ensure adequate returns are manufacturing policies and standards: achieved, while we will continue to exit business I am pleased to report that we have successfully which remains unprofitable.
Our service delivery to customers remains delivered our disposal programme and have consistently at the very highest levels.
achieved measurable progress against our Partnering selected customers We regularly receive customer accolades other objectives, providing a firm foundation We partner with customers and invest and awards in this area.
We are building for future growth across Northern Foods.
in assets that can give them competitive a reputation as a can do manufacturer, advantage in their product ranges.
Since we able to respond to customer requests Creating a foundation for future growth focus on the premium tiers in retailer own quickly, be it step changes in product From this sound foundation, I believe we can brand ROB ranges such as Finest, Extra demand or delivering a high quality deliver operational and revenue improvements Special or The Best our products are new product brief within days: and for the future.
disproportionately important in building retailers own brand images.
We strive to Our products are seen as being good value deliver shopper loyalty and above average for money although we do not focus on We have a clear strategy, to: sales growth for retailers not just products.
focus on attractive market segments: Our customers ask for slightly different things, Low cost operating model but in general they all agree that they want: Our strategy is being delivered through the partner with customers who require expert management teams we have in place quality, innovation and high levels great tasting food: in each of our retained businesses.
Each team of service: made safely: has responsibility and accountability for its delivered correctly: and own performance.
Each knows its market and deliver through a low cost, high at the right price.
customer base and can respond quickly and performance business model.
profitably to opportunities and challenges Success will come from continuing to listen in their target market.
to our customers and profitably delivering what they require better than other manufacturers, and we are working to deliver this success: 6 Year on Year Ready meals 7 We are focused on attractive 7 market growth % Sandwiches 13 markets, growing at a 8 Salads wet and prepared 15 weighted average of 6% 8 Pizza frozen and chilled 9 9 Christmas Puddings 1 8 Biscuits 1 Average growth 6 6 TNS MAT 25 03 07 7 TNS Impulse Food on the Go MAT 25 03 07 8 AC Nielsen Scantrack MAT 24 03 07 9 Internal estimate including retail and own brand catering events and other Northern Foods plc Chief executives review 05 Chilled division Our other Chilled business unit is Sandwiches Frozen division Our Ready meals business competes in & Salads.
This business requires an exceptional Our Frozen business produces and markets a market created by Northern Foods and focus on service due to the very short shelf life strong brands which we continue to expand M&S in partnership some 30 years ago.
of its chilled products: less than 48 hours from and develop.
In Pizza, we have the UKs This business has been one of our most time of manufacture and sometimes even number one brand, Goodfellas, with 31.5% 8 challenging in recent years.
In spite of making shorter.
We have a critical role in helping of the frozen segment.
We are not, however, great products, we have failed to deliver an retailers maximise their own sales, while restricted to frozen pizza.
The total UK pizza acceptable level of profitability.
Excess market minimising waste, by delivering their daily market is valued at nearly 700m and growing 8 capacity and a high cost to serve operating orders exactly as requested.
This is a real at 9% annually.
In addition to Goodfellas, model have adversely impacted margins.
challenge in the changeable British climate, we produce the leading ROB chilled pizza Our Chilled simplification programme is which causes day to day orders to fluctuate range for Tesco.
We are currently exploring starting to deliver demonstrable improvement.
how best to leverage our market leadership and technology capability across the combined The UK retail ready meals market is now worth The largest market within this business unit is frozen and chilled segments.
At the same time, more than 1.5 billion and is growing at nearly sandwiches.
The UK multiple retailer sandwich we continue to grow and consolidate our 6 7% annually.
Increasingly constrained market market is worth 577m and is growing at 13% leadership in frozen, successfully innovating 7 capacity, coupled with our complexity annually.
Consumers are reducing homemade and refreshing the product range: indeed, reduction programme, should allow margin consumption in favour of quality products in Goodfellas Solos was named the fastest 11 recovery ahead of considering new investment.
an ever increasing choice of carriers breads growing brand in the UK in 2006. and fillings.
Northern Foods is ranked number 7 Our Ready meals revenue continues to three in this market with a 14% share, and With frozen Pizza representing 51% of improve, and in the last quarter we became our two sandwich customers, Tesco and M&S, divisional revenue, our other frozen food 10 market leader with a 19% value share.
are the market leaders, offering good growth brands represent valuable parts of our Our great tasting meals reflect the unique potential for us.
Both the Green Isle and Donegal skills of our chefs and production teams, product launches will benefit from our strong Catch brands are market leaders in Ireland and coupled with our ingredient sourcing and innovation capability, with many of our breads are well placed to capitalise on healthy eating manufacturing capabilities.
These drive and wraps coming directly from our in house trends.
For example, our Donegal Catch fish high levels of repeat purchase and resultant traditional bakery.
business has grown 20% over the past year retailer demand on which we are capitalising.
through the delivery of healthy, innovative Concurrently, we are working to improve our The wet and prepared salads markets together product ranges.
We see significant scope to margins, through correctly pricing our core are worth 407m and are growing at an expand our product portfolio through different 8 business and ensuring we charge fully for average of 15% annually.
Healthy living routes to the consumer and we will update the value of meeting customers additional and summer eating are driving demand and on these programmes when appropriate.
Northern Foods market share reached 18% 8 in 2006 07, putting us at number two in Meanwhile, Grassingtons Food Co. our Our Ready meals recovery programme will the market.
Again, outstanding service and Meat-free range of vegetable meals and meal take time to deliver and may not be a smooth premium quality credentials underpin our accompaniments, has consolidated its position path, but we believe we have the right plans in success.
We operate close to capacity in the peak in the UK.
Our total Meat-free market share place to continue this business units recovery.
summer months and have committed to a has overtaken Linda McCartney to become 8 9m expansion of our Corby production facility.
At the same time, we are working to resolve our areas of underperformance within the Frozen division, which have been adversely affected by healthy eating trends.
The meat and pastry markets have faced significant challenges in the past year as consumers change their diets.
As a result our Dalepak meat grill and Hollands meat pie brands have disappointed and we are working hard on plans to improve performance to meet our strict shareholder return criteria.
We manage a portfolio of strong retained businesses Ready meals Sandwiches & Salads Pizza Biscuits Puddings 10 TNS 12 weeks ending 25 03 07 11 The Grocer January 2007 06 Chief executives review Northern Foods plc Bakery division Finally, our Puddings business has good In Biscuits we participate in one of the largest growth potential.
Over two thirds of all Ready meals snacking product markets, worth 1.87 billion Christmas puddings purchased are made 9 Our great tasting ready meals, annually, but a combination of our limited by us and we have identified a further 12 which reflect the unique skills of market share at 11% and annual market expansion opportunity in the premium 8 growth of only 1% make this a difficult space Christmas market.
This year we will test our chefs and production teams, in which to operate.
However, after a recent market a premium Matthew Walker Christmas are driving market growth profit decline, we do believe that we have pudding.
Drawing on original Victorian recipes, stabilised the business and that there is good this will be the definitive Christmas Pudding.
value to be created through focusing on product Consumer research has helped develop an innovation and selected investment.
Our exciting concept from the original Christmas Sandwiches initiatives focus on simplification, automation, Pudding maker and retailers will benefit from and innovation driven top line growth.
& Salads To deliver this improvement better, we have Reduced factory complexity costs will result Our customers will benefit from reorganised our management team around from offering the brand to many of our three segments, each of which addresses a smaller trade customers who currently have our strong innovation capability and different consumer need: requires a different their own bespoke recipes at high cost to both our outstanding reputation for service customer sales pitch: and has a different partners.
A successful test will result in a full supply chain structure and assets: launch in 2008.
Everyday biscuits, under the Foxs brand, Outlook Pizza continues to meet consumer needs through The past year has been one of real progress its strong stable of sub-brands, including for Northern Foods, as we delivered against In Pizza we have the UKs Rocky, Echo and Classic, and will be our key objectives, successfully completing number one brand Goodfellas.
supported by expansion into the indulgent our disposal programme and creating a We have a strong innovation and childrens biscuits segments, where focused business for the future.
agenda for this year market growth exists: This year will see further progress in the In Seasonal biscuits we enjoy segment transition of the group.
We expect to see leadership with a portfolio led by the continued opportunities for revenue growth Creations brand, and a large range of and improved performance, particularly Biscuits bespoke products for retailers.
Production in the attractive Chilled markets.
However, is complex and labour intensive and challenges remain, especially in Biscuits, Biscuits is a profit, not a top line will benefit from targeted automation: where we are experiencing a sustained growth opportunity for us increase in input costs.
In Retailer Own Brand biscuits we are a strong and innovative partner for our retailer Nonetheless, I am confident that our increased customers and will exploit surplus capacity focus and improved financial position mean Puddings from our asset base where a low cost we are well placed to deliver steady top position can be sustained.
and bottom line growth and create value Building on our heritage, this year for shareholders.
will see us launch the definitive Overall, we look to deliver medium term Christmas pudding under improvement in our Biscuits business as our Stefan Barden the Matthew Walker brand newly installed teams implement their plans.
30 May 2007 This year will see further progress in the transition of the group 12 Internal estimate combined Retail and Own Brand share Northern Foods plc Chief executives review 07
