8 Chief Executives Review OVERVIEW This has been another good year for Northgate.
We have achieved good growth in key parts of the business and capitalised on our strong positions in each of our markets.
Revenue has continued to grow and we saw an acceleration in that growth in the second half of the year in all parts of the Group, driven by a strong performance in the Human Resources division, Public Services returning to growth and an increase in workload in the Managed Services division, driven by a number of significant new Education contracts.
It is pleasing to see our continued investment in sales and marketing moving us towards our medium-term growth expectations.
Overall, revenues for the year rose 6% to 351.7 million.
Profit after tax increased by 18% to 25.1 million leading to a rise in adjusted basic earnings per share of 13.1% to 6.90p.
Organic revenue growth accelerated in all parts of the Group in the second half of the year.
Underlying growth improved from 1.7% in the first half of the year to 7.7% in the second half, giving organic growth of 4.8% for the year 2006: 4.1%.
Public Services and Managed Services showed particular half-on-half progress.
In addition to driving our organic growth, we have made a number of important acquisitions to build our presence and skills within our Human Resources and Public Services markets.
These have culminated, since the period-end, in the acquisition of a controlling stake in ARINSO, the international HR services group based in Belgium, and making an offer for the remaining shares.
This acquisition has transformed Northgate into a global provider of Human Resources systems and services and marks a step change in the development of the Group.
We believe that, in the past 12 months, we have laid the foundations for the Group to develop in the years to come.
In these accounts, we have taken an exceptional reorganisation provision of 6.3 million, partly offset by one-off net property gains of 3.0 million.
This provision is intended to fund the full integration of acquisitions completed in the 2007 financial year into the main Group and ensure that our delivery and support functions are the right scale for the market conditions they currently address.
client contracts and extended our relationship with many DIVISIONAL REVIEW others.
Significantly there has been a sharp rise in the size of Human Resources contracts we have secured worth more than 1 million, as our clients increasingly sign up for large outsourcing contracts over longer periods of time instead of smaller Northgate HR systems or services contracts.
We signed 6 contracts % 2007 2006 Change worth more than 1 million in the period.
Some of the new Turnover 1 12 26 6.. 1 1m m 113.8m 11% contracts signed in the period included: 2 Divisional Operating Profit 3 35 5.. 3 3m m 31.2m 13% Divisional Operating Margins 2 28 8% % 27% 4% A five-year pensions administration contract with Alliance Boots plc, expanding the existing HR and payroll services provided by Northgate: Northgate HR has seen continued growth throughout the year with organic revenue growth increasing by 6.2% for the Providing an outsourced shared service for Payroll & HR to full year 2006: 4.0%.
We signed a record number of new Thistle Hotels for its 5,000 employees throughout the UK: 2 Divisional operating profit throughout is stated before significant restructuring, one-off incident, property provisions, amortisation of customer relationships and option costs.
The Directors consider that the adjustments better demonstrate the performance of the Group.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 9 A five-year contract with the University of Southampton Local Government, which accounts for approximately 60% to provide a payroll and pensions solution to more than of the division, enjoyed a busy and active second half year, 5,000 staff: and with a number of notable contract wins including a 5-year partnership with the London Borough of Croydon to deliver Deacons, one of Hong Kong's leading law firms, has signed a multi-application managed service solution: the delivery a contract for the use of ResourceLink for HR and Payroll.
of a customer relationship management system for This deployment will include the translation of the system Warrington Borough Council in support of its customer into Chinese utilising Unicode for use in Deacons' contact strategy: and Brent Council becoming the first local mainland China offices, which are located in Beijing, authority to benefit from a new identity management Shanghai and Guangzhou.
The Initiate Identity Hub enables local authorities and other public sector bodies to During the year we also extended our range of products and combine customer and business data held across disparate services in HR with a number of key acquisitions.
These corporate and departmental IT systems into centralised included: master records.
In addition, Northgate has been responsible for 82 new postal vote identification systems for local 3 Link Group Consultants for 11.3 million, the UK authority clients committed to eliminating fraud in postal leading reward systems specialist which develops voting and to modernising their electoral systems.
solutions to evaluate equal pay and conditions: Northgates housing sector has performed well and 3 Edis for 10.3 million, a pensions administration Northgate has been particularly focused on helping our outsourcing provider: and clients to save money in the administration of housing portfolios in front, middle and back office.
Northgate Engage, which develops scheduling, time and completed the roll-out of a single financial and housing attendance recording software.
management system for Midland Heart, one of the top ten housing and regeneration businesses in the UK.
All these smaller acquisitions are earnings-enhancing and build the Groups portfolio of products and services.
In the second half of the year, our Local Government business also completed the acquisition of Kendric Ash, a Moorepay, Northgate HRs business aimed at Small and leading transformation partner to the public sector which Medium Enterprises SME, saw its total number of clients has, since its creation, delivered more than 100 million in grow by 4.9% during the year.
Customer retention rates financial benefits to public sector clients.
The acquisition remain high at 94%.
Moorepay remains a leader in providing will help Northgate widen its service proposition in this vital HR services and support to SMEs and the Groups fast-growing part of the market.
offering to SMEs was further enhanced after the year end by the acquisition of First Business Support with a turnover of The criminal justice market has, however, remained 8.5 million.
challenging with a number of projects being deferred and cancelled due to the changing structure of the Home Office and the recent creation of the Ministry of Justice.
Public Services Northgate has built a strong and trusted brand in this % market and we remain dedicated to continuing our sales 2007 2006 Change effort and we are confident that the market will recover Turnover 1 10 03 3.. 4 4m m 102.1m 1% when the new structure of the justice system becomes Divisional Operating Profit 2 20 0.. 0 0m m 19.5m 3% established.
In spite of this difficult market background, the Divisional Operating Margins 1 19 9.. 5 5% % 19.0% 3% team did well with wins including a management information solution for the Office for Criminal Justice Reform in partnership with LogicaCMG: 42 police forces Northgate Public Services returned to growth in the second signing up for a two-year extension to the national half of the year, driven by strong demand for software enforcement solution for Penalty Notices for Disorder and and services from Local Government clients H1 -2.2%: working with Safety Camera Partnerships: including H2 4.5%.
This allowed the division to show overall growth Hertfordshire, Wiltshire and Northumbria, to provide of 1.3% for the full year 2006: 2.6%.
drivers with direct access to evidence from safety cameras through Northgates Public Access service.
3 Net cash outflow, excluding cash and loans acquired.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC THE NEXT STAGE FOR NORTHGATE IS TO MOVE FROM BEING A DOMESTIC UK COMPANY TO A GLOBAL FORCE OPERATING IN MUCH HIGHER GROWTH MARKETS 11 Chief Executives Review continued Managed Services Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council, the launch of an % internet booking service and a further 2 year extension to 2007 2006 Change the existing Managed Services contract with DVA in Turnover 1 12 22 2.. 2 2m m 116.8m 5% Northern Ireland, an IT support contract with Solihull Divisional Operating Profit 1 10 0.. 0 0m m 8.3m 20% Metropolitan Borough Council and new infrastructure Divisional Operating Margins 8 8% % 7% 14% support contracts with Waterways Ireland, Scottish Criminal Records, Strathclyde Police, and Seagate Technologies.
These major wins provide a firm base upon which to achieve the Northgate Managed Services has also seen good progress significant growth that is available in the sector.
Our services revenue has seen strong growth in the second half of the year H1 0.6% H2 12.6% as the effect of 2007 08 Outlook contracts won in our Education business shows through.
This The 2007 08 financial year has started well.
The momentum allowed services revenue to grow by 6.7% for the full year we saw build up in the second half of last year has continued 2006: 6.0%.
Third party product sales continued to decline, into the beginning of this year.
We have invested in growth from 22.4m to 18.0m, as the business focuses on growing businesses such as Link HR Systems and Kendric Ash.
Looking to the 2007 08 financial year, we are confident that this momentum will continue to grow.
In the Education sector, Northgate has enjoyed tremendous progress.
Work commenced in the second half on two Northgate is continuing on the journey we started 7 years significant contracts as one of the first providers of ago that has involved 5 disposals business closures, 20 Information and Communication Technology ICT managed acquisitions and organic growth which has transformed the services and support to the Education sector in Bristol and Companys weak position in January 2000 with negligible Northern Ireland.
The Bristol contract worth 8.9m was the market shares in 8 different market sectors to a focused first of its kind to be signed in the Governments Building business with market-leading positions in each of its three Schools for the Future BSF programme and has firmly businesses.
The next stage for Northgate is to move from established Northgate as a major player in the BSF market.
being a domestic UK company to a global force operating in We now provide managed ICT services to more than 1,100 much higher growth markets.
schools in the UK and have completed the development of Northgates Managed Learning Environment MLE which is a The announcement of the acquisition of ARINSO, which key component of Northgates offering to the BSF market.
completed in the first half of the 2007 08 financial year, signifies a new era for Northgate as it is a unique We have developed a healthy pipeline within the BSF opportunity to secure a global position for Northgates HR programme and have recently announced a contract business.
For the next phase of growth, Northgate will focus extension worth in excess of 15m for work under our Lot 6 on completing the successful integration of ARINSO and contract in Northern Ireland.
continuing to pursue our stated strategy to become a leading player in providing software, outsourcing and IT We are currently shortlisted on a further 7 opportunities, services to the human resources, local government and including holding the preferred bidder status for the public safety markets.
Leicester City Council BSF contract worth 27m.
This is expected to go to contract in the first half of the current 2007 08 promises to be a successful year for Northgate staff, financial year.
the Board, our shareholders and our customers.
The Board remains confident about the outlook for the Group which will The Lot 6 contract in Northern Ireland, worth more than be enhanced by the strong growth prospects of ARINSO.
46m and the largest ever won by the Group, will ultimately provide ICT solutions and ongoing support to 300,000 teachers and school children throughout the Province.
In addition we are pleased to have established a partnership with Fronter as its preferred Virtual Learning Environment VLE supplier.
Chris Stone Other notable new contract wins in this division were a Chief Executive major e-mail systems project for North Tyneside and 4 July 2007 Newcastle City Council, a five-year IT outsource with NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 53% 206.9M OF THE ORDER BOOK WILL BE BOOKED AS REVENUE IN THE CURRENT FINANCIAL YEAR.
NORTHGATES CLIENT RETENTION RATE REMAINS AT OVER 98.5%
