Chief Executives Review Dear shareholder, Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted operating profit 46.7p 92.9 634m $1,262m This year, just as last year, Pearsons results are a record.
Im sure I dont have to tell you that theyre due to the ingenuity and dedication 8% 14% of the 32,000 people who work in Pearson, nearly all of whom are owners of this company just like you.
We all thank you for the trust 46.7p 634m and confidence youve placed in us by investing in the company.
Were proud of the numbers in this report, but they signify something 43.1p 592m more than one good year.
Theyre a trend one more point on a consistent upward march.
That makes them not just a footnote to 34.1p 506m the past, but a source of confidence in the future.
07 07 Our last five years make the point: 27.5p 426m 06 06 05 05 Operating profit has increased from 416m to 631m, at an annual 04 04 27.6p 447m 03 03 growth rate of 15% at constant exchange rates.
Adjusted earnings per share are up from 27.6p to 46.7p, an annual rate of 14%.
Operating cash flow Return on invested capital We have more than doubled the cash we produce from operations, 684m $1,361m 8.2% from 318m to 684m.
19% 0.2% pts The return we make on the capital we invest is up from 6% to 8.2%, and now above our cost of that capital.
684m 8.2% And we have increased the dividend by an average of 6% each year.
In fact, our record of increasing the dividend above the rate of 575m 8.0% inflation is now an unbroken 16 years.
570m 6.7% I hope the consistency is reassuring to you.
Its encouraging to the shareholders who work here, because it validates much of the work 07 07 418m 6.2% 06 weve done to change the company.
We had a few goals in mind as we 06 05 05 did that: we wanted to make Pearson a cohesive company, rather than 04 04 318m 6.0% 03 a collection of companies: a company of reliable and durable financial 03 performance: a company with big growth possibilities: and a leader and innovator in its markets.
Underlying growth As reported before restatement for tax deductibility of goodwill amortisation While weve made great progress toward those goals, were still on the move in that same direction.
We dont see any reason to slow down: Our investment in content has been steady and unrelenting, even and the success so far just makes us want to move faster with a strategy when that has been out of fashion.
In each of the past four years, that investment has topped $1bn.
That strategy has four parts: We sustained our investment in journalism at the Financial Times, even when it was making losses during a savage advertising downturn.
creating the most compelling content: We believed that a brand built on quality for over a century should sustain its editorial values and weather the short-term consequences.
using technology to make our products more useful and And it has: profits at FT publishing were up 85% to 56 million last year.
more valuable: At the newspaper and FT. com our depth of insight in the financial being a truly international company: and markets made us the place to come for news and analysis of the generating the firepower through efficiency to invest in those goals.
mortgage crisis and the global credit crunch, the biggest business story We apply that same strategy across all parts of Pearson.
We refreshed our design and we introduced to our readers numbers tell you that its working: but Id like to show you how with a stable of new writers.
All its wonderful content earned the FT many accolades, from the Newspaper of the Year title to the biggest accolade some highlights from this past year.
of all: a growing audience of readers, in print and online.
Penguin, the UKs Publisher of the Year, made bestsellers of some of the People in the media world used to assert that content is king.
books by the worlds best-known authors and thinkers and created Today many experts would have you believe that technology some new superstars along the way: has staged a bloody coup and taken the throne.
Just as the world was waking up to that global credit crunch, Alan Pearson is still in the court, somewhere in the middle.
Were happy Greenspans The Age of Turbulence came out and was snapped up with our rich history as a content company which stretches back to by one million buyers and bemused investors all over the world.
the first Longman English dictionary of 1725: the forerunners of the No one has done more to explain life in Afghanistan than Khaled current Financial Times in the late 19th Century: and the first Penguin Hosseini, who followed up The Kite Runner with another paperbacks in the 1930s.
But today our challenge is to live up to the wonderful story, A Thousand Splendid Suns, this past year.
creative standards of those illustrious predecessors: and at the same time to make what we do relevant and useful to our customers of And Kim Edwards first novel, The Memory Keepers Daughter, was today.
That brings a slightly different attitude toward content and a bestseller in the US, Canada, Australia and the UK, and a story what we should be doing with it.
that will stick with us for a long time.
4 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Our largest investment of all was in our education business.
Here our and text to get young children inspired about learning maths.
Its a bestsellers might be a little less famous than those in Penguin, but they little too early to know how this new experiment will fare but so far are no less valuable to their readers.
For instance, we had a new edition the teachers are excited, and that means we are too.
of Reading Street, last years leading programme for Americas Digital products like these now account for $1.3bn or about 25% elementary school students.
It helps teachers lay a foundation of our total education sales.
Today Pearson is a technology company, of reading skills and, we hope, inspires children to love reading all as much as we are an education or publishing or media company.
Those kinds of changes are taking place at Penguin, too.
Travel guides, We also extended our programmes that help people of all ages learn for example, are still much in demand, but technology now allows English, enrolling such familiar characters as Donald Duck and Buzz travellers to create their own customised travel guides with Dorling Lightyear in the effort through our worldwide elementary school Kindersley material.
programme, English Adventure, now used in 60 countries from Argentina to Yemen.
And last year we created what we like to refer to as the most written novel in history, a Wikinovel called A Million Penguins that attracted We extended and modernised many of the bestsellers that have online contributions from nearly 1,500 people who made over been central to the learning and understanding of each generation of 11,000 edits.
In Britain, a new Penguin social networking site called college students, in subjects from ancient history to computer science: Spinebreakers is run by teenagers, and its not only inspiring them to fundamentals of biology to applied healthcare: mathematics to read books and write about books: its helping Penguin to get a deeper accounting and finance: creative writing to literature: social science understanding of the reading habits of young people.
Perhaps helped along by these kinds of conversations, online sales of And with our acquisition of Harcourts assessment and testing Penguin books grew rapidly last year, through both our own websites business, we took on some of the most popular and reliable and other online retailers such as Amazon.
assessments of educational skills and intellectual progress, among them the Stanford Achievement Test and the Wechsler Intelligence Scale.
In the Financial Times Group, great content was not confined to pink paper.
We started new features on FT. com like our live markets blog Technology, made central Alphaville and View From the Top, a regular video interview with business leaders.
Monthly unique users of FT. com were up 30%, with Proud as we are of that kind of content, for some years now weve a 2007 average of 5.7 million users.
insisted that it is not enough.
Today our customers expect products and services that are built to meet their needs and easy to use.
Interactive Data, our financial information company, grew its sales by Our education customers, for example, are asking for solutions, 8% as it introduced new services for example, delivering information not textbooks.
Technology helps us create those.
about mergers, tender offers and rights offerings for securities throughout the day.
Meanwhile our new addition Mergermarket For decades, the end-of-term or end-of-year test has come too late for provided must-have intelligence about potential deals for companies, too many students.
If a test can establish how each child is learning, bankers, lawyers and advisers.
Its revenue grew by more than half and and pinpoint where he might be falling behind, why would anyone more than 90% of its customers renewed their subscriptions.
wait until the end of the course to check?
Shouldnt the teacher take that information along the way, analyse it and use it to accelerate the And to that online library of sources, the FT Group added new students learning?
companies Money-Media for the fund management market and Exec-Appointments in the recruitment field.
These moves have not That is precisely the solution that has been our strategy, and a new only given us new growth possibilities, theyve also diversified our generation of our education products provide that.
For college revenues away from print advertising, notoriously vulnerable to students, our MyLabs are online programmes that allow each economic cycles.
In 2000 some 52% of the FT Groups revenue was student to practice new concepts at their own pace, in their own time.
from advertising: now it has just 30%, even though its advertising has The software records their responses to practice test questions and grown in the last few years.
intervenes: if a student shows hes mastered one kind of problem, he moves on quickly: if he seems to be struggling, we slow him down, Flatter, and wiser serve up more practice and help him discover strategies to find the right answers.
In educational jargon, this is known as adaptive Content and technology are big opportunities for us, and were learning: the path to learning is built around the student.
But for a company that is the world leader in learning and information of all kinds from kindergarten children Not surprisingly, demand for these kinds of services is growing very to adults, there may be a bigger opportunity still.
We now cover about 40 of the main disciplines for university-level courses, and students who buy the programmes are really using it While developing countries are home to 80% of the worlds usage has grown 50% a year for the past five years.
And we believe the population, only half the worlds college students come from those opportunity is a worldwide one: these MyLabs are now available in nations.
Globally, adult illiteracy is estimated at around 800 million more than 50 countries.
people and about half the worlds population will be speaking or learning English the global language of business and international And that kind of service is valuable to younger students, too.
In 2006 politics over the next decade.
we unveiled a revolutionary new kind of school programme for California: a digital service allowing teachers to fashion their lessons So, in every part of Pearson, were stepping up our efforts to be a truly from a rich mix of video, audio, class exercises, tests and digital books.
That social studies programme was a huge hit, so this year weve applied a similar approach to mathematics, one of the biggest and most important subjects in any countrys school curriculum.
This new programme, enVisionMATH, blends beautiful graphics, animation 5 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chief Executives Review continued At Penguin, were publishing more books on a worldwide basis at the Our overall profit margin increased last year to 15% from 10.8% same time as we build our presence in fast-growing markets like India, just three years ago reflecting broad margin improvement across China and parts of Africa.
Last year, Penguin announced plans to every business.
publish its first Penguin Classics in Mandarin.
Meanwhile, weve taken And by reducing the cash thats tied up in our businesses, we lowered Jiang Rongs Wolf Totem a huge bestseller in China and the winner of our working capital-to-sales ratio for the sixth straight year to 25.6% the inaugural Man Booker Asian Literary Prize and were publishing last year compared to 31.9% in 2001. it in English around the world this year.
During our celebration of Penguins 20th anniversary in India last The numbers, and more year, we agreed on a strategy to invest heavily in that country, as a Our goal has been to create a kind of virtuous circle to take those vibrant source of writing talent and as a centre for high-quality efficiency savings and to invest them in the kind of content, technology publishing services like design, technology and software development, and international expansion that can sustain our growth.
So far, that many of which we already use in our business around the world.
circle is spinning nicely, and were determined to move it faster.
This kind of international outlook features heavily on every page of the But as weve said many times before, our goal as a company goes Financial Times.
Its whole mission in life is international: to explain beyond those financial targets, as crucial as they are to our continued and illuminate business, finance and politics in a global context.
In a company like ours, our profits endure and grow as the That attitude sets the FT apart both editorially and commercially.
result of our seeing the broader picture working for a broader purpose than profits.
Whether that is helping a child learn to read: In circulation, last year the US overtook the UK as the FTs biggest helping a teacher inspire her class: helping a business person single market.
I know of only one other newspaper anywhere in the understand the markets and make good decisions about them: world, The Economist, which has achieved the feat of selling more helping a professional move on in his career: helping a talented copies outside its home market than inside.
In advertising, we are writer to find her voice and her audience.
Helping people make providing global companies the ability to talk to the worlds senior progress in their lives.
decision-makers in business and politics on a worldwide basis and thats a valuable niche.
That explains the consistent increase in the Were extremely proud of what we accomplished in 2007, in FTs advertising for each of the past three years.
improving both our financial performance and our customers lives.
And were confident that the steps we took last year to bolster all our In education, we have steadily grown the sales and profits of our strategies will yield even more in 2008.
That is the kind of progress we international meaning non-US businesses.
Weve had particular can all look forward to celebrating.
success in English Language Teaching through the world-famous Longman brand: in investing in local editions of our major textbook programmes for school, college and professional students: in school testing in the UK through Edexcel and in professional qualifications and testing worldwide: and in digital programmes.
This past year we accelerated that strategy through the acquisition of the Harcourt International education businesses.
That makes us the Marjorie Scardino, Chief executive leading school publishing company in the UK, and it extends our strong positions in key markets including Australia, New Zealand and South Africa.
Meanwhile eCollege, our recently-acquired online distance learning company, has a big opportunity to become international now that it is a part of our worldwide education business.
Altogether, our education businesses outside America had sales of close to $2bn this past year and we believe the worldwide demand for skills and learning can keep pushing that number higher.
Leaner, and stronger We have the firepower to do all this invest in high-quality content, innovative technology and international expansion for one reason.
Pearson has become much more efficient in the way we do business because weve become a cohesive company.
Today we have a strong centralised operations structure, in charge of quality and efficiency in a whole range of centrally-purchased and administered services across technology, property, warehousing, distribution, printing and many other areas.
In some markets our book publishing companies operate as one business.
In almost every one they now share warehouses and distribution and anything else they can.
So while sales growth was strong last year, up an underlying 6%, increased efficiency meant that profit growth was especially rapid, up 14%, with excellent results across all our businesses.
On an underlying basis, adjusted operating profit rose 9% in education, 20% at Penguin and 30% at the FT Group.
6 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007
