Business review Chief Executive Ofcers review of operations ARM has a unique position in the global semiconductor industry.
We are the leading intellectual property IP provider, designing processor and physical IP and related technology that is used by most of the chip manufacturers in the world.
In last years annual report, I wrote ARM has a unique position in the increasing numbers of people about the important role that ARM global semiconductor industry.
We everywhere, yet billions of people plays in the development of an are the leading intellectual property still do not have access to a mobile increasingly digital world.
As we IP provider, designing processor phone.
This number is likely to celebrate our tenth year as a public and physical IP and related diminish rapidly as mobile networks company, our goal remains the same technology that is used by most of expand and cost of the technology as it was a decade ago to generate the chip manufacturers in the world.
reduces, bringing mobile technology returns for our shareholders by As a whole, the industry has annual to an ever wider audience.
providing the technology at the heart revenues of nearly $300 billion and of the digital world to the leading in 2007 grew at about 3%.
Over the The growing momentum behind semiconductor companies.
Today, medium term, because of ARMs more intelligent phones has peoples lives are being made easier, position and unique business model, accelerated in 2007, with the arrival safer and more efficient through the we expect to maintain revenue of a new generation of highly increasing use of digital electronics growth at a multiple of the industry.
sophisticated smartphones that in everyday products.
contain even more features, such ARM is in your mobile phone as graphics, video and connectivity ARM technology is at the heart of to WiFi and GPS, turning the mobile 90% of the worlds mobile phones.
phone into a mobile internet device In some developing countries lowMID.
These devices can contain cost phones can be purchased for five or more separate ARM products.
as little as $25, thereby helping to drive the number of subscribers Technology in the high-end to more than three billion globally.
smartphone quickly spreads into ARM is enabling the technology that the rest of the market.
The average allows the wireless communications, mobile phone is already becoming the user interface and the audio to more feature-rich and personalised.
run on a single semiconductor chip You can now choose your phone thus signicantly lowering the cost based on the camera specications, of producing the phone itself.
audio and video playback quality, gaming, or on design for elegance, Mobile phones are becoming an coolness or fun all being enabled essential everyday device for by technology from ARM.
Of the 13 billion microprocessor-based chips shipped in 2007, nearly three billion contained ARM processors.
ARM Holdings plc 11 Business review UGOBE PLEO DINOSAUR Chief Executive Ofcers review of operations The ARM Powered Ugobe Pleo continued Dinosaur is a robotic dinosaur based on the Camarasaurus.
Each one begins life as a newly-hatched baby Camarasaurus and is able to feel hunger and fatigue, sleep, graze, walk about on his own and get urges to explore and be nurtured.
Pleo uses two ARM processors: one as a brain, acting as his mind and setting his mood: the other handling video and audio input, i. e. what Pleo sees and hears.
ARMs success in mobile devices has been accelerated through the ecosystem we have developed to remove cost and complexity from the development process.
One of the major areas for new product development is the MID.
To enable the MID ecosystem, we work with leading semiconductor companies such as Broadcom, Marvell, Qualcomm, Samsung and Texas Instruments to ensure that they can maximise the performance of the ARM processors in their chips.
We work with software companies such as Adobe and Microsoft to ensure that their software runs efficiently on ARM technology-based chips.
We also work with content providers such as Disney, Google and Electronic Arts so that the end-product, the mobile phone, gives a superb user experience.
ARM believes that only through working together with the enable chips that are low cost to industry leaders is it possible to create develop and consume less power, a truly mobile internet.
No one we are enabling many more company can do this alone.
ARM is in your other digital products The fastest growing market for ARM ARM technology is ideally suited is in microcontrollers that go into a to act as the brain of a broad range wide range of electronic devices from of electronic devices beyond mobile washing machines to air-conditioning phones.
Since ARM technology can units to toys.
ARM processors have In 2007, nearly two billion ARM technology-based chips were shipped inside mobile phones.
12 ARM Holdings plc been used in microcontrollers for ARM is one of the great dark horses of many years, but the recent drive to make household devices more computing, hardly known outside the industry energy efficient has required yet far outselling Intel in the number of cores increased intelligence to be built into many more products in the home.
sold each year because its designs are used For example, a modern intelligent washing machine can use less than in a wider variety of devices not least mobile 50% of the energy of an older model.
Intelligent lighting systems can save 40% of the energy consumed.
With many ARM technology-based chips Article: How dark-horse ARM could help Linux making the home a more intelligent and wean Apple off toys and efficient place, ARM is seeing its royalty revenue increase as a result.
Source: Clive Akass, Personal Computer The use of ARM technology-based World Magazine chips in cars is increasing.
In Europe and the US, most cars sold today already contain at least one ARM processor, probably more.
ARM is used in 60% of anti-lock braking systems, 40% of airbags and 40% of intelligent batteries.
ARM processors are also used in many other components throughout the car including dashboard display, chassis control and engine management systems.
On average, every car sold in 2007 contained 1.6 ARM to extend the market breadth to The future processors that is nearly 100 million include ARMs traditional customers After a decade as a public company, ARM technology-based chips.
the largest semiconductor ARM is looking forward to the next manufacturers in the world.
These ten years with confidence.
We have Toys are also becoming increasingly companies are always pushing the established a strong position as a interactive and therefore need the boundaries of modern manufacturing supplier into the large and growing intelligence to be able to respond capability.
This is very expensive and mobile phone industry.
We are using to their play mates.
Ugobes Pleo ARM saw the opportunity for them to that base to develop the business dinosaur is a recent example of out-source some of the development further in the growing number of an autonomous toy that learns, of their physical IP.
markets for digital products where explores and even develops its own intelligence is becoming increasingly personality through interaction with Over the last three years ARM important.
PIPD is now well positioned its environment.
Pleo has two ARM has evolved the PIPD business to achieve profitable growth as the technology-based chips embedded and product portfolio to become largest semiconductor companies within it enabling Pleo to think, a viable IP provider to the market increasingly look to out-source the sense and move.
We have developed new development of physical IP.
The technology and products for the Companys market-leading position, Physical IP Division expanding latest manufacturing processes for broad technology portfolio and cashthe ARM business model our customers to evaluate.
In 2007, generative business model make ARM ARMs physical IP is a key we have already seen orders from a unique investment opportunity.
technology that allows the chips our target customers and we expect design to be implemented in the this to accelerate in 2008. manufacturing process.
It enables our customers to build low cost, When ARM acquired Artisan we highly-efficient chips.
stated that it would take four to Warren East seven years before the marketChief Executive officer ARM obtained the Physical IP Division leading semiconductor companies PIPD through the acquisition of would be regularly licensing physical Artisan at the end of 2004.
We remain on track to to acquisition, Artisan mainly achieve this.
provided physical IP to the many small companies that did not have the capability to develop physical IP in-house.
ARMs vision for PIPD is There are an average of 1.7 ARM processors per mobile phone.
