Chief Executives Review Delivery and development It has been an exciting year of progress in all business development team, an engineering task three divisions which has translated into a strong force or a marketing project group speaks with many financial performance, particularly after absorbing accents, is familiar with many European cultures, increased fuel prices and substantial bidding costs and can tap into a wealth of knowledge to respond to, for three UK rail franchises.
Demand for our services and sometimes lead, a changing world.
has grown strongly across Europe in 2007, as Innovative real-time information systems pioneered in demonstrated by the growth in our order book.
Denmark helped us win a contract in Sweden by Higher demand goes hand in hand with increasing showing how we can maintain trains more effectively, passenger expectations for safe, reliable and timely and are now being considered for use in the UK, whilst services.
That challenge, shared between operators train maintenance best practice in Portugal has and transport authorities, is best met by working influenced the spread of efficient overnight maintenance together to improve delivery, a challenge we are happy across the group.
Our experience using biodiesel in to meet.
our Berlin bus and rail operations has increased our know-how for running buses in the UK and Portugal As our transport networks spread across Europe, we on biodiesel blends.
are increasingly thinking and acting like a network organisation.
When we enter a new market the Whether in the form of better services, lower prices, accumulated learning and experience of our new improved customer satisfaction or a quicker payback colleagues is connected, not just to a central UK on investment, the benefits of such cross-fertilisation corporate base, but to every Arriva business in every flow to our passengers and tendering authority country where we operate.
Our passengers, our customers, to our employees, and to our investors.
employees and our investors all now benefit from a We aim to be amongst the top three private operators web of relationships amongst our 40,000 people.
Our strong financial results are The transfer of best practice, the spread of innovation built on a year of excellent operational performance and the achievement of scale economies are no across the group, and there is much to be pleased longer piped thinly between small, far-away outposts about in all three divisions.
and a dominant, central UK hub.
Today, a typical Arriva 20 | A Journey in Time Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 A year of exciting progress Divisional results Mainland Europe As expected, mainland Europe is now the groups largest Revenue Operating Profit 2007 2006 2007 2006 division, recording the seventh consecutive year of double-digit m m m m increase in revenue.
Mainland Europe 927.5 752.3 64.5 56.1 UK Trains 322.4 253.9 7.5 12.3 The growth in revenue and operating profit in the year has come Central - - 17.1 13.6 from acquisitions, investments, contract wins and start-ups.
The full 2,064.6 1,769.0 142.8 130.8 year impact of investment in the associate company Barraqueiro Associated companies SGPS SA Barraqueiro was positive, but the divisional operating - Mainland Europe 63.9 40.0 7.4 4.1 profit margin was diluted by the low operating margin acquisitions of Osthannoversche Eisenbahnen AG OHE in Germany and Continuing operations 2,000.7 1,729.0 135.4 126.7 Veolias bus operations in Denmark, which have considerable scope for improvements.
Higher fuel costs and bid costs Goodwill incurred in tendering for the Oresund rail contract in Scandinavia impairment and also had some impact.
The order book for mainland Europe, intangible asset amortisation - - 7.4 7.2 reflecting estimated revenue over the life of the contracted business, based on prices at the 2007 year end, has grown by Group revenue and 18 per cent, to 4.0 billion.
operating profit 2,000.7 1,729.0 128.0 119.5 Including share of associated companies revenue and operating profit 21 Chief Executives Review continued Germany Netherlands Operations in Germany have delivered significant growth in 2007, Revenue rose slightly by four per cent to 178.5 million 2006: with revenue up 80 per cent to 219.2 million 2006: 121.7 172.1 million, reflecting the net impact of won and lost contracts million.
Included in these results is revenue of 81.1 million and in the Dutch market.
operating profit of 2.2 million from OHE, which we acquired in 2007 was the first full year of the 12-year DAV bus and rail contract March 2007.
OHE operates more than 400 buses and started in December 2006 in the central Dordrecht region.
A30 passenger rail in Lower Saxony, as well as rail infrastructure, million 22 million investment in these operations will see the road and rail freight and port storage.
A break-even business on introduction of seven new electric trains by December 2008.
We acquisition, OHE has integrated well and is performing as have also invested16 million 11 million in new buses for the expected.
Through its passenger rail subsidiary, Metronom, OHE eight-year bus contract we began operating in the East Brabant is entering the next phase of growth after commencing two new region in January 2007, and have increased patronage following franchises in December 2007, with combined lifetime revenue the introduction of a new timetable.
OHE provides much potential for future growth in both passenger transport and rail Over the course of 2006 and 2007 we started running 43 new freight.
trains as part of the 15-year contract to operate rail services in the provinces of Groningen and Friesland, significantly boosting Tender successes in 2006 have resulted in mobilisation of a number passenger numbers, and as a result expect to receive further of other contracts.
In December 2007, we began operation of two funding for the introduction of three more new trains this year.
10-year rail contracts in southern Germany, with combined expected lifetime revenue of approximately370 million 270 In January 2008, we started operating the Hoeksche Waard million.
In the same month we started a seven-year bus and Goeree Overflakkee bus contract to the south of contract near Frankfurt, and ODEG, in which we have a 50 per Rotterdam, adjacent to our DAV operations.
The seven-year cent interest, started a small two-year rail contract.
contract, won in July 2007, has a one-year extension option, and is expected to generate lifetime revenue of approximately In December 2007 and January 2008 we won three further bus 150 million 110 million.
contracts, starting in the Frankfurt area later this year, with a combined lifetime revenue of approximately38 million 28 Scandinavia million.
In December 2008, ODEG will start operating the 10-year Growth in our Swedish operations helped revenue rise three per Spree-Neisse rail contract, in the east of the country, and in cent in 2007, to 242.4 million 2006: 234.9 million, excluding December 2009, we are due to start operating a 12-year rail Veolia Denmark.
The acquisition, in August, of Veolias Danish contract in southern Germany, as part of a 50 50 joint venture business added a further 27.8 million to revenue.
We are pleased with our growing presence in the Swedish market.
In 2007 we strengthened management capacity to facilitate our Our first Swedish rail contract started smoothly in June.
The future growth in Germany.
We will continue to consolidate our nine-year contract, will generate lifetime revenue of approximately businesses, mobilise new contracts, and bid for new work, in SEK 1.8 billion 146 million.
In December we were awarded two addition to pursuing a range of acquisition and investment bus contracts in Stockholm, which are scheduled to start later this opportunities.
Together the two five-year contracts, with five-year extension options, will have a total fleet of 164 buses, and lifetime revenue of approximately SEK 1.5 billion 122 million.
We have also retained and increased our existing operations in the Jnkping area for another eight years, with a tender won in October 2007.
The contract adds extra routes starting in June 2008, and lifetime revenue of approximately SEK 995 million 81 million.... seventh consecutive year of double-digit revenue growth in mainland Europe 22 | A Journey in Time Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Eastern Europe The contracting environment in Denmark has been challenging Revenue from the Czech Republic and Poland was 7.4 million for a number of years and there was an underlying decline in in 2007. the scale of our activities in the Danish bus market as low After entering the Czech Republic in December 2006 with the margins persisted.
The acquisition of the loss-making Veolia acquisition of Transcentrum Bus s. r. o. we strengthened our bus division in Denmark, the second largest operator, has position around Prague with the acquisition of Bosak Bus s. r. o. given us the opportunity to consolidate our operations, and Osnado Spol s. r. o. in January and November 2007 optimise the location of our facilities, implement synergies and respectively.
Bosak operates 50 buses, and Osnado 106 buses.
Veolias services, and 640 buses, are now fully integrated into Arriva Scandinavia creating the strongest In December, Arriva began rail operations in Poland as part of and largest public transport group in the country.
Our market the PCC Arriva 50 50 joint venture.
The small three-year contract share is unlikely to remain at current levels, but we anticipate in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region in the north-west of Poland was improved profitability in future, as unprofitable contracts expire the first to be awarded to a private company, and could signal and margins improve as we bid for new contracts.
the start of a significant market change in the country.
After some initial challenges, we are pleased with operations and the There is a range of growth prospects in Scandinavia, and in foothold we have secured in this emerging market.
The contract particular we will continue to grow our bus operations in Sweden is expected to generate approximately PLN 105 million 22 million in 2008. over its lifetime.
Italy We are sowing the seeds for future expansion in Eastern Europe, Revenue, including share of associates, rose seven per cent to where investment is currently relatively modest, but we foresee 146.8 million 2006: 137.8 million at our Italian operations.
excellent potential as these economies develop and market In September 2007, Arriva strengthened its position as the liberalisation proceeds.
largest wholly private bus operator in the Italian market with the acquisition of 49 per cent of SPT Linea, for6.8 million 4.6 UK UK B Bus us million, as part of a 50 50 joint venture with Lombardy-based A strong trading performance from the UK bus business is bus and rail operator Ferrovie Nord Milano Group FNM SpA.
reflected in an operating profit increase of 16 per cent to 87.9 SPT Linea which operates 317 buses in the Lombardy region million 2006: 76.0 million, on revenue of 814.7 million of northern Italy, was previously wholly publicly owned.
In 2006: 762.8 million, up seven per cent.
Margins increased to January 2008, we increased our shareholding in Brescia- 10.8 per cent, despite the impact of fuel price increases that cost based bus company SAIA Trasporti Capital to 100 per cent.
UK Regions The tender process in Italy is expected to accelerate as the The regional bus business has benefited from rigorous and market moves towards competitive tendering, and Arriva is detailed network development.
By understanding the varying needs well placed to use its strong network of relationships and of different customer profiles we have sharpened our networks growing credentials.
and services to match demand, stimulating passenger growth, Iberia and implementing targeted revisions to fares.
Over the course Operations in Spain and Portugal have reported revenue, of the year, we invested some 30 million providing many including share of associates, up 23 per cent to 105.4 million easy-access buses for the comfort and convenience of our 2006: 85.8 million, reflecting the full year effect of the 21.5 passengers.
In 2007 we carried 414 million passengers, per cent stake in Barraqueiro acquired in May 2006. demonstrating encouraging patronage growth of approximately two per cent.
In January 2008, we acquired a further 10 per cent of Barraqueiro, Overall customer satisfaction rose, with 91 per cent expressing the leading Portuguese passenger transport operator for50 themselves fairly satisfied or better, with 59 per cent of those million 37 million, taking our holding to 31.5 per cent.
This questioned very or extremely satisfied, the highest rating investment includes an option to re-integrate our Lisbon operation achieved to date.
TST, laying a path for further developing Arrivas involvement in Portugals evolving public transport market.
Arrivas share of Innovative partnership working continues to bring benefits for post-tax profit of Barraqueiro in 2007 was 2.9 million.
The Fastrack scheme in conjunction with Kent County Council has seen patronage growth of 22 per In Spain, we consolidated our strategic position around Madrid cent, in its first year of operation with 19 per cent of this reflecting with the acquisition of two small bus operators in 2007. conversion from car users.
In Portugal we are reinforcing our position ahead of a potential A series of local marketing initiatives are currently on trial to increase market-changing move to tendering of routes in the metropolitan passenger journeys further by boosting awareness of routes and areas of Lisbon and Oporto.
In Spain, the expiry of concessions services.
In Telford we are using smart-card technology to test a with exclusive rights accelerates into 2013, bringing new new customer loyalty scheme.
In February 2008, we launched a opportunity, in addition to the possibility of competitive tendering trial to test a new generation of mobile phone ticketing technology in cities like Madrid where we have established a position.
on 14 of our Fastrack B buses in Kent, enabling customers to purchase tickets quickly and easily via their mobile phones, providing the added benefit of cash-free travel.
23 23 Chief Executives Review continued UK Trains We remain committed to developing and investing in technology After absorbing significant bid costs from the concurrent for more eco-friendly vehicles.
In October, we introduced the UKs tendering of three rail franchises, the UK Trains divisional first Environmentally Enhanced Vehicle buses into our Midlands operating profit reduced to 7.5 million 2006: 12.3 fleet.
In the north-east we started a trial of B20 biodiesel giving a million.
Revenue increased 27 per cent, to 322.4 million 20 per cent reduction in net CO2 emissions.
A trial of cab-based 2006: 253.9 million, following the inclusion of the new technology to help drivers improve fuel consumption is also CrossCountry franchise from 11 November 2007. under way.
We intend to deploy these initiatives further if the Excluding CrossCountry, revenue was down two per cent encouraging initial results are sustained.
This reduction in revenue reflects the end, as expected, of an external maintenance contract, During the year we acquired small operations in Staffordshire and partially offset by rising passenger numbers.
In January 2008 we announced the acquisition of UK AIM-listed bus, coach and airside passenger transport operator CrossCountry Tellings Golden Miller Group, which will complement our airside The CrossCountry franchise win has an estimated order passenger services in Germany Frankfurt and Italy Bergamo.
book of almost 5 billion in real terms.
Operational performance since starting the franchise has been good We continue to contribute to the Local Transport Bill debate, with 88.9 per cent of services arriving on time for the year and welcome the process of dialogue on the development of to date, substantially better than the equivalent services for ideas and proposals to improve effective partnership working the same period last year.
Year-on-year revenue was more between operators and local authorities.
than nine per cent up for the first two months of 2008, on the basis of our best like-for-like estimate for the remapped London franchise.
Arriva is one of the largest bus operators in London, with annual mileage in 2007 exceeding 62 million miles.
The business has Serving 131 stations over more than 1,650 route miles, done well to continue to make progress while mitigating the CrossCountry is the most geographically extensive rail disruptive impact of street works, affecting much of its north franchise in the UK, and adds 91 train sets and 1,650 London operating area.
people to our UK Trains division.
Annual revenue of around 600 million is expected, with support payments to Arriva An increase in contracted mileage of four per cent, reflects four higher in the early years of the franchise, and reducing new contracts started in 2007.
Three new contracts are due to over time.
start in 2008, and with additional buses on other routes, scheduled mileage in London is due to increase by a further The CrossCountry franchise revenue is currently around 50 four per cent this year.
We expect market growth of 40 per cent per cent derived from passengers, and 50 per cent from by 2025, from 2007 levels, in line with Transport for Londons franchise support payments.
The average passenger TfL 2025 Vision.
journey length on this franchise is 130 miles, reflecting its broad-based nature and the many hubs along the route.
Arriva London finished the final quarter of the year strongly, appearing in the top three TfL contractors for service reliability.
We are making good progress with our plans for the We continue to have a positive relationship with TfL and were franchise.
The seating capacity of the fleet will be pleased that Brixton garage was awarded the London Bus increased by 35 per cent on principal routes at peak times, Garage of the Year award, following an independent nomination by June 2009, through the introduction of five fully from TfL.
The worlds first hybrid double-decker bus, on trial for refurbished high speed trains and additional seats on the TfL over the last 12 months, is running reliably with improved Voyager trains.
We are committed to improving the customer experience In August 2007 we added 10 new buses to The Original Tour of rail by enhancing website ticket purchasing, interactive London sightseeing business and opened a visitor centre in customer itinerary management, automated re-booking, Trafalgar Square.
The business recovered impressively from a flexible printing options and the ability to reserve a seat up disappointing wet summer, managing to attract significant numbers to 10 minutes before departure.
of visitors during the autumn, to end 2007 with record passenger numbers, and patronage up eight per cent on the previous year.
UK Bus & Coach distribution Our Bus & Coach distribution business has performed well, contributing operating profit of 3.1 million 2006: 3.0 million, to the divisional operating profit, on revenue of 9.9 million 2006: 12.3 million.
24 24 | | A A Journey Journey in in Time Time Arriva Arriva plc plc Annual Annual Report Report & & Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 Arriva Trains Wales Out Outllook ook Arriva Trains Wales ATW continues to experience strong Our businesses throughout Europe have a track record of demand, reporting passenger growth of 9.3 per cent.
In demonstrating the real benefits the private sector can bring to addition to growing customer numbers, customer public transport.
Public authorities are increasingly aware of satisfaction is also rising, up five per cent to 85 per cent, these benefits and recognising the opportunity to improve the according to the latest Passenger Focus National value of available services whilst eliminating unnecessary costs.
This recognition is a strong force behind the continuing march of market liberalisation, providing Arriva with many exciting ATW achieved a record operational performance.
December 2007, the year to date Public Performance Measure PPM, based on the percentage of franchised At our mainland Europe investor day, in May 2007, we announced passenger trains arriving at their destination within five the intention to double mainland Europe revenue from 2006 minutes of schedule, increased to 91.8 per cent, up from levels in five years, including our share of associated companies 87.1 per cent in 2006. revenue.
I am pleased to say we are well on the way to achieving this goal with the work already done in 2007 and so far in 2008.
The ATW franchise revenue is currently around 30 per cent derived from passengers, and 70 per cent from In our UK Bus division we look forward to further profitable growth non-passenger revenue, primarily from franchise support driven by route revitalisation and marketing initiatives, and to an payments.
The average journey length on this franchise improved environment for partnership working once the Local is 17.4 miles, reflecting the mix of urban rail network in Transport Bill completes its passage.
south Wales and business orientated travel in north In our UK Trains division we look forward to the benefits of a Wales and north-west England.
The introduction of new full year contribution from our CrossCountry franchise and to ticket machines to make it easier for passengers to building on our strong operational performance, with additional purchase tickets, and ticket barriers at 12 key stations, capacity in due course helping to meet strong demand.
have significantly reduced ticketless travel.
Across the group we will continue to pursue growth in our existing ATW continues to work closely with the Welsh Assembly businesses, as well as creating opportunities for further expansion Government.
There has been significant government into additional markets, while the full benefits of recent successes investment to provide longer platforms, which will enable in growing our operations will be demonstrated in 2008.
Our ATW to run longer trains at some time in the future.
Rail financial strength, order book, diversified portfolio of operations investment from the government is also playing a key role and geographical spread show the qualities of a robust, resilient in regeneration, demonstrated by the opening of a new business poised for further success.
station at Llanharan in south Wales in December 2007, and the fact that in February 2008, ATW started running David Martin train services to Ebbw Valley for the first time in 40 years.
Chief Executive Central Central costs this year include the 1.4 million arrangement fee for the new five-year 615 million revolving credit facility, signed in early August.
resilient business poised for further success 25
