QinetiQ Group plc 04 Annual Report 2007 Chief Executive Of cers review Performance overview QinetiQ continued to make good Revenue increased 9.3% to 1,149.5m and underlying operating progress during the year and delivered pro t increased 16.9% to 106.0m.
Equally importantly our order robust financial performance in line intake increased 48.6% to 1,214.0m.
The Group Net cash in ow from operating activities of 94.1m 2006: 83.3m executed against its strategy and re ects the investment made in growing product businesses such progressed key contract opportunities as TALON and Tarsier, together with a temporary build in working capital in the UK defence business across the year end which in the year.
reversed early in the new financial year as expected.
Underlying earnings per share increased by 10.4% to 11.3p per ordinary share.
We propose to increase the final dividend to shareholders to 2.45p per share, an 8.9% increase over last year, resulting in a total dividend for the year of 3.65p per share.
Delivering against our strategy Maintain and build existing relationships QinetiQ is the MODs second largest UK supplier and the MOD remains the Groups largest customer accounting for 584.5m 50.8% of revenue in FY07 FY06: 595.8m: 56.7%.
Our services to the MOD include research, technology design and insertion, technical advice, systems engineering, systems integration, training and simulation and test and evaluation.
The strength of the working partnership we have with the MOD is evidenced through the volume and value of new contracts won in the year.
We play key roles on many of the MODs most important programmes and were awarded a three-year extension to the Typhoon Euro ghter support contract worth up to 53m as well as securing an important position in the next generation Taranis unmanned air vehicle programme, which will build on our previous signi cant research in autonomy and low observable systems.
Our role as a key partner for the MOD is further reinforced in the wider MOD research arena where, as this funding is increasingly opened to full competition, we have continued to win more than half of the research contracts for which we have competed.
Within the LTPA our composite performance scoring for the year to March 2007 has risen to 94.3% FY06: 91.6% which is an important demonstration of our continuing focus on customer needs as we move towards the second five-year term of the LTPA in 2008.
QinetiQ Group plc 05 Annual Report 2007 Further penetrate established defence markets Strengthen our North American presence Our strategy has been to use our strong position in research and QinetiQ North America QNA delivered underlying organic revenue advisory services as a platform to expand into technology supply growth of 14.2% in the year.
In particular, we have seen high and further large scale services contracts.
We have seen strong demand for the TALON robot and associated spares with now over continued growth of 11.4% in orders and 7.6% in revenue in 1,000 units shipped.
Order ow for TALON continues to be strong Technology Supply with the contract to supply the command and with a further $26m order con rmed in April 2007.
We believe that control system for the MODs CUTLASS robotics programme to our growth opportunities in North America remain robust as we are Remotec UK an example of research work being pulled through into positioned in the technology-rich end of the services market with product supply.
Our proven track record in delivering large scale, strong customer relationships.
Our IT services business is proving technology-led managed services programmes to the MOD has been resilient in the face of US Government budget pressures due to the a valuable contributor in our successful bid for the Defence Training technical differentiators we offer and the long-standing customer Rationalisation DTR programme.
We continue to work with the relationships we hold with defence and security agencies.
During MOD to agree the final scope of DTR and progress through to the year we made signi cant progress in building the QNA financial close.
Additionally we reached financial close on the management team to drive the development of an integrated 20-year Combined Aerial Target System CATS enhancing the QinetiQ business in North America with the recruitment of Duane service currently provided under the LTPA.
Andrews as CEO of the North American business.
Duane brings extensive experience to our QNA management team through both We believe that many of the services that we provide within the his industry experience and his extensive knowledge of the US UK also can be delivered in other overseas locations.
To facilitate this Government defence procurement process.
focus on building out into defence markets outside the UK and the The acquisitions announced during the year of Ocean Systems US we have established a new Europe, Middle East and Australasia Engineering Corporation OSEC, Analex and ITS have established EMEA region and are pleased that Clive Richardson has joined from a business with over 5,000 employees and pro forma turnover in BAE Systems to lead this part of our business.
The EMEA region, excess of $900m last year, which we believe is a signi cant platform which comprises all of our existing non-US operations, except for from which we can deliver new, larger revenue opportunities.
By our Ventures activities, will use our well established UK platform to integrating our US businesses and exploiting synergies with our UK develop the provision of these services globally.
capabilities we are already seeing increased success in addressing Apply our technologies to commercial markets larger US programmes than was previously possible.
For example, Our Ventures team is focused on identifying and developing QinetiQ Analex has taken us into important new territory with its focus on technologies for which signi cant potential commercial markets mission critical software and systems engineering, which will form exist, and growing these opportunities into pro table businesses.
the basis of a new business stream, Mission Solutions.
At any given time we expect to have a portfolio of up to 20 such Acquire strong companies edgling businesses in various stages of development.
A feature of We continually evaluate a substantial pipeline of acquisition all our Ventures is that we are introducing new technology, and this opportunities globally and aim to continue enhancing our means that there are often changes required to customer systems capabilities and geographic reach through selective acquisitions and processes, which has contributed to slower growth than was at reasonable prices.
For example, Tarsier has progressed during the year with the Vancouver system now operationally live, the Dubai People installation in planning, and trial systems being installed at Heathrow Our most important asset is our people and the successful delivery and Providence, Rhode Island.
As a result of customer feedback, we of all aspects of our strategy is dependent on the high level of are incorporating a camera system alongside the Tarsier unit which commitment and professionalism which they consistently show.
should, we believe, enhance future order ow.
Across the wider We thank and congratulate all our staff on their success in Ventures portfolio a variety of routes to accelerate value creation delivering another year of strong performance for the Group.
continue to be explored, with a drive to inject more management and financial resource, and to nd valuable partners to help take We continually review the development opportunities open to products to market.
staff, and invest in new programmes where appropriate.
We have, for example, recently launched the Competing to Win intensive In addition to the Ventures portfolio we continue to win business training programme, designed to help our key contributors in adjacent commercial markets for our services and products.
become even more effective in leading and winning major new Revenue in our Security & Dual Use sector grew by 5.9% excluding business opportunities.
the impact of non-recurring Liquid Crystal Display LCD revenues in 2006 driven by new revenues such as the optical foot measuring We also keep remuneration and bene t packages under constant gauge developed and sold to Clarks, the shoe retailer.
review, and have used our listing on the public markets to introduce competitive reward structures, including equity based incentives.
QinetiQ Group plc 06 Annual Report 2007 Chief Executive Of cers review continued Future prospects Five year summary Going forward our strategy remains consistent with previous plans, and the focus is on execution.
In the UK defence market we believe that the rapidly changing needs of our defence and security forces can only be met by the kind of agile and innovative technological services in which QinetiQ specialises.
In the short to medium term the effect on revenues of the introduction of competition into the MOD Research funding will cloud the overall bene t from continued growth in Technology 03 04 05 06 07 Supply.
Demand for our consultancy and advisory services to the MOD remains robust, and we are developing an important new Revenue m business in systems engineering and integration.
We look forward to entering the second five-year period of the 25-year LTPA with con dence.
Signi cant incremental growth in the UK defence managed service business will be driven from the expected financial close of both packages of DTR in late 2008 early 2009.
In North America our positioning as a technology-rich provider across a wide and deep customer base provides us with the platform 03 04 05 06 07 to continue to grow at rates above the overall increases predicted in US DoD budgets in the medium term.
Additionally, the high end Underlying operating nature of our service offerings will provide us with a signi cant pro t m degree of insulation from the impact of future US Government budget pressures.
Commercial markets for services and products for our Ventures businesses present a tremendous opportunity for the Group.
We aim to grow these businesses into pro table contributors to the Group and to seek external partners and funders to support their development as appropriate.
03 04 05 06 07 We look forward to the coming year with con dence that our robust Employees at 31 March business model, the quality and commitment of our people and the strength and depth of our customer relationships provide us with a platform for continued growth in our core defence and security markets, together with increasing success in taking our technology into other markets of global signi cance.
