18 Chief executives review Our production for the year was in line with that of For Randgold Resources the 2006 and we have told investors that 2008 will also be a relatively flat year in output terms but that past year was one of production is scheduled to step up in 2009 and building, with the Loulo 2010, reaching the targeted 600 000 ounces in 2011. underground development We can report full achievement or satisfactory progress and the Tongon feasibility on each of these fronts in spite of some difficulties study as the key priorities.
Also on managements radar Another strong performance from Loulo almost made up for a shortfall at Morila and brought us to within were cost management, the a whisker of our forecast production.
The underground hunt for profitable new development battled through some very poor ground but then picked up speed and is now within reach growth opportunities and of the first ore. We have assumed operational responsibility for the joint venture at Morila.
We the need to address the advanced the Tongon project to a point where the situation at Morila.
board has decided to proceed with the projects development.
With Tongon now clearly designated as our third new mine, the recently discovered Massawa in Senegal has moved to the front of the advanced prospect line in a new country.
A number of items impacted on our financial results: the lower-than-expected contribution from Morila: a US$3.2 million tax adjustment there: the cost of stepping up production at Loulo: and an increase of US$7.1 million in exploration and corporate expenditure, mainly related to Tongon.
Had it not been for these factors, net profit would have exceeded the previous years US$50.9 million.
As it was, the profit was still a healthy US$45.6 million.
Given the circumstances, this was a good performance and, considering the companys profitable outlook and generally robust financial condition, the board decided to increase the dividend by 20%.
MAKING THE MOST OF MORILA Morila had a difficult year and its original forecast of 500 000 ounces was reduced to 475 000 ounces after a first half in which lower grades and recoveries had impacted heavily on production.
Management believed that a stronger second half would enable it to meet the revised target but in the event problems relating to planning, grade control and plant 18 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 lock-up persisted and production came in poor ground which slowed the advance a sophisticated economy supported by a at just under 450 000 ounces.
By the end of functional infrastructure.
the year it was back in competent ground Since the year-end it has been announced and the pace accelerated briskly, achieving Funding for the development of Tongon, that AngloGold Ashanti is considering the a record advance of 260 metres in January.
as well as for other organic and corporate disposal of its 40% stake in the mine.
It is now on a critical path to the development growth opportunities, has been secured It was agreed that in these circumstances ore, which we expect to intersect by the end through a successful US$240 million equity it would be in the best interests of all of the first quarter.
The first mining faces placing in November.
It is a tribute to the stakeholders if Randgold Resources took should be established by mid-year.
The companys excellent investor relations, strong over the operatorship of the mine, which we Loulo teams undaunted attitude and shareholder communications and the inherent have done with effect from 15 February innovative spirit are demonstrated by the attraction of Tongon and other growth 2008. solution they came up with for the difficulties prospects that all our key shareholders they had encountered in establishing backfill participated in the placing.
In addition, As a first step our due diligence team is and ventilation access to the northern part although the transaction was executed in thoroughly evaluating all aspects of the of the Yalea orebody.
This was originally just 24 hours, the company was able to operation in conjunction with its management.
conceived as a raisebore shaft but with the attract both new institutional shareholders Once we have a complete understanding necessary equipment almost impossible to and a substantial retail response, all at a of all the issues we shall be in a position to obtain at present, it was redesigned as a discount of just 3% on the previous days formulate and implement a plan designed third decline from the P125 pit.
to ensure that Morila optimises the remaining only provides the required access but creates resources for the rest of its life.
We shall additional points of entry to the mine as well THE NEXT BIG THING also continue to pursue the thus-far elusive as assessing additional ore not included in Exploration continues to be the engine that opportunity to extend the mineralisation at the original mining schedule.
drives Randgold Resources growth and our Morila and the existing exploration dataset teams in the field have also had a busy year and strategy will be reviewed as part of the TONGON STARTS TAKING SHAPE which has produced some very gratifying due diligence.
The Tongon team has also been making results in the way of projects graduating excellent progress and, subject to an It is worth noting that despite the to advanced drill status.
The further agreement on a mining convention with the disappointment of the past year, Morila expansion of our resource base is detailed government of Cte dIvoire, we are initiating remains a substantial generator of cash and in the updated reserve and resource site establishment this year with the aim of profit, debt-free, unhedged and completely declaration elsewhere in this report.
starting construction in earnest at year-end exposed to the gold price.
As such it is still to be able to produce first gold in the second a very important contributor to the coffers of Outstanding features of the year are the half of 2010.
Randgold Resources and should be so for definition of a substantial mineralised structure several years to come.
demonstrated by high grade diamond drillhole The first draft of the mining convention has and RAB results from Massawa in Senegal, already been tabled for discussion.
We have LOULO CONTINUES TO STAR the extended mineralisation at the Loulo also initiated social and environmental impact Loulo also had its share of operational satellite Faraba, the airborne geophysical studies which have formed the basis for a challenges in the shape of feed and ore mix survey over our consolidated holdings in the public consultative process with the local problems caused by erratic contractor Loulo Senegal region, the shift in exploration villages and regional structures.
Most of the performance and a roll crusher failure focus in Cte dIvoire from Tongon to other mine-site layout has been settled and when exacerbated by excessive rains from July targets in the Nielle permit as well as our five the next phase of detailed flowsheet and into September.
The need to catch up on other permits in that country, including the process design has been completed, the lost output impacted significantly on Loulos Tiasso target in the Boundiali permit.
Other tendering process will start.
costs but thanks to another great effort from outstanding features were the potential for the team, the mine ended the year with adding resources at Kiaka in Burkina Faso In the meantime, the political process in production 10% ahead of forecast and yearand finally the greenfields exploration in Cte dIvoire also continues to make good on-year profit from mining up by the same Ghana and Tanzania which feeds the base progress.
We are great believers in the margin.
Full details of these future of this country, which is not only highly and other prospects are given in the review The Yalea underground development at Loulo prospective but still relatively unexplored, of operations.
ran into problems in the form of some very and also possesses that rarity in Africa: Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 19 Massawa, which we discovered last year, a versatile, expert team, thoroughly along with Tiasso in Cte dIvoire, are rapidly tested in every aspect of our business.
emerging as the frontrunners among the advanced prospects.
Results from the Our production profile illustrated on page 4 recently completed 2 500 metre infill RAB of this report shows how we plan to gear drilling programme at Massawa are at least up our output, with Loulo targeting a total as good as those produced by Yalea and production in excess of 400 000 ounces in Tongon at a similar stage.
In fact, all the 2010 and group attributable production ingredients which typically indicate a major reaching 600 000 ounces in 2011. deposit are in place: high grades, structure, alteration and variations in rock types.
Clearly were going to have to work very hard We have always believed in the prospectivity to contain the impact of costs, which we of the Kedougou-Kenieba inlier which hosts estimate will rise by between 10% and 15% Massawa and we persevered with our in 2008, subject of course to the oil price.
exploration there even though the early results Even so, we are soundly positioned to do were not that promising.
The fact that our well under all realistically foreseeable continuing work has now delivered a very scenarios.
And our strategy remains exciting target reconfirms that exploration unchanged: we continue to build our success requires not only skill but also business through discovery and tenacity.
The next step is a 7 000 metre development, while also hunting those rare diamond drilling programme which should external opportunities of real quality, with the give us a very clear understanding of the objective of creating long term value.
A reconnaisance and delineation drilling programme on the Tiasso ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS AND target in the Boundiali permit, 100 kilometres APPRECIATION west of Tongon, is also scheduled for the No review of the past year can be complete second quarter of 2008. without due recognition of the many people who worked hard to advance the companys LOOKING AHEAD TO 2008 AND BEYOND progress.
I would like to thank our board, Randgold Resources is facing the future with the many shareholders and investors who a considerable measure of confidence based made time to see me during the year, our on an impressive array of assets.
These business partners in the various areas where include: we operate, our stakeholders, notably the a pure gold strategy and a record of governments and people of our host value creation that, judging by our share countries, and our advisors.
A very special price performance, strike a responsive word of thanks is reserved for the people of chord in the market: Randgold Resources: my colleagues in the capacity to grow production from management and all our employees, each organic sources in a high gold price of whom has in one way or another environment and at a time when industry contributed to our success.
output is declining: a robust balance sheet more than capable of funding our growth projects as well as possible corporate transactions: Loulos expansion into a  and the potential for more discoveries in the region: Tongon headed for production in 2010 and a full pipeline of quality projects Mark Bristow behind that: and, by no means least, Chief executive 20 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 Review of operations Review of operations Review of operations The Randgold team consists of highly skilled Thinus Strydom individuals, each an expert in his or her specific Mine manager, Loulo underground projects field.
Together they constitute a considerable intellectual base within which each is able to After a 14-year career in gold and coal mining in support the other: for instance, though my South Africa, Ethiopia and Fiji, Thinus joined responsibility is the planning and development Randgold Resources in 2005 to head the of the underground operation, I was able to assist development of the Yalea and Gara projects at the engineering department with technical advice Loulo - the companys first underground mines when they were commissioning the primary and the first of their kind in Mali.
