Directors Report: Business Review Chief executives review After making a strong start to our first year as a focused gaming business, we experienced a significant deterioration in trading conditions in the second half for our UK retail businesses, Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos.
2008 priorities Stabilise Group performance Increase customer visits Campaign for fair taxation Summary of results continuing operations Blue Square delivered the strongest performance in The Group delivered growth in operating profit for the Group, achieving significant growth in revenue the first six months of the year but the second half and operating profit, while revenue and operating proved more difficult as our bingo clubs and casinos profit in Top Rank Espaa recovered in part from the absorbed the negative effects of new legislation, effects of the partial smoking ban introduced in 2006. higher taxation and a deteriorating economic Our two largest businesses, Mecca Bingo and environment for consumers.
Grosvenor Casinos both generated lower revenue Revenue from continuing operations of 534.4m and operating profit than in 2006.
The lower was 2.8% lower than in 2006, while Group profit performance was due in part to higher lease operating profit of 68.3m was down 6.7%.
Like for costs and in the case of Grosvenor Casinos the like clubs revenue which excludes new openings, increased rates of casino gaming duty introduced closures and relocations of bingo clubs and casinos in April 2007.
During the final four months of the was 0.5% ahead of our performance in 2006. year, revenue in both businesses fell, as the negative effects of the smoking ban and the loss The decline in operating profit was due in part of Section 21 gaming terminals required by the to 6.9m of additional lease costs relating to the Gambling Act were compounded by a 2006 sale and leaseback transaction and 4.6m deterioration in consumer confidence.
of incremental casino gaming duty arising from taxation changes announced in the Budget 2007.
In 2007, the Group has incurred 45.2m of We achieved a net cost reduction of 18.0m in exceptional losses chiey related to the impairment Group central costs and shared services, although of assets and creation of onerous lease provisions in this related in part to 8.9m of one-off costs incurred Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos.
Excluding the effects of these one-off costs, provided in the finance review.
the duty increases and higher lease costs, Group operating profit was 2.8% lower than in 2006.
Revenue m Operating profit m 2007 2006 2007 2006 restated Mecca Bingo 240.5 261.7 43.6 63.6 Top Rank Espaa 32.3 31.1 9.3 8.9 Grosvenor Casinos 209.5 217.6 29.9 36.3 Blue Square 52.1 39.2 10.9 7.8 Shared services 18.5 26.0 Central costs 6.9 17.4 Continuing operations 534.4 549.6 68.3 73.2 before exceptional items The Group has restated its financial results for 2006 to reect changes in accounting policy relating to exceptional items and the net return on the dened benefit asset.
A restatement of Group full year profits for 2006 is contained in note 39 to the financial statements.
In addition, a number of key per formance indicators have been restated on a like for like rather than absolute basis.
This more accurately reects the underlying performances of the Groups businesses.
4 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements reduction of marketing and promotional Strategic priorities expenditure in Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos: a deferral of annual pay reviews: greater purchasing and operating efficiencies: and a small We remain committed to our vision of creating number of redundancies.
the UKs leading gaming group, with a long-term This package of cost savings is in addition to strategy to generate shareholder value through the the significant cost savings delivered in 2007. development of gaming-based leisure businesses.
We continue to develop a range of differentiated Selective capital investment betting and gaming products, geared to different Given the changes affecting our businesses and segments of the adult population and distributed the current economic volatility, we have decided through a variety of retail and interactive channels.
to prioritise capital spending and to defer a number of major capital projects.
Among these projects Our focus is on increasing the number of visits to our are plans to refurbish a number of our Grosvenor businesses by rewarding our most loyal customers, Casinos and rebrand them under the G Casino reaching out to engage with new customers and name.
We will keep all expenditure under review delivering a consistently high level of service and and plan to commence development projects as product to all of our customers.
Our immediate aim in 2008 is to stabilise the Group The development of the G Casinos in Aberdeen performance in what is expected to be a difficult and Dundee are not affected by our revision of year for the leisure sector, balancing near-term capital expenditure and are scheduled to open in financial requirements with the long-term growth 2008 and 2009 respectively.
Our new G Casino opportunities for our businesses.
Consequently, at Thanet in Kent opened in February 2008. we have reviewed our capital spending plans and rened a number of the expansion and portfolio enhancement targets that we set at the time of Sustainable growth our interim results in August 2007.
Improve product offer and customer service Stabilise Group performance Our portfolio of businesses allows us to target different segments of the UK adult population with a range of gaming and non-gaming products, Adapt businesses to protect revenue including bingo, casino games, gaming machines, During 2007 we introduced a number of innovations poker, sports betting and food and drink.
Our designed specically to address the challenge of the ability to innovate subject to any regulatory smoking ban.
Our principal aim was to adapt our restrictions is an important part of our strategy bingo clubs and casinos to preserve enjoyment for to attract and retain customers.
smoking as well as non-smoking customers.
Gaming products In the year we completed the first phase of During 2007 we extended the roll-out of electronic During 2007 we created this programme, erecting sheltered areas at the bingo to 99 of our Mecca Bingo clubs, principally external bingo enclosures at majority of our Mecca Bingo clubs and Grosvenor through the use of hand-held terminals.
This 30 of our Mecca Bingo clubs.
We introduced a total of 720 interval involved the testing and trial of five different models This innovation proved bingo playing positions into the shelters at 30 of hand-held units, sourced from suppliers in the UK popular with customers and of our Mecca Bingo clubs, having obtained the and in North America.
By the end of the year we had helped to protect revenues in necessary local licensing and planning approvals.
more than 5,000 hand-held and desktop units across the second half of the year.
These shelters proved popular with customers, these clubs.
In addition, we currently have 178 generating incremental revenue for the clubs electronic bingo positions across our 11 Top Rank and supporting club prizeboards.
Espaa bingo clubs in Spain.
The second phase of this programme to expand The most immediate benefit of electronic bingo and improve the sheltered enclosures at selected is that it allows customers to play a higher number clubs is currently underway.
In Mecca Bingo we are of bingo tickets per game.
During 2008, we will now operating interval bingo in 39 of our outside continue to develop electronic bingo and are at enclosures and we have obtained gaming licensing present testing an enhanced product that allows approval to extend this to a further two clubs.
We for richer games content and greater interactivity.
plan to have developed outside gaming at 50 of our clubs by the end of the current year.
In late 2006 we introduced video bingo into two of our Top Rank Espaa clubs.
Following the success of Tighten cost controls to deliver savings this trial we adapted the product and launched it in We have targeted a further 15m of cost reductions the UK at five of our Mecca Bingo clubs in January across the Group during 2008.
Video bingo terminals allow customers across a series of margin protection measures identied during the final quarter of 2007, which included: our clubs portfolio to play individual automated games of bingo against each other.
For more information please visit www.
com The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 5 Directors Report: Business Review Chief executives review continued Following a review of our gaming machines estate During the final quarter of 2007 Grosvenor we are making a range of improvements, both Casinos launched its first press and radio consumer in Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos.
During advertising campaign as a result of the Gambling the second half of 2007 we initiated a trial of Acts relaxation of advertising restrictions for gaming server-based gaming machines in three of our companies, providing local sales and marketing Mecca Bingo clubs and in 2008 we will replace a support for 18 of our casinos.
While we do not significant number of machines, to deliver a more anticipate material expenditure on casino advertising efficient mix of products.
in 2008, the potential to create greater consumer awareness and understanding of our casinos is Under the Gambling Act 2005 it has become expected to be significant in the long term.
simpler to test new casino games and we have introduced a number of new games and side-bets During 2007, Blue Square stepped up its marketing into our casinos.
We will continue to explore programme with a series of sponsorships, designed opportunities to adopt successful casino games to raise awareness of the brand in its key markets.
The agship events were: In Blue Square we are extending our sports betting Horse racing Blue Square Nassau coverage to incorporate a range of international Stakes Stewards Cup televised on BBC1 sports, as part of the overseas development of Greyhound racing Blue Square Greyhound the business.
Derby televised on SKY Sports Non-gaming products Non-league football Blue Square Premier, Blue We recognise that our food and beverage offers in Square North and Blue Square South televised Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos have not kept on Setanta Sports pace with developments in the eating-out market and that we need to improve our menus, our service Darts Blue Square UK Darts Open televised skills and our systems.
on SKY Sports In 2007 we tested a number of new catering Poker Blue Square Grosvenor UK Poker Tour concepts in Mecca Bingo, with a focus on quality, televised on Channel 4 value and convenience and we are appointing These five sponsorships achieved widespread dedicated food and beverage managers in a number coverage for Blue Square on terrestrial and digital of our larger casinos and bingo clubs.
To support this television in 2007 which included only half a season we will complete the installation of a new electronic of the Blue Square Premier.
point of sale system in Grosvenor Casinos during the first half of 2008.
A similar project for Mecca Bingo Extend reach through development of retail will be underway shortly.
and interactive distribution channels Mecca Bingo Reward loyal customers and engage Although the sector is experiencing a period of with new customers volatility, bingo remains a highly popular leisure Reward loyal customers pursuit in the UK.
In the long term we aim to grow In 2008 we will launch a new customer rewards the number of bingo players in the UK, through programme for customers of Grosvenor and club and interactive development.
In recent years G Casinos, deploying the world-leading Bally however, we have had to shrink our clubs portfolio system in a number of our casinos on a trial basis.
in the face of high taxation, changes in customer This will enable us to provide additional benets preferences, adverse changes to gaming regulations to our most loyal customers and will help us to and the effects of the smoking ban.
gain a greater understanding of customer preferences and playing patterns.
During 2007 we closed 11 bingo clubs ten in the first half: one in the second half, which we We are currently exploring loyalty programmes considered particularly vulnerable in the light of the for Mecca Bingo and for Blue Squares interactive smoking ban.
Typically these clubs, of which eight gaming and betting products and aim to introduce were owned on a freehold basis, presented limited schemes for each business in the current year.
scope for modernisation or adaptation and a small number offered greater value under alternative use.
Engage with new customers In January 2008 non-league Across the Group we have stepped up our efforts Havant and Waterlooville FC, At 31 December 2007, we had completed the to grow our customer base through a targeted who play in the Blue Square disposal of six of the freehold properties for an approach to new member marketing.
South, reached the fourth aggregate consideration of 23.2m reporting a round of the FA Cup.
17.2m profit on disposal net of associated closure In Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos we are costs.
At present we have no plans for further club using offer-based direct marketing, member referral closures, although we will continue to keep our schemes and new member sales managers to portfolio under review.
attract new and lapsed customers.
In February 2008 we opened a new Mecca Bingo club at Thanet in Kent, taking our total number of clubs to 103.
6 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements Although we have identied a number of additional are still to be determined, the success rate is low locations where we intend to open new clubs, nine out of 30 applications were granted in 2007, we have decided to suspend further new club only four of which were in markets where Grosvenor development until we have greater visibility over operates and we have started to see a number of trading conditions.
As a consequence, we anticipate that by 2012 there will be fewer than 160 casinos In addition, we have examined opportunities to operating in Great Britain under the 1968 Act.
maximise the returns on our assets through the development of adult gaming centres within The Government has announced its intention to those properties where we have excess space.
proceed with the development of 16 new generation We opened our first adult gaming centre in Ashford casinos, provided for within the Gambling Act.
We in January 2008. remain interested in a small number of the licences and believe that our track record of responsible and Top Rank Espaa innovative operation of casinos in Britain is a strong We continue to monitor the development of the asset.
However, at present it is not clear whether the gambling market in Spain to assess opportunities Order to approve the locations of these licences will for our Spanish bingo clubs business.
be approved by Parliament, how the bidding process In September 2007 we will work and precisely what operating conditions Grosvenor Casinos rebranded the Hard Rock will apply to the new casinos.
Our strategy to grow our active customer base is Casino in Londons Leicester supported by a programme of casino development.
Blue Square Square, which became our In 2007, our G Casinos concept launched in During 2007, Blue Square continued to extend its fourth G Casino.
Manchester in 2006 was extended to Luton customer reach, through agreements with Virgin licence relocation, Blackpool and Londons Leicester Media to offer Blue Square sports betting and Square re-branding the Grosvenor and Hard Rock bingo to Virgins broadband internet customers Casinos respectively.
and Probability Games to provide mobile phone versions of popular casino games.
G Casinos are aimed at the mainstream leisure market and typically occupy large sites in high-prole During the first half of 2008 we will launch and easily accessible locations.
As well as featuring bingouniversal.
com, an on-line bingo and gaming spacious and modern gaming areas, a significant website for the Spanish market and we will begin proportion of the G Casino is set aside for soft offering multi-lingual, multi-currency sports betting gaming pari-mutuel such as poker or non-gaming services to customers of 888. com, under a white activities through the provision of live entertainment, label agreement.
sports and media lounges, bars and restaurants.
With the opening of G Casinos in Thanet and Aberdeen during 2008, the brand will have been Gambling taxation extended to six locations by the end of the year.
In December 2007 we closed our loss-making During 2007 we stepped up our campaign for Grosvenor Casino in Liverpool, although in time a level playing eld across the gambling industry we expect to relocate the licence to an improved through the application of fair and consistent tax site in the city.
At present we operate 32 casinos in Great Britain The focus of our efforts was the pursuit of a change and we hold licences to operate casinos in a further in taxation for bingo which, unlike any other form 13 locations.
This includes the two new licences of gambling in the UK, is subject to both 17.5% that were granted under the 1968 Gaming Act value added tax VAT and 15% gross profits tax the 1968 Act to Grosvenor Casinos in 2007, GPT.
It is disappointing that, in spite of repeated at Southend-on-Sea and at Edinburgh.
Our nonquestions from Members of Parliament and the operating 1968 Act casino licences present significant Bingo Association, the Government has yet to scope for the business to widen its distribution.
provide a satisfactory explanation for its continued We expect to have opened five new casinos discrimination against bingo.
In addition, The Governments decision to increase casino we will seek to relocate a number of licences and gaming duty in the Budget 2007 cost Grosvenor invest selectively in the modernisation and extension Casinos an additional 4.6m in gaming duty.
The slightly slower pace of The change, which was introduced without prior development than indicated previously reects this years revised capital spending plans and is notication or consultation with the casinos industry, representative of a more general slowing in new resulted in a 22.6% increase in casino gaming duty, supply across the market.
although some of our smaller casinos experienced duty rises of as much as 500%.
Since April 2006, there has been a moratorium in effect on the submission of applications for new HM Treasury has stated that it is reviewing the casino licences under the 1968 Act.
Although a taxation treatment of player-to-player poker played number of applications submitted prior to April 2006 in casinos.
The effect of applying GPT to poker fees For more information please visit www.
com The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 7 Directors Report: Business Review Chief executives review continued in addition to VAT would not be material in terms Outlook of Group profits but would nevertheless discourage investment in poker rooms, which represent a softer gaming aspect to casino operations.
We would We announced at the time of our last market update consider such a move to be contradictory to the in December 2007 that trading had stabilised in stated aims of the Governments gambling policy.
Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos in the nine-week period since 7 October.
During the first eight weeks of 2008 this position has been broadly maintained Pension plan in Grosvenor Casinos, with a modest improvement in Mecca Bingo.
On 28 February 2008 we announced that we had Year-on-year revenue growth for the eight weeks entered into a series of agreements with the Trustee to 24 February 2008 of the Rank Pension Plan and Rothesay Life a wholly Like for like owned subsidiary of Goldman Sachs, to transfer the revenue % Total revenue % assets and liabilities of the pension plan to Rothesay Life.
Mecca Bingo 13.5 16.8 The transfer will secure the accrued benets for the Top Rank Espaa 2.7 2.7 members of the pension plan and will remove the Grosvenor Casinos 13.4 12.2 remaining financial risks and liabilities in relation to Blue Square 14.9 14.9 the pension plan from Rank.
As a result of the Group 10.3 11.0 transfer, Rank will no longer be required to make excludes new club openings, closures and relocations remaining scheduled contributions totalling 30.8m, which the Group agreed with the pension trustee During the period, Group revenue declined by at the time of the sale of Deluxe Film in 2006.
10.3% on a like for like basis against the first eight Upon completion of the transfer Rank expects weeks in 2007. to receive a cash payment of at least 20m, In Mecca Bingo, like for like revenue was 13.5% representing the Group's allocation of the expected lower than in the first eight weeks in 2007, with surplus within the pension plan after an appropriate admissions down by 13.6% and spend per head up sharing with the plan's members and any anticipated 0.1%.
This compares with the 17.3% fall in revenue costs, including tax, associated with the transfer.
experienced during the 17 weeks from the start of The transfer is subject to clearance from HM Revenue September 2007 when the Gambling Act was and Customs regarding the tax treatment of the implemented to the end of the year.
Rank expects this clearance to be obtained In Grosvenor Casinos like for like revenue was by May 2008, with completion of the transfer 13.4% lower than in the first eight weeks in 2007, expected in June 2008. with admissions down 13.4% and spend per head level.
This performance reects a good comparative trading period in 2007, the effects of competitor Hard Rock openings on a small number of our casinos and a In October 2007, Chancellor reduction in promotional expenditure at the start of the Exchequer Alistair of 2008.
In absolute revenue terms we have Darling MP visited his local Payment of special dividend continued to trade in line with the final 17 Mecca Bingo club at Fountain On 5 March 2007, we completed the $965m weeks in 2007.
Park in Edinburgh to listen to 502m disposal of Hard Rock to Seminole Hard customer and employee calls Rock Entertainment Inc. a wholly-owned subsidiary In Blue Square revenue grew by 14.9%, with a for an end to double taxation.
of the Seminole Tribe of Florida.
As a consequence strong improvement in gaming but continued we were able to return 353m to shareholders via weakness from our sportsbook.
a 65.0p per share special dividend, which was paid on 9 April 2007.
The special dividend payment was The Board believes that 2008 will be a challenging accompanied by an 18 for 25 share consolidation.
year for Rank's businesses as they continue to respond to changes in the legislative and economic environment.
The priority for the Group is to stabilise performance while retaining a focus on the longerDividend term opportunities for growth in the gaming sector.
On 12 October 2007, the Group paid an interim dividend of 2.0p per share.
However, as a result of the difficult and uncertain trading environment, the Board announced on 12 December 2007 that it had decided not to pay a final dividend for the year.
The Board intends to resume dividend payments Ian Burke once trading conditions and the market outlook have improved.
Chief Executive 8 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements
