Chief Executives Review 2007 was a great year!
The strong financial results and confidence Due to the historical way our business has in the continued momentum of the Company been built over the years, through mergers and We made excellent progress in making our led the Board to increase 2007 dividends by acquisitions, our Power Brands are not yet present 18 Power Brands stronger global market leaders.
21% and continue with a 300m share in all markets around the world.
However, Bar one, that held flat, all Power Brands gained buy back programme.
our dedication to rolling them out into new market share due to high levels of brand geographies is reaping rewards.
In 1999, investment and the launch of exciting new Investors often ask us why we have been Vanish was mostly a UK brand, but it is now products like Air Wick Freshmatic Mini and successful and even more importantly if we can in 57 countries and the clear No.
1 worldwide Vanish Oxi Action Multi.
Not only did the Power continue our track record.
Since the formation in Fabric Treatment.
Veet was in 27 and with its Brands gain in the markets where they are sold, of Reckitt Benckiser in 1999, the Company has presence now in 73 countries has become the they are increasingly becoming global leaders delivered consistently above industry average global leader in depilatories.
Air Wick was in as we roll these brands out to new markets.
growth in net revenues and profits.
We believe 11 and it is now in 70 making it a strong at the heart of our success lies our consumerPower Brands now account for 61% of Reckitt No.
centric vision, a clear and consistent strategy, Benckisers total net revenues, up from 40% the strength of our organisation and culture and Globalising our Power Brands not only makes in 2001.
The continued strong development our ever stronger product portfolio of globally them stronger market leaders, it further behind these increasingly clear global leaders leading brands in attractive categories.
We enhances our corporate net revenue growth.
in categories with strong growth potential believe the same elements position us well for positions the Company well for the future.
Transforming growth into profit and future success.
cash flow We also started to realise our ambition of A consumer-centric vision becoming a real global player in consumer We focus on turning the growth of the business Our vision is to deliver consumers and customers healthcare, another area where we believe into attractive profit and cash flow through better solutions for that short period of time the Company can achieve good growth at very margin expansion and cash conversion.
every day that they use household cleaning, attractive margins.
health or personal care products.
Our enduring We expand margins through an unrelenting In February 2006, we acquired the Boots passion to make continuous progress in this area attention to cost optimisation, from removing Healthcare International BHI business.
In 2007, forms the foundation of our success.
unnecessary components in packaging to creative not only did we complete the integration of BHI, approaches in manufacturing and logistics.
We A clear and consistent strategy delivering more than the originally targeted also drive margins by focusing on higher margin synergies and one year ahead of schedule, Disproportionate focus on our 18 Power products and categories.
Margin expansion not we managed to grow the BHI business by 10% Brands to realise our vision and drive above only fuels profit growth, but it also provides the on a true like-for-like basis, well ahead of industry average growth funds to reinvest back into the business to pursue ingoing assumptions.
Most of this growth was more growth opportunities.
We narrowly focus on these 18 brands as they driven by the three new Power Brands that typically are global market leaders in categories The proof of our success is that we have came with the BHI acquisition: Nurofen, Strepsils with strong growth potential.
These are the continued to expand margins even in a period and Clearasil.
brands that receive the lions share of new of volatility in commodity prices, and this is due Towards the end of 2007, we announced our products to realise our vision and the bulk of to our persistence in seeking internal cost intent to acquire Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, our media and marketing investment to reduction opportunities not as a one-off exercise, Inc. a transaction which completed on consistently grow them ahead of the market but as a way of everyday business.
Adams allows us to enter the and company average.
We convert all of this into cash through tight USA, the largest consumer healthcare market in Our Power Brands now account for 61% of our control and management of our net working the world with Mucinex, the clear No.
1 in the total business up from 40% in 2001.
Many of capital and relentless attention to cash.
Mucinex will become them are world leaders like Vanish in Fabric th our 19 Power Brand.
Its unique and patentOur management, people and culture Treatment, Finish and Calgonit in Automatic protected formulas and consumer claims of make it happen Dishwashing or Lysol and Dettol in Disinfection.
12-hour relief provide clear opportunities for A strong management team, and a highly driven further growth for the brand in the USA and in We use high levels of brand investment and group of people, bound together by a common new geographies.
innovation to nurture our Power Brands to above culture bring this vision and strategy to life.
industry and company average growth rates.
As we are looking forward, we are excited by At Reckitt Benckiser, we work together with Our innovation rate at almost 40% of net revenue the growth and margin potential the Power passion to excite consumers.
We truly live our from products launched in the prior three years Brands in consumer healthcare can bring to business, it is fun and therefore rewarding and strengthens the positions of our Power Brands Reckitt Benckiser.
it is an obsession that goes beyond just being within their categories, continually enhancing a job.
Our culture breeds pride in achievement, Strong in-market results drove our financial success their consumer appeal.
These innovations are a truly personal commitment to deliver, pleasure in the year.
2007 was the eighth consecutive then supported with a marketing investment in co-operating in teams and the excitement year of above industry average net revenue and that is amongst the highest in our industry of taking calculated risks in the search for better profit growth for Reckitt Benckiser.
Net revenues with our media investment alone running at solutions.
Not for us a culture of consensus, at constant exchange grew by 10% in total and 12.4% of net revenues.
rather we enjoy constructive conflict if it leads to 9% on a like-for-like basis, with exchange reducing better decision making.
Ours is a culture that both numbers by 3%.
Adjusted profit for the works for us.
That is why we work very hard on year advanced by 15% at actual exchange.
recruiting and developing our talent to fit with our culture.
2 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Delivering shareholder value Seeing is believing We always analyse and review the reasons for in the short-term our past success.
The result of our vision, strategy and values These 2007 financial results and the progress of brought to life by our passionate people is a our Power Brands and categories are evidence performance that has delivered growing profit that our approach works.
and cash flow for shareholders.
Our growth has outpaced our industry consistently over the past We have a compelling vision and strategy eight years.
And shareholders have been alongside a dynamic group of Power Brands rewarded for this with consistent growth in the with an exciting array of growth opportunities value of their shares, in a progressive dividend ahead.
This is brought to life by our 23,400 policy, and continuing share buy backs.
people, incentivised and motivated, working in a collaborative and energising environment, in the long-term and in a Company they are proud to work for.
We are also driving the long-term value of the I believe these attributes are the foundations business for shareholders by making our business of our past success and will continue to be the more sustainable, through building our reputation fundamental drivers to our future success.
as a responsible company, and through taking However, seeing is believing, and I hope the actions to improve upon the social and pages that follow will allow you to share my environmental impact of our business.
Reckitt Benckiser now consistently scores at the head of industry on external measures of sustainability.
With programmes such as Trees Bart Becht for Change a carbon offset programme and Chief Executive our continuing partnership with Save the Children worldwide, we are already putting back some of the benefits of our business.
In 2007 we launched a major and far-reaching programme, Carbon 20, to make a real and measurable reduction in our products Total Carbon Footprint, from cradle-to-grave.
This programme tackles not just the easy wins of carbon reduction in the areas under the control of our own business, but the much larger, if less straightforward, issues in our supply chain and in consumer use of our products.
Success in reducing our products Total Carbon Footprint by 20% by the year 2020 will make a real contribution to the worlds efforts on climate change, effectively taking the equivalent of nearly a million cars off the roads.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 3
