Chairman and Chief Executives report 04 Chairman and Chief Executives report Highlights of the year Strong financial performance for 2007 Good momentum and significant plans to accelerate growth Major reshaping of portfolio Sale of Harcourt Education now completed Planned divestment of Reed Business Information Agreed 2.1 billion e2.8 billion acquisition of ChoicePoint, Inc Significantly expands position in fast growing risk information and analytics marketplace Significant restructuring programme More cohesive business delivering important cost efficiencies Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 05 We are very pleased to report on a year of significant achievement and strategic development for Reed Elsevier.
Our businesses performed well in their markets and saw rapid growth in our online information services and customer workflow solutions.
The financial performance was strong, with good organic revenue growth and margin improvement, high cash generation and a further step-up in return on invested capital.
We also significantly reshaped the business portfolio with the very successful 2.5 billion a3.6 billion sale of the Harcourt Education division and subsequent return of the net proceeds to shareholders.
In the new financial year we have stepped up the momentum with the announcement of important plans to accelerate growth: the planned divestment of the Reed Business Information trade magazines and information businesses Important plans to to reduce our exposure to advertising markets and their cyclicality: the agreed accelerate growth 2.1 billion a2.8 billion acquisition of ChoicePoint Inc. in the fast growing risk information and analytics market: and a major restructuring programme to deliver substantial cost savings over and above our regular annual improvements in cost effectiveness.
The changes we are making create a more cohesive and synergistic business with stronger, more consistent growth prospects to drive further shareholder value.
Strong business and financial performance We have made good progress over the last year in business performance.
Investment against our online growth and workflow solutions strategy is paying off Online growth and in the good revenue momentum.
Together with our cost initiatives, this is driving workflow solutions underlying margin improvement and a strong earnings performance.
The decline of strategy paying off the US dollar takes some shine off the earnings growth expressed in sterling and euros, but the strength of the underlying performance is very encouraging with 2007 seeing the highest constant currency earnings growth of the last 10 years.
Revenues were up 6%, adjusted operating profits up 11% and adjusted earnings per share up 12% at constant currencies, with good performances seen across all the businesses.
Online information services and workflow solutions grew 11% and accounted for nearly 50% of revenues, reflecting the success of our investment-led digital growth strategy.
The quality of the operating profits is underpinned by the strong cash flow, with 97% of adjusted operating profits converting into cash, and a 0.8 percentage point increase in return on invested capital to 11.8% post tax.
Chairman and Chief Executives report 06 Chairman and Chief Executives report continued Major reshaping and strengthening of the portfolio We are implementing an important reshaping of the Reed Elsevier portfolio, with the strategic goal of moving more of our assets away from slower growth, More consistent, more cyclical advertising print based sectors, and more towards faster growth, cohesive and less cyclical online based sectors.
Consequently in 2007 we sold the Harcourt synergistic business Education business, and now plan the divestment of the Reed Business trade to accelerate growth magazine and information businesses RBI, and the acquisition of the online risk analytics business of ChoicePoint.
Together these moves create a more consistent, cohesive and synergistic business and accelerate growth.
The Harcourt Education business was sold for 2.5 billion a3.6 billion in two separate transactions that have now completed, representing 21 times 2006 adjusted operating profits and realising a substantial gain.
After taxation and other costs related to the sale, the estimated net proceeds of 2.0 billion a2.7 billion were distributed to shareholders on 18 January 2008.
The planned divestment of RBI is a further major step in our portfolio development.
Although RBI has had considerable success in developing high-growth online services, its advertising revenue model, accounting for approximately 60% of revenues, and the inherent cyclicality fit less well with the subscription-based information and workflow solutions focus of Reed Elseviers strategy.
In addition to reshaping the business through disposals, we are strengthening the business through organic investment and acquisition, most notably with the agreed acquisition of ChoicePoint Inc. 2007 revenues 491 million a717 million expected Major further to be completed later in the year.
This represents a major further step in the step in building building of our risk management business and in the development of Reed risk management Elseviers online workflow solutions strategy.
business The market growth in risk information and analytics is highly attractive and ChoicePoint brings important assets and market positions that fit well with our very successful LexisNexis risk information and analytics group.
ChoicePoints insurance services business in particular has seen strong consistent growth, and, through the combination of ChoicePoints highly regarded data and analytics assets and our leading LexisNexis risk technology, we can further develop compelling offerings for our customers and realise significant synergy benefits.
The acquisition will accelerate Reed Elseviers revenue and profit growth and deliver a good and growing return on capital.
Whilst we look to maintain capital efficiency through a progressive dividend policy and the annual share repurchase programme, our balance sheet strength ensures that Reed Elsevier can access the most cost effective sources of borrowing and supports our strategic ambition in evolving professional publishing and information markets.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 07 Major restructuring programme to accelerate growth The move to a more cohesive portfolio provides us with the opportunity to accelerate progress in consolidating and streamlining our technology, operations A more integrated and back office support.
In doing so, Reed Elsevier becomes a more integrated company with company with significant savings in our cost structure.
The restructuring plan significant savings announced has an attractive payback and will make a meaningful addition to margin and earnings growth.
The principal focus of the restructuring is on technology, operations, development engineering, production, procurement, customer service, finance and administration.
Some of these savings will be used to fund additional investment in new product, sales and marketing to take advantage of the growing opportunities for workflow solutions in our markets and to build further competitive differentiation.
The plan is targeted to deliver a total of 245 million a335 million of cost savings over the next four years, with progressive net annual savings reaching 100 million a135 million in 2011 over and above the normal expected annual margin improvement and additional investment.
The exceptional restructuring costs are estimated to be approximately 140million a190million, with a cash payback of 2.5 years.
Earnings per share and dividends At reported exchange rates, adjusted earnings per share were up 7% for Reed Elsevier PLC at 35.9p and up 5% for Reed Elsevier NV at a0.80.
The lower growth than the 12% at constant currencies reflects the 9% year on year decline in the US dollar against both sterling and the euro.
Reported earnings per share were up 94% to 49.7p for Reed Elsevier PLC and up 86% to a1.10 for Reed Elsevier NV, reflecting the strong underlying operating performance together with the gain on the sale of Harcourt Education and other businesses.
The Boards are recommending an increase in the equalised final dividends of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV of 15% and 2% respectively, to give total dividends for the year up 14% and 5%.
The differential growth rates reflect the sharp movement in the sterling euro exchange rate particularly since the 2006 final dividend proposal in February 2007.
Dividends paid in the year, together with share buybacks under the annual share repurchase programme, distributed 615 million a898 million to shareholders, representing 86% of free cash flow.
Chairman and Chief Executives report 08 Chairman and Chief Executives report continued Board changes Strauss Zelnick retired from the Boards in December 2007 after three years of service due to his increasing business commitments in the US.
His wide ranging media experience has benefited us in many ways and we thank him for his insightful contribution in that time.
Rolf Stomberg retires at the Annual General Meetings after nine years of service, including serving as senior independent director and chairman of the remuneration committee.
He has been an invaluable member of the Boards through a period of significant change for Reed Elsevier and we thank him for his substantial contribution.
Outlook Going into 2008, conditions remain generally favourable in our markets with strong subscription renewals and good revenue momentum for online information and workflow solutions.
The business magazines and information businesses, whilst The outlook for seeing general uncertainty in markets such as property and construction, are Reed Elsevier is seeing no overall shift in market trends.
very positive Our focus in 2008 will be on executing against our four strategic priorities: delivering authoritative content through leading brands, driving online solutions, improving cost efficiency, and reshaping and strengthening the portfolio.
Implementation of the restructuring programme, the planned divestment of Reed Business Information and the acquisition and integration of ChoicePoint will be of particular significance.
The outlook for Reed Elsevier is very positive.
We are well positioned in attractive markets: the momentum in the business is showing through in the good financial performance: and the changes we are making will strengthen the business and accelerate our growth.
Our business is dependent on the skill, energy and enterprise of our staff operating around the world.
They do an outstanding job, with real professionalism and exceptional commitment to our customers, to each other and to the communities we serve.
We could not ask for more and we want to take this opportunity to thank them all.
Jan Hommen Sir Crispin Davis Chairman Chief Executive Officer INFORMATION SOLUTIONS MUST BE - REAL TIME At Reed Business we know that our customers need the right information at the right time to work faster and more efficiently.
Thats why we design our online data and information products to deliver content instantaneously, anytime, anywhere across a range of media.
The real-time information we provide gives our customers a wide understanding of their marketplace and the competitive edge they need to succeed in a global economy.
Peter fide Monnink Chief Strategy and Internet Officer, Reed Business 2 million Number of monthly jobseekers visiting Totaljobs.
com, the UKs most visited commercial recruitment website 95% Percentage of Fortune 500 companies using LexisNexis, in addition to the top 100 US law firms RELEVANT Relevance comes from understanding customer needs, and our advisory boards and product champions go to great lengths to improve this understanding.
To be relevant, different strands of information must be brought together with seamless interaction.
We achieve this with a combination of authoritative content and workflow tools that are embedded deep within our customers daily routines.
Mike Walsh CEO US Legal Markets, LexisNexis ACCESSIBL 386 million Number of articles and reports downloaded in 2007 from ScienceDirect, one of the world's most advanced web delivery systems for scientific, technical and medical information Our customers require complete access to the information that allows them to obtain the answers theyre seeking.
We provide this access using high speed network switching technology and grid computing techniques coupled with customer facing solutions.
Reed Elsevier is committed to delivery excellence in information technology.
E Mark Popolano Chief Technology Officer, Reed Elsevier TRUSTED The trust customers have in our brands stems from years of heritage and our expertise in workflow solutions.
Our highly experienced publishing people have deep knowledge of our end-users needs and they select authors with the foremost authority in their field.
All our content is thoroughly peer-reviewed and our specialist advisory panels tell us exactly what the market wants.
Sally Schrefer EVP Nursing and Health Professions, Elsevier 85% Percentage of US nurses in Elsevier surveys rating Mosby as excellent or very good perating and financial review O 19 Divisional summary 20 Elsevier 22 LexisNexis 24 Reed Business 26 Discontinued operations Harcourt Education 27 Chief Financial Officers report 27 Combined businesses 34 Parent companies
