Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives review A focused business model Our strategy remains one of measured and sustainable growth.
By keeping focused on our consistent, long term strategy that of measured, sustainable growth we have been able to demonstrate our ability to deliver continued benets for all of our stakeholders.
Through the ongoing implementation of our core strategy of controlled, disciplined growth via both organic expansion in existing and new markets and acquisitions the Group has delivered substantial workstation growth in all regions during 2007.
The total number of available workstations at 31 December 2007 was 142,601.
If Mark Dixon 2007 has been another very successful year non-consolidated workstations arising from for the Group, with excellent growth in revenues, franchise operations, joint ventures and profitability, earnings per share and cash managed ofces are also taken into account, generation all resulting in a fourth successive the total number of workstations under year of record results.
I am particularly pleased management increases to 155,270. to have passed for the first time the milestone We have seen the number of centres we operate of achieving 100 million of earnings.
increase by 128, including franchises, joint ventures and managed ofces.
New locations include Kolkata in India, Winnipeg in Canada, Lille in France, Turin in Italy and we opened our first centres in Bulgaria, Qatar, Jordan, Kenya The unique nature of our business will ensure and New Zealand.
The largest Regus centre, the Regus Silver Centre in Shanghai with over 1,400 that we continue to drive sustainable growth: workstations, opened for business in January 2007.
Strategy and objectives Strategy Throughout 2007, we have remained clear on our strategic approach, which at its core seeks 1 Our consistent long term strategy is that of measured, to ensure continued profitable growth and sustainable growth to maximise benefits for our stakeholders.
cash generation driven by a scalable business model with considerable potential for further development.
With a substantial existing footprint of established, performing centres Business model forming a network across 70 countries, we 2 A scalable business model with considerable potential have been able to leverage these assets for for further development.
long term growth and value creation for shareholders, and also to continue to grow in line with our strategic short and longer term goals.
Future prospects Central to this strategy is driving continued 3 We believe that we are in a good position to capitalise improvement in on our flexible product offering which makes us an ideal our brand and products choice for many companies in times of uncertainty.
our systems and technology our processes 6 www.
com and more generally, in our knowledge of existing Systems and technology We have also continued to invest in our systems and future markets.
Our people will continue to and technology.
be the engineers of change in this respect.
The roll-out of our internally developed inventory, Brand and product development reservation and billing system across our By continuing to develop and rene our product worldwide network has proceeded well.
By and service portfolio we recognise that our 31 December 2007, we had 495 of our centres customers needs are continually evolving, utilising this technology in their day to day in different ways, around our global network.
This system will deliver tangible Our core business continues to be driven by improvements in our customers day to day regionally targeted campaigns which focus experiences with Regus.
on local specics but also leverage global strategies.
Examples of such targeted The second half of 2007 saw a refresh of our campaigns which have driven our brand and website part of our objective of developing product recognition include 1.2 million mail further the Regus brand.
This has already shots to homes in the UK and 870,000 targeted started to show measurable improvements e-mail communications to prospective ofce in our customers website experience, notably customers across the 41 countries in EMEA.
in site navigation, as well as driving an increase in enquiry conversion levels globally.
In addition, during 2007, we launched our Business Lounge concept in both the UK Finally, Regus continues to operate the worlds and US, and have continued to invest in our largest video-conferencing network from the Membership card initiative.
We are confident perspective of global reach.
We have continued that as our scale increases, the ability for to see an increase in demand and usage for Regus to offer continued, enhanced operational this product during 2007, reecting what we benets to our customers will also increase.
believe to be an increasing recognition by our I am delighted to see our card membership customers of environmental concerns coupled levels doubling in 2007. with a desire for a cost-effective business driver.
A leading strategy for growth Our priorities for 2008 Expanding our network We will continue to grow our network in key cities 1 where we have minimal representation, expand into Developing our team new markets and, within the Asia Pacific market, Expanding members continue to consolidate and develop our position our network as the largest provider of serviced offices.
Innovative products and services Developing Generating The re-launched Membership card recognises the our brand mobility demands of our customers and we will Innovative profitable continue to extol the clear benefits that this initiative products growth and provides to our thousands of customers worldwide.
services Investments in systems and technology Operational The refresh of our website has now encompassed excellence Investments 33 countries, with another 26 in test and due for in systems implementation in early 2008.
We anticipate the and implementation and use of our internally developed technology inventory, reservation and billing system within our entire network by the end of 2008.
Regus Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7 Directors Report Business Review Processes where required, whilst at the same time employing subject matter experts in regional During 2007, we have further developed our business processes and procedures throughout centres or head ofce.
function, based in the UK and established in 2007, has also allowed us to identify areas of The rollout of our internally developed inventory, operational compliance improvement throughout reservation and billing system has been a our network, with the result being stronger significant enabler of this allowing us to drive controls and tangible revenue benets.
consistent structured processes across all our People regions of operation.
We see benets in this Our results in 2007 would not have been scalable model not only to our existing centres, possible had it not been for our 4,730 team but also to all future new centre openings members throughout the world and I extend and acquisitions.
my thanks to each of them for their commitment We have implemented improvements to our and enthusiasm.
Their continued customerHuman Resources HR systems in certain focused ethos and approach have seen of our regions, allowing us to capture more improvements in operational execution and effectively all HR data in one place, with levels of satisfaction throughout our network.
substantial process benets for employees We will continue to seek to employ the best and for managing our growing workforce.
An candidates, and to encourage their growth and example of this is the successful implementation development through vesting appropriate levels of HR.
Net, a web-enabled system throughout of responsibility and challenge for each role.
EMEA, which has allowed us to move away We recognise our employees achievements in a from a large number of local limited functionality variety of ways, be it through internal recognition manually managed HR applications.
or in ongoing career development within our Throughout the year, we have also continued to regional training centres.
During 2007, Regus ensure our growth plans are supported by strong invested a substantial amount in the training administration frameworks, encompassing local and development of its people, with several finance, HR, procurement and operations teams significant programmes offered including: A globally diversied business Regus value proposition Mobile and home working leader For the customer 2 Virtual office, video-conferencing Cheaper opex and meeting rooms Zero capex Business lounges, membership Flexible cards and day offices Immediate, no fuss Reliable, outsourced solution Business centre leader National, regional, global 918 centres in 70 countries For the landlord 142,601 workstations Allows small customers Market rent or better Incubator Corporate outsourcing Amenity Training room Regus brand Immediate and easy Managed offices 8 www.
com structured training for newly hired General Our global footprint means that we can capitalise Managers GMs and Operational Managers on opportunities wherever they exist and in OMs.
Throughout our regions, over particular in the developing markets.
Our 485 GMs and OMs completed this three-week revenues in the BRIC economies and the induction course during the year.
N11 grew 45.7% and 28.6% respectively in 2007 and we expect these significant growth sales and operations training for GMs and rates to continue.
OMs all regions : online learning programmes accessed and As the business has grown, inherent risk delivered via the web: has been extensively diversied as we have Management Development for Area Directors acquired a broader range of customers across ADs in the Americas to be launched geographies, business segments and size globally in 2008 : and categories.
Our cost base is also signicantly more exible as we increase the number of General Human Resources and Supervisory exible leases in our portfolio and we reduce training led by the EMEA HR Team.
our exposure to longer leases.
The outputs of these courses have been The year has started well with enquiries showing significant, with positive feedback from no sign of weakness.
We believe that we are in participants coupled with tangible outputs in increased sales levels shortly thereafter.
a good position to capitalise on our exible product offering which makes us an ideal choice Regus has also invested in establishing for many companies in times of uncertainty.
professional trainers in Asia Pacic, EMEA and the UK to complement the internal training team Overall we look forward to generating further in the Americas, and we anticipate continuing to profitable growth in 2008. strengthen the Global Training teams resources and global reach during 2008.
Mark Dixon Outlook Chief Executive officer While clearly the current economic climate remains uncertain we believe we are in a good position to continue growing profitably.
Future prospects United Kingdom EMEA 3 Investing in our centres Further improving occupancy and in targeted marketing and margin in our existing centres Driving enquiry development Expanding our network into low and conversion risk, low capex emerging markets Attractive low risk growth opportunities Americas Asia Pacic Maximising yield in our existing centres Continue our aggressive growth plan adding second tier cities Growing our portfolio in key cities where we have minimal representation Improving the efficiency of our current portfolio of centres Continued efficiency improvements Continued use of participation leases to reduce risk nd out more at: regus.
com Regus Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9
