Operatingand financial review Introduction 2007 was another year of good progress for The Restaurant Group TRG building on the strong performance of the previous year.
Both divisions performed well and all of our Chief Executive key performance metrics improved.
Revenue, EBITDA, profits and margins all grew and this serves to highlight both the benefits of our strategy of focusing on the out of town Of ficer sr eview marketplace and also the efficacy of our model.
It is particularly encouraging that TRG was able to achieve these results against amorechallenging economic backdrop and this of operations demonstrates both the defensive and resilient characteristics of our market positioning and the strength of our operations and brands.
As aresult, the Group achieved arecord level of adjusted earnings per shareat14.64p representing growth of 27% on the previous year.
Considering that the bar had been raised significantlyin2006, when earnings per sharegrewby27%, these results represent avery satisfactory performance.
TRG rationale Our coreobjective continues to be growth in shareholder value and our strategy to achieve this has been, and will continue to be, to build abusiness capable of delivering long-term, sustainable and growing cashflows.
Iampleased to report that, again, we have  our profits into cash at avery healthy rate.
Strong growth in earnings per sharehas translated into strong growth in cashflow per share.
Our model enablesthe Group to continue its growth in apredominantly organic and highly value accretive way, funded through internally generated funds.
Wherewedeem it appropriate we arealso able to supplement this organic growth via targeted acquisitions, as we did during 2007 with the acquisition of the Brunning &Price pub restaurant business.
Our touchstones arecashflow and returnoninvestment and, whether we areassessinga new 1 7% site or an acquisition, our focus is on ensuring that the investment is value accretive.
Increaseinrevenue TRG sprimary focus is on edge of town, out of town, rural, semi-rural and airport locations.
These locations have significant barriers to entry, offer good growth prospects and enableustogenerate consistentlyhigh returns on investment.
We occupy leading marketpositions in each of these segments and we arewell placed to continue to grow our business in these areas.
Looking forward, we have astrong pipeline of new sites for the next three years.
Group results Results marked as adjusted arestated excluding non-trading items refer to note 2 All of our key performance metrics improved during 2007 with growth in both of our divisions: Building on the 5% increase in like-forlike sales in 2006, we grew this metric by 5.5% in 2007.
Approximately70% of this increase represented covers growth with more people using our restaurants and in 2007 we sold morethan 30 million meals: Revenue increased by 17% to 367m: Adjusted EBITDA increased by 22% to 67.
8m and adjusted operating profit increased by 23% to 48.2m: and Margins improved at both divisional and Group levels with our Group adjusted operating profit marginincreasing by 60 basis points to 13.1% avery satisfactory result particularly against atough hurdle of 140 and 90 basis point improvements in 2006 and 2005 respectively.
Again, the increase in profit was the product of three principal components like-forlike profit increases from the existing estate, profitable contribution from new openings and further cost savings resulting from operational efficiencies and purchasing initiatives.
This combination represents ahealthy background to our continued profitable development.
Andrew Page Chief Executive Officer T he team deliver ed another impr essive performancei n2007, with earnings up 27% and 36 new re sta ura nts su cce ss fu ll yo pened and tradingw ell.
04 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2007 Leisure Total revenue 285.2m Operating profit 61.6m Operating margin 21.6% Frankie &Bennysand Chiquito, Blackburn Frankie&Benny s 159 units Frankie&Benny sperformed superblywith both EBITDA and operating profit increasing by morethan 20% and good growth in margins.
During the year we opened 20 new restaurantsofwhich 10 wereonnon-cinema sites.
The results from the new openings have been excellent and they areset to deliver very strong returns.
This year we are aiming to open asimilar number of new restaurants and, having been busy in recent years building ahigh quality pipeline of new sites, we  strong returns.
Chiquito 53 units Chiquito enjoyed another excellent year with growth in EBITDAand operating profit of almost30% and operating profit margin up 90 basis points.
Against abackground of very high growth in profits and margins in both 2006 and 2005, this represents an 2 1% outstanding performance.
Last year we challenged the Chiquito team to build on their terrific performance in 2006 and they did not let us down.
Iamconfident that they will be Growth in revenue in our just as keen to repeat that feat in 2008!
During the year we opened eight new restaurants Leisuredivision and we aredelighted with their performance.
We expect to open 5-8 new Chiquito restaurantsin2008.
As noted in my report last year we areparticularly pleased with the performance of our restaurants which areco-located with Frankie &Benny sand we are continuing with our plans to pursue these dual roll-out opportunities.
Garfunkel s 26 units Garfunkel sperformed well during 2007 and, notwithstanding that we lost 19 weeks of trade during the first half whilst restaurants wereclosed for refurbishment, the business delivered approximatelythe same level of profit as for 2006.
The refurbishments were completed by the end of the first half and during the second half profits and margins increased significantly.
Garfunkel sisnow in its 29th year and continues to deliver excellent profits and returns.
Pub Restaurants 42 units This business now comprises Blubeckers and, following its acquisition in October 2007, the Brunning &Price pub restaurant business.
Blubeckers performed solidly during 2007 and has good potential.
During 2006 we embarked upon amoreambitious rollout programme for Blubeckers and this continued in 2007.
Last year we opened six new Blubeckers pub restaurants and in the summer we strengthened the Blubeckers team by introducing senior management with astrong track recordwithin TRG of operational management and also good experience of executing successful rollouts.
The impact of this has been very positive.
Brunning &Price, CornMill Following the acquisition of Brunning &Price B&P, we added afurther 14 new pub restaurantstoour portfolio.
We aredelighted with the performance of the B&P pub restaurantssince the acquisition and we intend to grow the business.
The B&P pub restaurantshave amorerelaxed feel compared with Blubeckers.
Although B&P spubs arenot branded they all shareasimilar typeoffit out and operating style.
The quality of food is high B&P won the Good Pub Guides Pub Group of the Year Awardfor the thirdtime in 2007 and they attract aregular and loyal customer base.
We aredelighted to have retained all of the operational management team at Brunning &Price.
It is an experienced, talented and successful team and we look forwardtoworking with the team to further develop and grow our Pub Restaurant business.
During 2008 we areexpecting to open atotal of 5-10 new pub restaurants and, longer - term, the Pub Restaurantbusiness has the potential to become asignificant part of the Group.
05 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2007 Concessions 50 units Operatingand financial review Total revenue Chief Executive 81.2m Operating profit Of ficer sr eview 12.5m of operations Operating margin continued 15.4% Our Concessions division enjoyed another year of good progress producing astrong increase in operating profit and an improvement in margin.
 operating background both logisticallyand cost-wise this is an outstanding performance.
We opened two new units during 2007 and these aregenerating strong returns.
We expect asmallnet increase in the number of Concessions units during 2008 in what will be ayear of significant change given the developments at Heathrow airport.
In late March we will open four new sites at the new Terminal 5and later in the year when Terminal 2 closes we will close our restaurant there.
During 2008 we areexpecting some significant swings in trading patterns at Heathrow as passengers migrate from the existing terminals into the new T5.
Going forward, we areconfident that these new developments place our Concessions business in avery strong position.
Non-core During the year losses from non-coreactivities decreased by 0.55m and we will continue to take steps to reduce these non-corelosses.
Corporate activity In October 2007 we acquired Brunning &Price Limited for 32m in cash.
The business ShakeA-Hula, Gatwick Airport comprises of 14 trading pub restaurants and one development site.
B&P is based predominantly in the North West and has along history of profitable growth.
We have retained B&P soperational management team, will continue to operate the pub restaurants in the existing, highlysuccessful style and we will gradually add new pubs to the B&P business.
Together B&P and Blubeckers provide avery attractive opportunity to grow our Pub Restaurant business.
Market dynamics and economic backdrop We areconfident that prospects for the eating out market remain positive.
Socioeconomic factors such as an ageing population, morefemales in work and levels of disposableincomes significantly higher than in previous generations augur well for our industry.
Lifestyle changes arealso positive with an increasing propensity to spend on leisureactivities.
Eating out, particularly at our popular price points 10-16 spend per head, has become ahabitual part of most people slives and is something many are 2 2% reluctant to give up.
During 2007 the smoking ban came into effect in England and Wales, following the ban in Scotland the previous year.
Overall, we believe that TRG has IncreaseinEBITDA benefited from this as morefamilies and those with an aversion to smoking have visited our restaurants.
During most of 2007 and into 2008 much has been said and written aboutthe deteriorating economic backdrop and pressures on the consumer.
A series of successive interest rate rises starting in 2006 and continuing through into 2007 saw base rates rise by 125 basis points in effect increasing the cost of borrowing almost 30%.
The cost of servicing an already high level of personal debt thereforerose for much of the UK population.
Compounding this we saw inflation rise, by varying amounts depending upon which particular index one chose to use, and the burden of taxation increase.
Together this combination has served to make life moredifficult for the UK consumer and looking forwardinto 2008 we anticipate acontinuation of these tighter conditions.
Whilst we would not suggest that TRG is completely impervious to these economic factors, we arevery encouraged that our business has demonstrated aconsiderable level of resilience in the face of aslowing UK economy and atighter consumer market.
We believethat this is the result of anumber of factors including our popular price point and value for money, our focus on areas with higher barriers to entry and thus lower supply-side risk, the strength of our brands, consumers reluctance to forego eating out and, very importantly, the skill and application of the TRG team.
Restaurants which have opened within the last few years have performed very well, delivering strong returns and we intend to continue to open asimilar number of new restaurants each year for the foreseeable future.
Brunning &Price, Pant-yr-Ochain, Wrexham 06 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2007 We believe that interest rates and employment levels aretwo key drivers of consumer spend which can potentially impact our marketplace.
We have recently seen two reductions in base rates to the current level of 5.25% and we note that employment levels are, and areprojected to remain, high.
Whilst it is suggested that thereisscope for further monetary relaxation during 2008 we believethat, in the light of current levels of inflation as measured by the CPI, it may take some time beforethe base rate drops back below 5%.
We arealso mindful of the risks of further taxation pressures as aresult of the level of the budget deficit.
Furthermore, GDP growth is forecast to slow in 2008 to abelow trend level but, looking further ahead, thereisthe prospect of apick-up, back towards trend, in 2009.
As aresult, we have factored aless favourable macro-economic backdrop into our Chiquito, Southampton planning for 2008 than we have experienced over the last five years.
Despite this we believe that TRG is well-placed to weather these tighter conditions.
Recent trading has been solid and we continue to see excellent results from our new openings.
Cost pressures have been an issue for some time.
We identified the risk of inflationary cost pressures with respect to our input costs two years ago and, during 2006 wherewe wereable to, we took steps to remove or minimise that risk through taking out longer term typically three years fixed or capped price contracts.
This approach served us well during 2007 and we will continue to benefitfromthis in 2008 and 2009.
However, weare still exposed in some areas wherecurrently cost pressures arebeing felt mainly fresh meats and dairy milk products.
In these areas we would normallyfix prices for 6-12 months but at present we are, in most cases, eschewing fixes of morethan three months as our purchasing team anticipate areasonable possibility of prices softening later in the year.
We have also kept our menu content under regular review so as to try to mitigate the 3 0m impact of cost inflation through careful menu engineering.
In the light of the current tighter Customers served consumer market and, we believe, the importance of value for our customers we arelikely to hold offincreasing menu prices in the short term but we will be carefully reviewing this during the second quarter with the prospect of some increases later in the year.
Futureprospects 2007 was another year of good progress for the Group with both divisions achieving growth.
The current year has started well with like-forlike sales growth during the first nine weeks at 4% of which covers growth represents 70% and total revenue for the same period up 21% a 16% increase excluding B&P.
At this stage last year, like-forlike sales growth was 5% of which covers growth represented 75% and total revenue was 16% ahead.
Whilst we areencouraged by this, we recognise both the ongoing impact of acontinuation of atighter consumer marketplace and alsothe fact that our comparative like-forlike hurdles, at 8.3% and 7.
3% in quarters two and three, aredemanding.
We have made asolid start to the year and, providing thereisnot asignificant further deterioration in the UK economy, weare confident of continuing our progress in 2008.
Andrew Page Chief Executive Officer 5March 2008 Frankie &Bennys, Portsmouth 27% Earningsper sharegrowth in 2007 07 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2007
