qxd 11 7 07 11:54 am Page 6 6 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Ashtead aims to be a leader in the global equipment rental business delivering strong returns for its investors through the exploitation of growth opportunities and by being world class at what we do.
We aim to achieve these objectives by generating strong organic growth combined with growth through acquisition as well as delivering high levels of customer satisfaction.
A YEAR OF TRANSITION AND GROWTH I am delighted to be presenting my first annual report as the new chief executive of Ashtead following the retirement of George Burnett.
George made an enormous contribution to Ashtead over 22 years and on behalf of all Ashtead employees, I would like to thank him for his unstinting dedication to the Group.
Having joined Ashtead as a non-executive director in April 2005 and become chief executive designate in October 2006, I was fortunate to have the opportunity of working alongside George to ensure management continuity and a seamless transition.
The year also saw a change in chairman following the sad and untimely GEOFF DRABBLE death of Cob Stenham.
Cob will be greatly missed by us all both for his CHIEF EXECUTIVE professional drive and knowledge and the personal air that he brought to the business.
In Chris Cole, however, we have gained a chairman with a deep understanding of construction markets as a result of his position as chief executive of WSP Group plc, together with extensive experience of Ashtead and its management team, having been a director since January 2002.
Growth from both organic revenue improvement and acquisition form key elements of our strategy and 2006 7 saw notable activity.
Our Group revenue for the year was 896m, up 40% on the 638m reported last year.
During the year we enjoyed organic growth in all markets through a combination of good overall market conditions and market share gains.
In addition, the Group moved forward signicantly with the acquisition of US rental company NationsRent in August 2006 for $1bn, creating the second largest rental company both in the US and globally, serving principally the non-residential construction market.
October 2006s 15.5m acquisition of Lux Trafc Controls in the UK and its immediate integration with A-Plants existing trafc management operations makes us the largest provider of rental trafc systems in the UK.
qxd 11 7 07 11:54 am Page 7 7 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Sunbelts underlying pro forma A-Plants underlying pro forma Ashtead Technologys operating profit operating profit operating profit $272m 21m 6m up 43% up 40% up 57% at constant exchange rates THE NATIONSRENT ACQUISITION All three divisions, Sunbelt, A-Plant and Ashtead Technology, saw good The acquisition of NationsRent provided a unique opportunity to make organic growth in both revenue and underlying operating profit.
Whilst a step change in the size of the Group in North America.
The acquisition there are differences in the geographies and markets they serve, the rental provided scale with very little overlap at profit centre level and allowed business model is the same.
us to accelerate our clustering principle in key markets such as Florida, Texas and California.
In addition, it provided us with access to new markets, There were significant exceptional costs, fair value remeasurements particularly in the US North East and Upper Mid West.
and intangible amortisation totalling 117.9m 2006: credit of 14.2m.
The majority of these costs were associated with the funding of the Both businesses used the same computerised point of sale operating NationsRent transaction and realising the synergy benets available from system and the age and composition of their eet was similar to our the acquisition.
As all of the structural integration activity is now complete own.
We were confident that our business model, based around highly we do not expect any further exceptional costs associated with this incentivised profit centres operating with a large amount of autonomy transaction in 2007 8. would improve the financial return from the NationsRent assets.
Also, significant recurring cost savings were available from integrating central Net borrowings at the year-end were 915.9m 2006: 493.6m.
We have and regional functions.
stated our policy of managing our financial structure to sustain a net debt to EBITDA ratio in the range of 2 to 3 times in most circumstances.
As a To date we have achieved all our milestones in terms of the integration and result of the acquisition, we reached temporarily the upper end of this we enter the new financial year with a single business focused on further range.
By year-end we were at 2.7 times and anticipate reaching the organic growth.
The acquisition was funded by a rights issue which raised midpoint of the range, based on normal operational activity, in 2007 8. approximately 150m, drawings under a new $1.75bn senior secured credit facility and $550m of new senior loan notes.
MAINTAINING THE MOMENTUM OF THE GROUP We expect to continue to develop the Group through a combination of DELIVERING PROFITABLE GROWTH organic growth and acquisition, while ensuring we have both the financial Underlying operating profit at 150.5m was up 35.5% on the 111.1m and managerial resource to execute and integrate an acquisition successfully.
On a pro forma basis operating profit was up 34.0% to 161.2m.
Reecting the 38% increase in the number of shares outstanding Realising the organic growth potential from the acquired NationsRent following Augusts rights issue, we achieved underlying earnings per share assets will remain a key area of focus in 2008.
eet, we intend to access a broader customer base than just the pure non-residential contractor, which will allow us to both develop new higher return markets and provide an important breadth of revenue generation.
qxd 11 7 07 11:54 am Page 8 8 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED A-Plant is positioned for yet further improvement.
Its existing momentum will be supported by further investment in eet and an improved profit centre infrastructure.
In April, we began to implement a new investment programme for A-Plant.
This will involve the restructuring of its profit centre infrastructure over the coming year to create fewer, larger sites with higher levels of activity.
These larger pools of equipment and staff will improve operational efficiency and enable A-Plant to meet the needs of its customers better.
An exceptional charge of 6.2m was recorded in the fourth quarter in respect of, principally, vacant premises costs at the profit centres which will be closed as a result of the new investment plan.
Ashtead Technology will continue to develop both its onshore and offshore markets which remain strong.
In offshore, as well as the traditionally strong markets in the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico, West Africa and Asia are becoming increasingly important.
The need for oil and gas exploration to access deeper waters, together with the development of new elds will continue to provide opportunities for future growth.
The onshore markets in both environmental monitoring and non-destructive testing are developing well.
Additionally, the aging of production assets and increasing health and safety requirements in the offshore oil industry will also drive higher levels of maintenance from which we should benefit.
Finally, there is a significant opportunity to leverage the onshore business through Sunbelts locations and industrial customers.
Acquisitions have been, and will continue to form, a key part of our strategy.
Acquisitions are made to expand both our geographic footprint and the range of products which we offer.
We bring value to our acquisitions by introducing our successful business model and providing the benefit of scale.
When appropriate we will continue to look for value-enhancing bolt-on acquisitions to support our clusters in existing geographies.
We will look also to develop our specialist businesses following the successful acquisition of Lux Trafc Controls, the leading player in the niche UK trafc market.
Our specialist businesses generate higher added value as our customer base looks to outsource their planning and technical requirements as well as renting equipment.
We are a service business and we differentiate ourselves by the strength of our service offering.
Central to our service offering are our people and our systems.
We now have a 10,000 strong Ashtead team.
The nature of our business requires skilled, entrepreneurial individuals working within a highly devolved structure.
We achieve this through a dedication to training and an industry leading reward and recognition scheme.
The industry generally suffers from high staff turnover, particularly within certain job categories and within the first year of employment.
We have made good progress in improving our staff retention in recent years with a lower level of leavers as shown in the chart opposite.
This will remain a key performance indicator going forward.
9 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT We place significant importance on the use of systems to improve our Employee turnover % efficiency.
For example, each of our divisions operates integrated on line A-Plant point of sale systems which provide significant advantages to our Sunbelt employees and customers due to the visibility these single, company-wide systems provide.
Our extranets allow key aspects of the customer relationship to be managed electronically.
In addition, in the UK, our on line telematics and tracking system enables qualifying customers to see exactly where major items of equipment are at any time including if they have 41.0 been stolen.
Already there have been many instances where these tracking devices have facilitated swift recovery in the event of theft, saving our customers the cost of providing us with a replacement for the lost item.
33.1 32.3 30.6 29.2 Information technology will play an even greater role in rental in the future, 25.9 driven by the need to minimise transportation costs and the need for enhanced asset visibility.
Major projects such as the 2012 Olympics will accelerate this change.
Ashtead is at the forefront of these changes and we will continue to use our technology as a differentiator.
EMPLOYEES Ashtead is a leader in its industry because of its people and I would like to thank all our employees for their hard work and dedication.
Our employees 05 05 06 06 07 07 are often called upon to help our customers and their management teams through difficult situations, whether that be providing crucial equipment at short notice or getting a facility up and running again after a major incident such as water damage.
The pride and passion demonstrated by our employees makes our customers know they can depend on us to get things moving.
OUTLOOK Across the Group, the business has developed well in the past year and the NationsRent acquisition provides continuing opportunity from integration benets and positions us well for further growth.
The markets for all three divisions remain strong and the drive to rental, due to both the financial and operational benets of outsourcing, will continue, particularly in North America.
Given the success of the NationsRent integration to date, we are well positioned to achieve further progress in the coming year.
Ashtead will remain focused on delivery of our objective of creating and growing shareholder value.
GEOFF DRABBLE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 25 June 2007 AS6554 Ashtead front V4.
qxd 11 7 07 11:54 am Page 10 10 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 GETTING THINGS GOING AGAIN AFTER A DISASTER After a hurricane, a re, a ood or any kind of disaster, we can respond immediately and provide the equipment and expertise required to clean up, provide power and get the disaster recovery moving ahead at full steam.
When a four storey apartment building in Boston caught re, Sunbelt received a Friday night call for help.
On Saturday morning, Sunbelt delivered critical equipment the contractors needed to begin the recovery process from the damage caused by the re, smoke and water used to extinguish the re and dampen the job site.
Equipment included aerial man lifts, dehumidiers and generators to supply the power required for lighting, ventilation and interior remediation and restoration equipment.
One call was all it took to initiate the entire effort.
qxd 11 7 07 11:54 am Page 11 11 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 FACILITATING MAJOR EVENTS Ashtead is often asked to provide the behind-the-scenes equipment without which many major events would never happen.
We rent a wide variety of equipment used at rock concerts, music festivals, sporting events and many other venues.
In Charlotte, North Carolina, Sunbelt plays a critical role in race week, which culminates in NASCARs longest race, the Coca-Cola 600.
With over 150,000 fans, the Coca-Cola 600 is one of the most popular races in the Nextel Cup Series.
Each year, Lowes Motor Speedway relies on Sunbelt because they count on its range of equipment and the unparalleled level of service they receive.
qxd 12 7 07 12:51 pm Page 12 12 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 SUPPORTING THE REDEVELOPMENT OF LONDONS OLDEST HOSPITALS Following the award by the UK government of the largest ever Public Finance Initiative contract, rather than maintain and service all the necessary equipment themselves, the contractor turned to A-Plant to full this role.
The 10 year project to redevelop St Bartholomews and Royal London hospitals involves investment of more than 1bn.
A-Plant will be on site permanently during the project, allowing equipment needs to be fullled quickly through one point of contact, whether the equipment is for the main contractor or their sub-contractors.
As well as providing heavy construction equipment, A-Plant is also supplying the personal protection equipment for workers on the site, their goggles, hard hats and gloves to ensure this major project benets from the full range of our services.
qxd 11 7 07 11:55 am Page 13 13 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 ENABLING OUR CUSTOMERS TO CONTROL TRAFFIC Our A-Plant Lux Trafc division is the UK leader in providing trafc control solutions on a rental basis.
Whether our customer needs a single set of trafc lights or a complex high speed trafc management system, we provide a complete service from beginning to end.
We can be called upon to carry out a risk assessment on site, prepare scale drawings, and submit the necessary documents to the local authority for approval prior to installing the necessary equipment, monitoring it throughout the life of the project and dismantling it at the end.
Safety is a critical component of trafc management and our customers look to us to help them ensure everything works smoothly.
Our in-house training has proved so effective that we now provide it to outside organisations including the Highways Agency, major utilities, civil engineering contractors and even police authorities.
