Interview with the chief executive 6 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Interview with the chief executive How would you describe the past year?
It would be a bit of an understatement to say its been exciting.
We announced the Alcan deal in July.
We successfully closed it, as we said we would, in October.
The integration with Alcan is going well and we are looking forward to reaping synergies of US$940 million per annum by the end of 2009.
The acquisition of Alcan is just the beginning.
In May and June, we announced major expansion plans in iron ore and uranium, and we followed this with further expansion announcements in the fourth quarter.
We predict rapid expansion in iron ore and strong prospects across our portfolio of assets.
I deeply regret that four people lost their lives at operations we manage.
I am pleased to see a continued reduction in the lost time injury frequency rate and the all injury frequency rate.
Rio Tinto is all about value, and 2008 heralds a greatly expanded development pipeline.
Major investments in growth projects made or approved in 2007 total US$46 billion.
This includes the acquisition of Alcan Inc. for US$38 billion, and, on a 100 per cent basis, construction of two new iron ore mines in the Pilbara of Australia for US$2.42 billion, the underground development of the Diavik diamond mine in Canada US$563 million bringing total investment in the underground mine to US$787 million, the expansion to 30 million tonnes per year of the Hope Downs iron ore project US$350 million, the Yarwun alumina refinery expansion to 3.4 million tonnes per year US$1.8 billion, the Cape Lambert port Tom Albanese Chief executive expansion to 80 million tonnes per year US$860 million, the US$991 million investment in the extension of the Kestrel coal mine and US$300 million for the Eagle nickel project in the US.
To feed a metal hungry world we have the people, execution capability and resources to deliver these projects better than anyone else.
Is this fast growth profile a departure from your strategy?
I am a strong believer in our core values and our strategy, which is to invest in large, cost efficient, long life assets and to leverage these with the people, capital, and technologies to create enduring value for our shareholders.
There has never been a time when a development pipeline like ours is worth as much as it is today.
Our plans are all aligned with our strategy.
What has changed is the market environment, which is the strongest it has been in a generation.
Our proven strategy positions us to meet the challenges that this level of demand imposes.
We intend to stick to our mantra around value, but well need to do this smarter, well need to do this faster and well need to do this better than anyone else.
Well be doing this by bringing on more resources, which we can develop at a faster pace, which can be sold at higher prices.
This is what weve been doing this year, and this is what I intend to continue to do into the future.
One thing that we must take account of in applying our strategy going forward is that the world is rapidly changing and we have to change with it.
The worlds best orebodies include many beyond our Australia and North America heartlands, so we cannot afford to ignore more challenging parts of the world.
While being sensitive to government and stakeholder expectations, we have to be capable of operating where the worlds leading orebodies are located.
We are also in the midst of a period of unprecedented industry change.
We should not assume our asset and business mix is static.
We should continue to be alert to value adding investments and portfolio changes where we see opportunity, and where we can deliver competitive value in line with our strategy.
7 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Interview with the chief executive U54670 pp4-pp9 5 3 08 23:49 Page 7 Additional phases of development are being considered to increase How long will the current market production in 50 Mt a increments to 170 Mt a. environment last?
Rio Tinto has 1.9 billion tonnes of ore reserves and 12.3 billion tonnes of iron ore resources in the Pilbara.
Exploration is targeting Over the past five years we have watched the growth of China and to increase the mineralisation inventory to between 20 billion and its impact on our business with an initial measure of optimism and 30 billion tonnes.
Exploration drilling at Simandou has also been healthy scepticism to now what I would best describe as very high active with more than 35,000 metres undertaken in 2007.
At expectations based on real facts.
Markets are entering the fifth Simandou we are targeting to add between eight billion and 11 straight year of demand strength with virtually all minerals and billion tonnes of iron ore mineralisation to Rio Tintos inventory.
metals prices at levels significantly above their long term historical The targeted mineralisation in both the Pilbara and Simandou trends.
We are continuing to see a fundamental shift in the global areas is based on an assessment of tenure areas using surface economy towards fast and resource intensive growth as countries mapping, drilling results and other information.
Technical and like China and India continue to industrialise, urbanise and expand economic studies are not complete to enable classification as their per capita GDP, and I would expect these conditions to mineral resources or ore reserves, but results so far provide an continue for some time, perhaps for several decades.
With this indication of just how much potential we have in these areas.
strong demand, supply growth continues to be constrained, held In aluminium, Rio Tinto Alcan is the global leader in bauxite back by literally decades of underinvestment in people, in production and aluminium smelting with low cost capacity derived exploration and resources, and in mines and infrastructure.
While from a unique combination of sustainable hydropower and industry this bodes well for the future, it is of absolute importance that our leading technology.
With the commissioning of the Gove expansion mines and businesses stay globally competitive and sufficiently and the expansion at the Yarwun refinery in Australia under way, robust to weather any possible downturns.
we are also on a path to become the world leader in alumina production, doubling capacity by 2015.
The integration with Alcan is expected to yield US$940 million per year in operating synergies But what about the slowdown in the US?
by 2009, US$340 million per year more than was estimated at mid I think we should be insulated from the effects of a major US year.
We have a range of smelter upgrades in Quebec and British slowdown.
While many of our markets, like North American copper, Columbia planned, in addition to greenfield projects in Oman, aluminium and industrial minerals, depend on important sectors Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi and South Africa, plus other like US housing, our overall business is increasingly focused on projects just entering the development process.
Global aluminium global demand trends.
Clearly China, and to a lesser extent India, demand is growing strongly.
Global consumption grew by more than has become extremely important to these global trends, and this will ten per cent in 2007, with Chinese growth at 38 per cent.
Besides be even more so in the future based on strong demographic and strong Chinese consumption, increased marginal costs of Chinese economic growth prospects.
The importance of the US has declined supply will continue to support this business.
However, we will need substantially relative to that of China since 2000.
Specific examples to be particularly mindful of the impact of a strong Canadian dollar include seaborne iron ore, where the US is a negligible market on this business.
participant, or copper and aluminium, where China now consumes In copper, Rio Tintos most profitable producer, Bingham Canyon more than twice as much as the US.
The key issue for the health of in Utah, offers opportunities for growth, could operate until 2036, commodity markets over the medium term is the magnitude of any and hosts a newly discovered world class molybdenum deposit negative spillover effect from a slowing US economy on economic underneath the current open pit.
New porphyry mineralisation has activity in the rest of the world and China in particular.
We dont also been discovered below the pit walls and there are more think a recession in the US will have a significant effect on demand exploration targets within three to four kilometres of the open pit.
I for steel, copper and aluminium in China.
If there is a recession in am especially proud of everything the team at Kennecott Copper has the US, the impact on growth in Chinese GDP is expected to be one done, from difficult days just a few years ago, to its current success per cent or less.
This would still leave scope for Chinese growth at and its promising outlook.
Exploration and evaluation at La Granja levels of ten per cent.
For India, the impact of any further US in Peru has increased the extent of mineralised material several slowdown would likely be smaller because of Indias more limited times since Rio Tinto acquired the property in late 2005.
This makes exposure to world trade.
it potentially the largest undeveloped copper project in South America with a possible production rate of up to 500,000 tonnes of How do you describe Rio Tintos copper a year by 2014.
Rio Tinto has a stake in three more of the largest undeveloped performance in 2007?
copper projects in the world.
At Oyu Tolgoi in Mongolia we are targeting to produce up to 440,000 tonnes of copper per year with Rio Tinto set new annual records for production of iron ore, bauxite, valuable gold by-products and at Resolution in the US we are targeting alumina, aluminium, refined copper and refined gold.
Production is an operation of up to 500,000 tonnes per year for 40 years or more.
running at full tilt and accelerated in the second half.
Our excellent Technical and economic studies are not complete to enable production results show the momentum in our business and the classification of mineralisation of these projects as mineral resources volume growth that is the fruit of our investments over recent years.
or ore reserves, but our work so far provides an indication of our With significant expansions on track in iron ore and in aluminium, potential in these areas.
as well as the contribution of the Alcan acquisition which creates Exploration, southwest of Oyu Tolgoi, has been very promising the worlds leading aluminium producer, 2008 is set to see an with a new discovery called Heruga.
We also have a 19.8 per cent acceleration of this growth.
interest in the Canadian company that controls the Pebble coppergold deposit in Alaska, still in the early stages of planning.
We are reWhat are the highlights of your entering the nickel market with two significant projects Eagle in Michigan and Sulawesi in Indonesia that could make us one of the growth plan?
We announced the go-ahead for Eagle a One driver is iron ore, where we have developed a conceptual few months ago.
First production is scheduled to begin in late 2009. pathway to more than triple our production capacity to more than The current uranium market outlook is very positive, with prices 600 million tonnes per annum Mt a, primarily from expansions of close to record highs, and Rio Tinto is in an excellent resource up to 420 Mt a from the Pilbara and 170 Mt a from Simandou in position to sustain higher levels of production going forward.
At Simandou, feasibility studies are likely to be completed spot prices having risen sixfold since 2004, we have a window of by 2010 for first production to start in 2013 at a rate of 70 Mt a. opportunity to lock in higher contract prices over the next several Interview with the chief executive 8 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp4-pp9 5 3 08 23:49 Page 8 years.
We are already the second largest uranium producer in the global standardisation and the transfer of best practice between world and we have identified significant opportunities to expand our operations.
Our rapid integration of Alcan, with higher than our business at Energy Resources of Australia and at Rssing.
originally targeted synergies, is a great example of these new In coal, our reserve and resource position is one of the largest in systems at work.
Australia, but performance has been hampered by a lack of I envisage that One Rio Tinto will also allow us to be better infrastructure, the result of a legacy of uncoordinated responses by positioned to introduce innovative technologies across the Group.
miners, rail carriers and ports.
We hope to see the new government We are by our nature a capital and process intensive industry, and in Australia begin to address this national issue as a matter of the we are repositioning ourselves from being a fast follower to a greatest urgency.
As infrastructure challenges in New South Wales targeted innovator of technology in areas where we can make a and Queensland are alleviated and we overcome weather related difference.
An example is our goal of developing a fully automated disruptions, we will enjoy significant brownfield and greenfield iron ore mine in the Pilbara within the next five years.
expansion capabilities from thermal coal mines such as Clermont Our 2007 second half results show that we are doing better than and Mount Pleasant and our coking coal mines at Hail Creek and most in stemming the effects of industry inflation.
Recently we reaffirmed our commitment to the Australian coal sector with an investment to extend and expand Kestrel.
Where are new opportunities Meanwhile, we continue to explore for coal throughout the world.
Turning to industrial minerals, we have some exciting growth coming from?
We are now beginning to see increasing In exploration, we believe weve had an unrivalled company track Chinese demand for titanium dioxide feedstock, as we have been record in discovery among the major mining companies.
Many of foreshadowing for the past several years.
China is estimated to have our major value adding projects are the result of exploration made up 17 per cent of global titanium dioxide feedstock demand in successes, which means they were acquired at a very competitive 2007, and this is growing rapidly.
Our mineral sands project in initial investment.
For example, La Granja in Peru was acquired for Madagascar is proceeding well.
The 750,000 tonnes per year US$22 million plus a minimum investment of US$60 million and operation is due to come on stream at the end of 2008, producing has the potential to become one of the worlds largest copper some of the highest grade titanium dioxide in ilmenite in the world.
Weve maintained our commitment to exploration over Weve increased our feasibility expenditure on the Potasio Rio the years and the consistency of expenditure and activity over the Colorado potash project which remains subject to final permitting cycle has produced extraordinary results.
Looking ahead, our and approval by the board.
exploration portfolio is an exciting multi-commodity mix of In diamonds, we are making better progress with the Argyle brownfield and greenfield opportunities ranging from iron ore in the underground development and the Diavik underground project we Pilbara to bauxite prospects in Brazil, potash in Canada and coking announced late last year will extend the mine life beyond 2020. coal in Mongolia.
We have an exceptional set of assets and growth Diavik is without doubt the most profitable diamond mine in opportunities, both in established projects and exploration Canada.
We have well trained and motivated people throughout our organisation.
And we have a great track record for management What are your project priorities?
delivery in safety, in daily operations and in the execution of our capital projects.
We face the future with confidence.
We are focusing on the commodities closely linked to the metals, minerals, and energy intensive stage of development of the worlds growth economies.
Our capital expenditure in 2008 and 2009 is Any reflections on the future?
expected to be US$9 billion in each year, primarily on projects in Ive inherited a great business and a great organisation.
Our primary iron ore, copper and aluminium.
As I outlined above, we have every objective is the creation of further value for our shareholders in a reason to have confidence in demand growth in these key areas.
For market environment that is nothing short of spectacular.
Rio Tinto, example, Chinas steel production is now five times more than the with its 135 year heritage of assets, its strong organisation, people amount produced in the US.
China is building from scratch a city the and prospects, is well positioned to capitalise on the terrific size of Brisbane every month.
That takes a lot of steel from iron ore, opportunities available at this point in the market cycle.
We cannot as well as copper, for electrification, aluminium and other metals rest on our laurels though, and the fast pace of events in 2007 and minerals.
Last year, China consumed over 30 per cent of the should be seen as a guide to how we have to look to the future, being worlds aluminium and this consumption grew at 38 per cent.
ever more competitive in an ever more dynamic world.
The modernisation of our head office, introduction of our new Rio Tinto What are you doing about rising brand, and the development of new global systems under a unified One Rio Tinto is all evidence of this vision.
Im very excited about the production costs?
way things are going and our plans for value creation for the We are a global company and we are applying advantages of scale shareholders of Rio Tinto.
and breadth to improve efficiencies and create value.
Working In closing, I would like to express my thanks and appreciation to through our One Rio Tinto concept we continue to improve, with all Rio Tinto people around the world for their strong support and greater cohesion and collaboration, as a single operating dedication at this time.
We expect to achieve considerable savings by operating common systems across our diverse businesses to leverage off the critical mass of the whole.
This proved successful when applied to our safety systems, how we run procurement, and in implementing our business improvement programme Improving performance together IPT.
In the two years of the IPT programme it yielded more than US$800 million of extra value and I fully expect this to continue to grow under One Rio Tinto.
We have a target to reduce corporate function costs by US$500 million before 2010.
Every effort is being made to capture the benefits of Tom Albanese Chief executive
