Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 04 Governance Financial statements Chief Executives review Sir John Rose 45.9bn 34.06p Order book rm and announced Underlying earnings per ordinary share Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 05 Governance Financial statements 2007 was another year of significant progress The strength of our technology gives us unusually for Rolls-Royce.
We have over many years good access to growing global markets, as well as pursued a consistent strategy which has creating high barriers to entry.
The size of our order enabled us to build a robust business.
book, the longevity of our programmes and the scale of our services activity give us clearer visibility of future revenues.
We face inevitable challenges but we will continue to invest in the technologies and capability to ensure that our business is run eciently and with a strong global footprint.
Our financial results reect this progress.
We increased sales to 7,435 million 2006 7,156 million, with underlying sales growth of six per cent.
Underlying profit before tax rose by 13 per cent to 800 million 2006 705 million.
We ended the year with a net cash balance of 888 million, after making a payment of 500 million into our UK pension funds as part of our strategy to reduce overall deficits and reduce volatility.
We concluded our strategic financial review and are proposing a significant increase of 35 per cent in payments to shareholders.
Looking to the future, it is particularly encouraging that our success in global markets has strengthened our order book which ended the year at a record 45.9 billion 2006 26.1 billion.
Ours is a long-term business and it is important not to look at one year in isolation.
Twenty years ago, Rolls-Royce returned to the London Stock Exchange as a listed company.
The transformation of the company since then has been remarkable.
It seems especially tting to mark this anniversary by highlighting the progress we have made over this period against each of the elements of the Groups strategy.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 06 Governance Financial statements Chief Executives review continued We are whereour customers are.
Employees New programmes 1987 93% 100% UK UK 2007 59% 41% 50% 50% UK Rest of the World UK Rest of the World Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 07 Governance Financial statements The increasingly global nature of our markets Addressing four global markets is illustrated by the composition of our record In 1987, Rolls-Royce was in many order book, which is now balanced between respects a very dierent company.
the Americas, Europe and Asia.
The rapid increase in our business in Asia and the Middle The business was, of course, East was particularly striking in 2007, with the centred on the gas turbine order book for these regions at the same level as the total value of the order book just four but here the similarities stop.
Almost 50 per cent of our order book is from outside the traditional markets of Europe Twenty years ago, Rolls-Royce was predominantly and North America.
a UK company, with over 90 per cent of its employees based in this country.
If you look In 2007, we signicantly expanded our at the Groups sales at the time, two points international presence in all four of our business jump out at you: the extent to which revenue sectors.
We won new customers in the Americas, was dominated by UK sales and the relative Europe and Asia, often in countries in which narrowness of the Groups global penetration, previously we had little or no presence.
with Europe and North America accounting for over 70 per cent of turnover.
We were primarily a defence and civil aerospace business, with the marine and energy sectors in the early stages of development.
Now, by contrast, we are a genuinely h Trent 900 entered service global company.
Over 40 per cent of our with Singapore Airlines on workforce is based outside the UK and our the Airbus A380 employees include 50 dierent nationalities.
The Group has a eet of 12,000 large civil aero engines in service.
We manufacture in 20 countries and have customer support facilities in 50.
Singapore Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 08 Governance Financial statements Chief Executives review continued Our manufacturing capabilities, like our R&T Investing in technology, activity, have become far less UK-centric since capability and infrastructure 1987.
In the past year we have continued to Twenty years ago, almost all invest globally in new manufacturing capability.
Our priorities have been to modernise our our research and technology facilities, introduce more ecient working R&T activity took place in the practices, improve our business processes and simplify our supply chain.
By 2007, 32 per cent was we announced plans to open a major new conducted outside this country, assembly facility in Singapore to build and test with our centres of engineering large civil aero engines.
We will also be further increasing our already strong presence in the excellence spread across the US by building a facility in Virginia to assemble world.
We have developed a global and test our new RB282 engine for the next network of UniversityTechnology generation of corporate jets.
Centres UTCs, with nine of our Over the past five years we have invested around 850 million in new capital projects 29 UTCs located outside the UK.
in the UK as part of our programme to improve the operational performance of Some things, however, have not changed.
Our commitment to improving the environmental performance of our products We clearly intend to maintain a strong UK is as strong today as it was in 1987.
However, as the that technology, applied on an industrial Group continues to grow, our investments scale, is central to developing an eective and capability will reect the global spread response to climate change.
In 2007, we continued to work with customers, governments and other stakeholders to help develop solutions.
Central to our approach is our contribution to international research programmes aimed at halving aircraft noise and carbon dioxide emissions by 2020 from their 2000 levels.
Further details of the Groups environmental policies are set out in our recently published environmental report, Powering a better world, available on the Groups website at www.
com or on request from the Company.
Investment in technology, capability and infrastructure m 824 747 663 619 Gross research 601 and development 268 252 225 178 171 Capital expenditure 122 excluding IT 88 49 43 19 Net IT investment 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 09 Governance Financial statements Research and technology Geographic spread of our UTCs and R&T activity 1987 100% UK 2007 68% 32% UK Rest of the World We have University Technology Korea, and Japan.
The latest Centres in the US, Canada, University Technology Centre UK: Germany, Sweden, Norway, to open is at Pusan National Italy, India, China, Singapore, University in Korea.
v World-leading research Our network of 29 University Technology Centres is a Korea dedicated resource funded by the Group.
Through it we access the very best talents across a range of science and technology disciplines.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 10 Governance Financial statements Chief Executives review continued Today and tomorrow.
h Broad product portfolio In 2007, our dry low emission industrial RB211 was chosen to power a new gas pipeline from Africa to Europe.
Africa Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 11 Governance Financial statements In 1987, our civil aero-engine product portfolio Developing a competitive was limited to just four principal engines, one of product portfolio which, the V2500, was still in development.
The Group has successfully Today, Rolls-Royce has the most extensive product portfolio of any of the gas turbine broadened its product portfolio manufacturers, powering more than by investing in technology and 30 applications.
The breadth of the portfolio makes the business model far more robust product development and by as we are not as dependent on the success acquiring products and capability.
Although Rolls-Royce competed in aerospace, We continue to see significant opportunities marine and energy markets 20 years ago, for the introduction of new products in each it was with a much smaller product portfolio, of our market sectors.
Our strategy is to across a more limited power range.
ensure that we haveon the shelfinnovative Our research and development approach technologies for future generations of product.
of invent once and use many times has since For Rolls-Royce, product development is at allowed us to maximise technology across the heart of our competitive advantage and each of our markets.
We now have a wide range in many ways is our equivalent of acquisition of modern, ecient gas turbines in each of activity.
For that reason, each product our key sectors.
The way we have developed investment involves a rigorous examination the Trent family for aero, marine and energy of the risks and rewards in eect the markets is the best example of this approach.
equivalent of due diligence to ensure that only business cases that we believe Our marine business now has an extensive will create shareholder value are pursued.
product range, which provides a range of capabilities from ship design to power systems and controls.
Our energy business provides gas turbines, compressors and reciprocating engines for the power generation and oil and gas markets.
Our defence business produces engines for all the major military aviation markets.
These engines power around a quarter of the worlds military eet.
Our expanding product portfolio Trent 700 AE 2100 Bergen Diesels MT30 Rolls-Royce Industrial Trent LiftFan for JSF Tay 611C BR710 Trent 1000 RR300 is privatised 1987 2007 BR715 AE 3007 TP400 Trent XWB RB282 Trent 800 F136 for JSF Trent 500 Trent 900 AE 1107C Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 12 Governance Financial statements Chief Executives review continued l Taking o in major markets Growing market share and The V-22 Osprey is in service with the US Marine Corps.
our installed product base Its engine is designed and US Since 1987, we have been built by Rolls-Royce in the US.
A five-year engine production successfully growing our market contract worth US$700 million was awarded in 2007. share in each of our businesses.
Our share of the market for large civil aero engines is nearly 40 per cent and we are Europes number one, and the worlds number two, defence aero-engine producer.
We are also pre-eminent in capabilities which 20 years ago either did not exist or were at a very early stage of development.
For example, our marine propulsion business is the market leader in its eld and we have one of the worlds most successful oshore vessel ship-design businesses.
In the energy market, we are a world leader in the supply of power and compression equipment to the oshore oil and gas markets.
We are also developing our power generation business with new products such as the low emissions Bergen series of gas engines.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 13 Governance Financial statements Installed product base Addressable global market opportunity gas turbines in service product and services Europe 20,000 1987 54,000 US$2trillion 2007 over the next 20 years Asia Americas Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 14 Governance Financial statements Chief Executives review continued Our global aftermarket service network Service locations: Aerospace 17 Energy 5 Marine 28 Today, we have comprehensive through-life Developing aftermarket service arrangements in place in each of our services that add value business sectors.
These align our interests with In 1987, we supported our engines those of our customers and enable us to add value through the application of our skills and in service by oering repair and knowledge of the product.
overhaul arrangements which In 2007, underlying aftermarket service revenues often failed to align our interests grew by nine per cent and represented 55 per with those of our customers.
This growth has been achieved partly as a result of the introduction of new products, but also because our ownership of intellectual property enables us to turn data into information that adds value to our customer.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 15 Governance Financial statements Contribution to underlying Group revenues from aftermarket services x Adding value for customers We manage the engine and component assets, eet data, and provide eld services in 55% addition to repair and overhaul.
Germany We have Operations Rooms in 4,265m the UK and Germany managing eet data.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 16 Governance Financial statements Chief Executives review continued Shaping the future.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 17 Governance Financial statements Future prospects Our consistent strategy has created a business that is increasingly global in terms of its operational footprint and has access to a broad range of growing markets worldwide.
This access to markets is distinctive.
It has profoundly inuenced the nature of our order book, which has increased in line with our greater geographical spread and also reects the growing economic signicance of Asia and the Middle East.
Our strong order book, together with the long product life cycle and our ability to provide valuable services to customers, has greatly increased the predictability of our business.
Responding to these opportunities will inevitably see the Company continue to change at an equivalent or faster pace than that of the past two decades.
Our strong focus on productivity and eciency, our broad product and service portfolio and our access to global markets give us confidence that in 2008, Rolls-Royce will continue to deliver profitable growth and a positive cash ow.
Sir John Rose Chief Executive February 6, 2008 v Responsible power Car and passenger ferries powered by our low emissions Bergen K gas engine are operating in the environmentally sensitive waters of Norway.
