Our strategic priorities Constantly raising the performance of local businesses The group has a strong record of year-on-year improvements in its water and energy for each hectolitre of beer we brewed, with notional operational performance.
As a result, our standards are high, with savings of US$2 million in water costs and US$6 million in energy operating margins that are typically ahead of the industry in most costs.
Were continuing to produce more beer from given quantities of our markets.
We know, however, that we must keep improving of raw material while also improving the shelf-life and quality of our to maintain our lead.
Indeed, constant improvement is integral to products.
Weve always been committed to quality and weve now our business.
formalised this commitment through a comprehensive set of quality standards to be followed by all our breweries.
Around the world, our manufacturing capability continues to improve in terms of its productivity, efficiency and flexibility and the quality of We also have to win at the point of sale.
Unlike manufacturing, this the end product.
To help us progress, weve codified the groups activity varies widely from market to market because local conditions best practice and knowledge in the SABMiller Manufacturing Way are so different.
The underlying skills, however, are the same a set of tools and processes developed centrally but applied locally improving our distribution logistics, segmenting and analysing the to raise standards across the group.
channels to market, and ensuring the right conditions and consumer experience at the point of sale.
These are basic activities, but each The year has brought further advances.
Manufacturing efficiency has requires relentless, disciplined execution.
improved and, compared with the previous year, we consumed less More efficient production at Miller When Miller in the USA became part of the group in 2002, its Under our OEE overall equipment effectiveness measure of eight breweries were running well and the turnaround programme efficiency, Millers performance has risen from 62% in 2002 03 initially concentrated on the companys brand positioning and to 73% in the year just ended an increase of 11%.
By mid-2003, however, it was clear In total, Millers greater production efficiency has saved there were opportunities to improve production as well notably about US$30 million since 2003.
This figure, combined with by implementing the SABMiller Manufacturing Way.
savings elsewhere in the company, has exceeded the groups Through a range of measures including better training for Millers original expectations.
people and deploying them more flexibly and productively on the shop floor, the business has made considerable progress.
Miller Genuine Draft production line, Milwaukee Brewery, USA.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives review Our divisional seminar on Miller Brewing Company North America can be found at 14 www.
com en gb Investors Presentations and briefings Presentations and briefings 2007 Quarterly divisional seminars Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Group reported EBITA margin performance % We aim to reach 30% of 80% taverners in South Africa 17.5 that account for 80% of volume volume within the sector 17 16.5 12,400 In South Africa our Mahlasedi programme 16 newly-licensed has now trained some 12,400 newly-licensed taverners taverners 05 06 07 Source: SABMiller plc 2007 In China, for example, our priority is to streamline our route to market Were also becoming more sophisticated at creating the right by reducing the many tiers between ourselves and the restaurants, environment at the point of sale.
This applies equally to retail outlets bars, supermarkets, stores and street kiosks that carry our products.
and to on-premise settings such as bars and restaurants.
Our Were also capitalising on the huge popularity of the Snow brand to European businesses have led the way in creating 3D installations build closer relationships with our distributors.
In addition, as we and beer theatres with related promotions and events to lift the acquire further breweries in more places, the product has less far image of the product and create a more exciting experience for to travel which is good for both costs and quality.
the consumer at large super and hypermarkets.
Our South American businesses, meanwhile, are developing their The Europe division has also formalised best practice when it skills in segmented channel marketing.
In Colombia a country with comes to winning at the point of sale.
This has led to the SABMiller around 340,000 outlets weve broken down our channels by type Trade Marketing Way, a standardised process now being rolled out of drinking occasion and analysed the outlets, consumption patterns to other businesses.
and service needs in each case.
This process enables us to focus resources, ensuring that each channel gets the right products in the right packaging, accompanied by the right brand messages and merchandising material.
Wider distribution in South Africa Trade marketing: big idea, brilliant activation In South Africa, the informal taverns or shebeens that serve Each of our European businesses now has a specialised trade the bulk of the population are in the process of being legalised.
marketing function to manage the way we invest at the point of Once they become legitimate business owners, licensed sale.
One of the successes of this new function has been BIBA taverners can borrow money against their properties and have big idea, brilliant activation.
The concept is that each brand an incentive to invest in, and upgrade, their premises.
embodies a big idea and that brilliant activation at the point of sale brings this idea to life for the consumer.
A key objective For SAB Ltd, the change means we can now deliver straight is to position the product as more than just a commodity.
to the point of sale, making our delivery and distribution more efficient.
As the legalisation process progresses, were expanding A BIBA project typically involves an eye-catching display or our distribution with the aim of reaching directly the 30% of piece of brand theatre.
In a recent example, the Polish outlets that account for 80% of volume within the sector.
business set up point of sale materials in 8,000 retail outlets to promote one of its upper mainstream brands, Debowe Mocne.
Were also taking the opportunity to forge relationships with The displays continued the beer for men theme of the brand tavern owners, providing expertise and merchandising material advertising and its associations with reward following hard work.
to improve their premises and create a better experience for Tools were given away in the accompanying promotion under customers.
Our Mahlasedi programme has now trained some the message, Debowe Mocne supports your hobby.
As well 12,400 newly-licensed taverners in essential business skills.
as strengthening relationships with participating retailers, the project contributed to a 9% increase in brand volumes in the past year.
Newly-licensed taverner from our Mahlasedi programme.
Debowe Mocne leads the strong beer segment in Poland.
For more information on our enterprise development initiatives, visit Chief Executives review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 15 www.
com en gb Our responsibility
