Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW GRAHAM MACKAY A strategy for growth This earnings per share figure is particularly Significantly, our portfolio is weighted pleasing as it means our adjusted EPS have towards emerging markets where favourable now grown at a compound annual growth demographics and rising per capita Our 2007 results rate of over 10% since our London listing consumption are generating the highest rates represent another year in 1999.
We believe this is due to our of embedded growth.
While the global beer clear strategic focus and the disciplined market is growing at an average of 2 to 3% of good performance.
application of the groups strategic priorities.
a year, the aggregate rate of organic volume growth in our own operations was 10% for Total beverage volumes Our strategic priorities the year under review.
We have four such priorities.
The first is were up 10% on an to create a balanced and attractive global Superior brand portfolios organic basis, with spread of businesses one that is well Our strategy also takes advantage of the distributed geographically with appropriate trends as consumers around the world trade adjusted earnings exposure to both developed and developing upwards from economy to mainstream to markets.
Secondly, within each market, we premium brands and are more disposed per share also growing aim to create a full brand portfolio that to seek out different brands for different by 10% to stand at matches the aspirations and preferences of drinking occasions.
Our third and fourth priorities changes early on and part of our strategy 120 US cents.
are to keep raising the performance of local is to create a full, tailor-made portfolio of operations and to wrest maximum value brands in each local market to satisfy from our global scale.
Our progress against consumers different needs and preferences.
each of these priorities is discussed on In developed economies, the growth is pages 10 to 17 of this report.
fastest at the top end of the market.
Indeed, Our strategy is designed to take advantage in a number of mature markets, including of, and generate value from, the dominant the USA, the premium sector is the only trends in the global beer market see source of growth.
For this reason, were opposite page.
These include the growing working hard to develop a strong portfolio of importance of emerging markets, the move premium brands, both local and international.
towards premium brands and greater Exceptional operating performance competition and sophistication within local One of the trends we see is growing markets.
In many cases, we were ahead of competition between big international the industry in identifying the trends and brewers.
Hence the third of our strategic were able to gain early advantage.
We were priorities: constantly raising the performance one of the first brewers, for example, to see of our local operations.
While others were reluctant to take the risk, we pioneered SABMiller has always been good at running the buying of emerging-market businesses efficient businesses and extracting maximum and were able to build leading positions.
We intend, through constant improvement, to retain and enhance A balanced and attractive spread our reputation for superior operating skills.
of businesses This is not simply about costs.
Its also about In todays market context, there are strong the quality of our operations at each point competitive advantages in SABMillers wide along the value chain, from manufacturing global footprint.
Thanks to major transactions and distribution to the point of sale.
in North and South America and a host of smaller ones in eastern Europe, Africa and Were greatly helped by the quality of Asia, we believe our geographic mix is one our people and our strong culture of of the best-balanced in the industry.
Employees at not only are we well spread, we also have every level are empowered and accountable, commanding market positions.
In stretching our number one in China the biggest beer people, we also support them with worldmarket, by volume, in the world and class training and development.
Recent number two in the USA, the biggest profit initiatives include the launch of our Global pool in the world.
We also have leading Action Learning project to hone the strategic positions in, for example, South Africa, and leadership skills of senior managers Colombia, Poland, the Czech Republic, around the group.
Chief Executives review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 7
