10 Serco Group plc Business review Chief Executives statement Chief Executives statement Christopher Hyman, Chief In 2007 we reaped the benefits of our strategy of increasing value: we won important contracts in existing markets, continued to build our position in new markets and were awarded record levels of international business.
Business review Chief Executives statement Serco Group plc 11 In 2007 we reaped the benefits of our logistics planning and supply chain strategy of increasing value: we won consulting contract for the US Army worth important contracts in existing markets, $225m, and two contracts for the Space continued to build our position in new and Naval Warfare Systems Center to markets and were awarded record levels assist with anti-terrorism systems, with a of international business.
total potential value of around $180m.
We delivered another year of double-digit Elsewhere, we also made significant revenue growth, enhanced our margins, progress.
We were appointed preferred further increased our free cash flow and bidder for a 400m contract to operate strengthened our balance sheet.
and maintain the Dubai Metro, a contract we will be signing in March 2008, and in I am pleased to say that we maintained Australia, we won the contract to run our win rates at more than 90% for rebids Borallon Correctional Centre, worth and one in two for new bids.
We signed around Aus$100m over five years, as well 3.6bn of contracts and were appointed as a four-year safety camera contract in preferred bidder for further contracts Victoria valued at Aus$90m.
Such successes demonstrate the growing Highlights of our success in existing international demand for the services we markets included the substantial increase have developed within the UK market.
in value of our Royal Navy marine services contract to around 750m over 15 years, Appropriately, the theme for this report is and the signing of the 450m, 30-year increasing value.
In delivering essential contract to provide services to the new services we touch many people and our NHS Forth Valley Acute Hospital.
challenge is to deliver increasing value to them all customers, employees, The capabilities we acquired in 2005 with investors and the communities in which ITNET and RCI enabled us to enter we operate.
This focus has been exciting new markets.
Two good consistent throughout our history and as examples were homeland security, where with so much in Serco, the starting point as a key member of the Trusted Borders is our customers and by extension the consortium we were awarded a ten-year citizens they serve.
Given that the Home Office contract to develop and expectations of citizens rise every day, implement the e-Borders project, and increasing value means a continuous the local government strategic partnership improvement in quality.
market, where we won a contract with Glasgow City Council worth 265m to At the same time, our customers expect provide property, information and significant savings.
As noted elsewhere in communication technology services.
this report, a study by the Serco Institute shows that introducing competition into A record level of international awards was public services delivers average cost also a key feature.
Our performance in the reductions of 20% and sometimes much US was particularly strong, with wins more.
including a renewed and significantly increased contract with the US Postal Service worth $260m, a cost analysis, 12 Serco Group plc Business review Chief Executives statement But there is more to increasing value than Our success in 2007 keeps us optimistic just improving quality and cost.
At the end of the year, customers are also asking us to manage our order book stood at a record 14.7bn more and more complexity for them as and we were preferred bidder on well as to support them with their broader contracts valued at 1bn, giving us social objectives.
excellent visibility of our revenue for the next few years.
Being a thriving, values-led company creates value for employees.
Our public Opening new markets in the UK and service ethos makes Serco a rewarding overseas has also significantly increased place to work, helping us to attract and the breadth and depth of our pipeline of retain the best people.
Our growth opportunities, which now stands at enables our people to take their careers 27bn.
The breadth gives us confidence in new directions.
of achieving double-digit growth for the foreseeable future, while the depth allows The quality of our people is reflected in us to select higher margin work, enabling the awards we receive.
Amongst these, us to deliver further margin improvement.
for the fourth year in a row, Serco was voted the UKs most admired support This optimism is not limited to our services company and this year was financial performance.
The strength of our ranked as the countrys fourth most business, our commercial know-how and admired company overall.
These awards, the deep public services ethos which our conducted by Management Today, have people bring to life every day mean that become a benchmark for excellence.
we will continue to increase value for all of our stakeholders.
Increasing value for our customers and other stakeholders also increases value for investors.
Delivering high-quality services helps us to renew and expand existing contracts and win work with new customers.
Our ability to address the broader needs of our customers helps us to establish a leadership position that also drives our growth.
