Group Chief Executives review Introduction We believe that to satisfy our customers and be cost effective we must raise professional standards across the entire business.
Other industries have demonstrated that higher quality and continuous improvement leads to lower costs.
There is every reason why Severn Trent in particular and the water industry in general, can do the same.
This is the best, probably the only way, to satisfy customers, regulators, employees and shareholders.
Colin Matthews Group Chief Safety is a prime example of the principle we are pursuing.
Our Executive performance improved in the year, which is welcome, but we can make more progress.
The skills and attention to detail which achieve higher The successful transformation of the group standards of safety are the same as those we need to improve our into a focused water company has enabled environmental impact.
the senior executive team to devote a Moreover, as we achieve higher safety standards our operations will substantial amount of its time to operational become more cost effective.
There is no trade off between higher standards and profits they are closely aligned.
improvement in our core water business.
Operational improvement With the demerger of Biffa and the sale of the US Laboratories completed by the end of 2006, the groups senior executive team has concentrated on operational improvement.
The group already has clear strengths for example, Severn Trent Waters consistent attainment of high water quality standards.
In order to satisfy our customers and deliver continuing growth for shareholders, we need to improve continuously in all areas.
Therefore, in 2006 07 we examined every aspect of Severn Trent Waters current performance.
We benchmarked it against companies in the water and sewerage sector and also in other sectors.
We identified major opportunities for improvement and we drew up detailed action plans for achieving those improvements.
We have identified 20 critical success factors against which we will measure our performance and progress.
We have chosen these with great care, because they represent what we believe are the key concerns for customers, regulators, employees and shareholders.
These 20 factors will be represented by 20 KPIs.
In all but two cases, we have defined our actual performance based on our benchmarking exercise and we propose to use these as a basis for assessing our performance going forward.
For each indicator, we will set ourselves ambitious targets for the coming years, and have drawn up action plans for achieving them.
Some improvements will be effected relatively quickly: others are longer term, going beyond the current AMP4 period.
We have completed the integration of the head office and Severn Trent Water teams and now have one executive team focused on our core water activities.
As a result of this integration, we expect to reduce our recurring overhead costs by between 6 million and 10 million over the coming 12 months.
Over the next five years, we expect staffing levels permanent and agency in Severn Trent Water to be reduced by around 600 posts.
Our plans indicate around 130 of this total being achieved in the financial year 2007 08.
We expect to incur around 24 million of restructuring costs over the remaining three years of the AMP4 period, with around 8 million being incurred in 2007 08.
6 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Direction We have changed the divisional structure.
In place of our previous On customer service too, I am pleased to report good progress.
We functional structure, which had distinct teams working on planning, recruited and trained more staff and fixed problems with our IT billing engineering and operations, we have created integrated teams, one system.
Again, by the end of this year, this work was showing focused on clean water, one focused on waste water and one focused on encouraging results.
In the last quarter of the financial year, we were customer relations.
once again approaching the levels of service that our customers and regulators expect from us.
Like the integration of Plc and Water teams, this new structure will raise standards and drive greater efficiency.
It also aligns the organisation Water Technologies and Services with the processes that matter to our customers.
This business now comprises our Water Purification, Operating Services and UK Laboratories businesses.
It produced good results in 2006 07.
In the following pages of this report, we describe those KPIs and our current position on them.
In future years, we will continue to measure We made a number of disposals in the 2006 07 financial year, and one and report progress against the targets for each indicator.
acquisition following the year end.
We sold our stake in Aquafin NV to the Flemish government for 29.6 million.
We also sold our Pipeline Safety Products and Services assets to ADS LLC and we sold our Aztec At Severn Trent health and safety is vitally important to us as a instrumentation product line to ABB Limited.
In 2006 07 ex Biffa, Property and US laboratories our acquired the assets of United Kingdom based Quay Technologies health and safety performance was 24% better than the previous year: Limited for 1.9 million plus potential additional consideration of up there were 7.1 RIDDOR incidents per 1,000 employees, compared to to 5.1 million tied to future earnings.
We reached our target for the year, but the figures are manufactures a proprietary ultraviolet technology for use in water still too high.
We aim to improve continuously in this area.
We devote huge attention to health and safety for two reasons.
It is These transactions enable us to concentrate on our core strengths, and vitally important at a very personal level, because every safety incident on higher margin and higher growth areas.
We have a twofold strategy and every day lost has a human impact.
But it is also critical at for achieving organic growth in these areas.
First, we are expanding our business level.
The skills and attention to detail that achieve higher existing technologies into new geographical markets and secondly, we safety standards are the same as those that achieve higher operational are taking new technologies into our existing markets.
and environmental standards and productivity.
Outlook Therefore, as our operations achieve higher safety standards, they will In 2007 08 we expect to make good progress in Severn Trent Water also achieve greater operational efficiency.
Far from trading off higher on the AMP4 contract and on our own improvement plans.
We have safety standards against profit goals, we pursue both together.
demanding targets in our capital programme, in water and waste Our stakeholders priorities quality, in customer service and in other areas.
We intend to achieve I have said that the KPIs represent the key concerns for our stakeholders.
those targets cost effectively, providing value for our shareholders.
In 2006 07 two concerns in particular have dominated our relations We also have to invest to meet longer term targets: the requirements with many stakeholders: leakage and customer service.
of the Water Framework Directive: the challenges of adapting to climate Our leakage increased in the prior year 2005 06.
As we announced in change and reducing our own carbon footprint.
this last year, 2006 07, we devoted greater resources to leakage The investment in reaching those targets, in process improvements and management.
We employed more people, invested in new leak in higher standards will go hand in hand with operational efficiency and detection technology, fixed 37,000 leaks, 8,000 more than the previous improvement.
So as we implement those investments for the AMP4 year and invested almost 20 million more than the previous year.
period and beyond, we are confident they will lead to higher levels of This effort has reduced our leakage this year but it was not until the customer satisfaction as well as strong financial performance.
month of March 2007 that we attained a monthly level of leakage commensurate with our Ofwat annual target.
Therefore, notwithstanding The provision of water and waste water services requires operational this reduction, we believe that we will not attain the annual average and investment planning over the long term.
We are working with target level of leakage.
internal experts and external stakeholders to identify and understand the key challenges we face over the next 25 years, ranging from obvious We have kept Ofwat fully informed of our progress and we are in the ones like climate change and carbon footprinting, to more industry process of finalising and verifying our leakage data for submission in specific ones like separation of surface water or catchment degradation our annual June Return, which will be submitted in a few weeks.
In due and the impact they could have on our assets and their ability to course we will be discussing with Ofwat our ongoing plans and deliver the service customers expect.
This work will establish the commitments to maintain our progress in reducing leakage.
context for our short and medium term planning processes and also Reducing leakage will remain a priority in 2007 08 and we are inform our Strategic Direction statement for Ofwat by the end of this determined to maintain the good progress we have made in the second calendar year.
We will continually update this long term planning half of 2006 07.
We are in a good position going into this new year.
