Chief Executive Officers review Leading the next generation Our unique business model, strong product portfolio, and exceptional people continued to serve Shire well throughout 2007 - yielding tremendous benefits to patients and physicians, solidifying our reputation as a leading global specialty biopharmaceutical company, and producing record revenues.
Our gains were neither accidental nor unexpected.
By building on established strengths in chosen specialist niches, we delivered differentiated product in areas of unmet patient needs and fulfilled our own ambition to both shape and lead the markets we serve.
Particularly gratifying, in 2007, was the fact that the successful commercialization of new products for patients challenged by ulcerative colitis, ADHD and Hunter syndrome was achieved during a time of promising growth in our development pipeline.
In other words, we leveraged immediate opportunities while emboldening Shires future.
Likewise, over the course of the year we took a number of steps designed to strengthen our organization as a whole our systems, our technologies, and our people.
By years end we had not just met the goals wed set out for ourselves: wed built a framework for continued success.
Among the early headlines for us at Shire was the acquisition of New River Pharmaceuticals Inc. a deal that granted us full control of the development and marketing of VYVANSE.
Viewed as the nextgeneration ADHD medicine, VYVANSE is a pro-drug, indicated for pediatric use, offering patients long duration and significant efficacy throughout the day.
With a strong patent running through to June 2023 in the US and June 2024 in Europe, VYVANSE is expected to make long-term gains in a market that continues to grow by 4-6% annually in the US and has also begun to emerge in Europe, where understanding of ADHD is developing.
Shire has filed for the adult ADHD indication with the US Food and Drug Administration FDA and expects to hear from the FDA in the second quarter 2008.
The adult segment of the ADHD market is not only the fastest growing market segment but also has the potential to be significantly larger than the pediatric segment.
Later in the year, a deal with Amicus Therapeutics Inc. gave us rights to three promising projects AMIGAL for Fabry, PLICERA for Gaucher, and AT2220 for Pompe disease that complement and strengthen our Shire HGT portfolio.
Shortly before year end we signed an agreement with Alba Therapeutics Corporation for worldwide rights, excluding US and Japan, for a gastrointestinal medicine known as SPD550 formerly known as AT-1001 to treat celiac disease, an autoimmune disorder characterized by small intestinal inflammation triggered by gluten.
Because the only current treatment for celiac disease is complete elimination of gluten from the diet, this medicine will, we believe, once again show Shire as a champion for diseases with unmet need.
As a biopharmaceutical company focused on specialist physicians, we refined our sales teams and selling approaches throughout 2007.
The launch in March of LIALDA MEZAVANT for the induction of remission in patients with active, mild to moderate ulcerative colitis, proved the value of those investments, as the once-daily oral formulation quickly captured market share.
By the end of the year, Shires gastrointestinal franchise of PENTASA and LIALDA had more than 25% of the US oral mesalamine market.
In December 2007, the product had been launched in the UK and in Ireland and further EU and Canadian launches are planned for 2008.
Available in 25 countries, FOSRENOL has now captured 8% of the US phosphate binder market, and in Europe there has been rapid market share growth with FOSRENOL gaining a 12% market share in Germany and 19% in France by the end of 2007.
Looking ahead, FOSRENOL could benefit from the FDA considering additional indications in Chronic Kidney Disease CKD pre-dialysis patients as the pre-dialysis market could represent a growth opportunity for FOSRENOL.
In October 2007 an FDA Advisory Committee voted by majority in favor of recommending the use of phosphate binders to treat stage 4 CKD patients with hyperphosphatemia.
This resulted in the FDA agreeing a pathway to secure 5 Chief Executive Officers review continued approval for the stage 4 indication which, subject to regulatory approvals, could mean a launch date for this new indication in 2009.
Likewise, the launch of DYNEPO, which is indicated for the treatment of anemia in patients with CKD, was launched in Germany, the UK, Italy and Ireland.
By the end of 2007 product sales exceeded $14 million.
Finally, ELAPRASE, the human derived enzyme replacement therapy for the treatment of Hunter syndrome, exceeded even our own high expectations.
By the close of 2007 the product was approved in 34 countries around the world.
In the European Union alone, pricing and reimbursement had been secured in ten countries.
In October, product approval was received for Japan where Genzyme Corporation is our commercial partner.
Regulatory applications are currently pending in other important markets such as Brazil.
As Chief Executive Officer I have felt privileged to be one of the more than 3,400 people who work together at Shire.
We are willing to take the right risks, yet driven by genuine concern for the constituencies we serve.
As Shire continued to make gains on many business fronts, as youll read in the pages of this report, we also deepened our relationships with communities around the world marching on behalf of patients in need, coming together in food banks, playgrounds, hospitals and elsewhere to raise both funds and awareness of what can be achieved by passion, commitment and togetherness.
We also took care to better manage and reduce our carbon footprint by putting into place several green initiatives.
We are focused, in 2008, on making Shire an even stronger global specialty biopharmaceutical company.
Over the next few years, subject to obtaining regulatory consent, we have plans to launch a number of new products including INTUNIV for ADHD, DAYTRANA and VYVANSE in the EU and VYVANSE adult indication in the US.
As we pursue these and other goals we will, of course, continue to leverage and refine the business model that has served us so well.
We will continue, in other words, to lead the way.
