Chief Executives statement Keith Butler-Wheelhouse The past financial year has seen Smiths exit the aerospace market Chief Executive in which it has operated for some 90 years and come of age as the worlds leading detection business capable of forging its own future.
In January we announced the sale of our aerospace businesses to General Electric Company GE and this resulted in the return of 2.1 billion of the proceeds to shareholders.
This transaction was completed during the second quarter creating a new-look Smiths founded on three excellent divisions with reduced debt down to 588m from 923m last year, improved growth prospects, increasing margins and excellent cash conversion.
Looking at this years results, headline pre-tax profit increased by 9% in 2007, while headline operating profit increased only slightly, held back by a 21m currency translation effect.
On an underlying basis, sales increased by 5% and headline operating profit by 7%.
Sales Driving for Full Potential In past Annual Reports I have outlined how we use the Smiths Full Potential process to identify the management actions needed to achieve the best possible long-term performance.
And in financial 2,161m terms Full Potential is the performance arising from excellent execution of these management actions combined with a market Headline pre-tax profit environment that meets expectations.
In practice, we establish a 9% programme of both incremental and step change to take the business to a higher level of performance.
344m Last year I spoke about metrics that demonstrate the trajectory of the Full Potential process.
The blue box on the facing page illustrates how Statutory pre-tax profit these metrics and other non-financial factors measure progress in achieving the six fundamental strengths that are the basis of our Full Potential programme.
These six strengths help us to shape Smiths, defining our markets, creating opportunities and growing from our 256m core businesses.
In the following passage I have highlighted recent business examples that illustrate in practice how we are successfully executing implementation of the Smiths Full Potential process.
Strategy in action Operating in sectors of high growth: Across Smiths we focus on the sectors where high growth can be achieved and work hard to secure this growth.
This is noticeable in Specialty Engineering where Interconnect and John Crane are successfully exploiting the high-growth wireless communications and energy markets.
A continuing theme for this year has been the growing need across the world for enhanced vigilance in response to the attempts of terrorists to disrupt our lives.
Smiths Detection has played a major role in this.
In airports, for example, the newly-introduced HI-SCAN 6040aTiX will be the first system deployed that allows automatic explosives detection at security checkpoints which screen carry-on luggage.
With the implementation of this ground-breaking technology, Smiths Detection is helping airports and airlines tackle the key issue of enhancing security while trying to ensure the flow of passengers onto aircraft.
4 Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Smiths Full Potential programme: How we do what we do Our six fundamental What this means How we measure strengths in practice performance Operate in sectors We choose to operate in sectors of high growth.
Each of our Sales growth 1 of high growth three divisions has an attractive margin prole, with a strong profit Growth presence in sectors that have high barriers to entry.
Reach deep into We focus on getting the most appropriate geographic footprint Geographic footprint 2 global markets for manufacturing, sales and support.
As we establish more of our manufacturing in developing countries, we gain the benefit of lower costs and of direct entry into those markets.
Develop technology to help Technology is our lifeblood.
We anticipate change, invest R&D Sales ratio 3 customers succeed in product development, and make appropriate acquisitions to gain competitive advantage and thus drive future growth.
In addition, our manufacturing know-how is an important part of securing competitive advantage.
Deliver constant Smiths drives hard to improve operational efficiency.
Cash generation 4 improvement Throughout the business there is a focus on productivity.
Return on shareholders funds We measure results in terms of both gross and net margin, Margin improvements seeking continually to reduce overheads and costs.
Improve the business mix We rene our prole to the areas of best opportunity.
Since Cash generation 5 2001, in addition to the sale of our aerospace businesses, Return on shareholders funds we have generated disposal proceeds of around 1 billion, Margin improvements spending a similar amount on acquisitions that strengthen our technologies and market presence.
Do business the right way Smiths always seeks to maintain high ethical standards Safety and environmental indices 6 its what we believe in, and what our customers, employees Code compliance and all other stakeholders have a right to expect.
People development Reaching deep into global markets: In the UK, John Crane has invested some 4 million in a state of the The exceptional global reach of Smiths is clearly evident throughout art high-pressure test facility.
This facility, when completed, will be our operations, whether in developing markets in Russia or moving one of the most technologically advanced of its kind in the world and manufacturing to Mexico.
Building the right manufacturing, sales, it will help in the development of the ground-breaking equipment our R&D and support footprint is a vital element in the daily process of customers need to increase the size of the compressors used in gas optimising costs while maximising customer service.
In the past pipelines, more efficiently delivering gas from production facility to we have reported developments in China, India and Russia and we end users.
continue to build capacity and presence in these countries.
Another Delivering constant improvement: way of reaching more deeply into markets is via e-commerce.
Outside Across Smiths, we are continually seeking to improve how we do the US, following an e-business initiative, Smiths Medical has seen things.
This is not just a question of manufacturing, but includes all a 35% growth in website sales of its products.
Electronic transactions aspects of the back office, sales and support activities.
In each division are now a significant proportion of total sales in some territories, we are investing in enterprise-wide IT systems that offer long-term with India proving to be a particularly strong market.
Developing technology to help customers succeed: Nowhere is this process of change more profound than in Smiths The application of technology to help our customers is the core Medical.
This is multi-faceted work: we are transferring production that runs throughout Smiths.
In Medical, for example, our pump from high-cost sites principally in the UK and US to plants in lower technology is helping to move people from acute care in hospitals cost regions, including in Mexico: we are introducing a common to chronic care through clinics and at home.
This technology thread computing platform across Medical to improve supply chain is never more apparent than in Smiths Specialty Engineering where, management and customer service: and we have been adding based on strong relationships with customers, we deliver a range capacity at our highly-automated plants producing safety devices of solutions to meet their rigorous needs.
The reliability of Smiths in the US.
Interconnect products has ensured they are consistently used in major space exploration projects.
Most recently, attenuators, Such scale of change brings great benefits margins have already manufactured by Interconnect business EMC, have been selected improved, but the business was held back by this supply chain by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, disruption, this has now been resolved.
Overall Smiths Medical for its Mars Science Laboratory to be launched in 2009. will be greatly enhanced by its reconfiguration.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 5 Chief Executives statement continued Improving the business mix: These changes are also reflected in the Smiths Executive Committee Aerospace represented 37% of Smiths sales in 2006 and for many which is illustrated here: it was the division that defined the most recent identity of Smiths.
The Smiths Executive Committee Boards rationale behind this transaction is set out by the Chairman in Keith Butler-Wheelhouse his statement.
I would add that this is another example of how Smiths constantly reviews its business profile, ensuring that we have the mix that best exploits opportunities.
David Lillycrop John Langston Director & General Counsel Finance Director On 21 March 2007, Smiths and General Electric Company GE announced that they had conditionally agreed to form a joint venture Group Managing Directors to be named Smiths GE Detection, of which Smiths would have had Chris Fox Stephen Phipson a 64% share and management control.
After careful consideration, Communications Detection Smiths and GE were unable to agree on a strategic vision for the combined business and on 19 September decided not to proceed Arnold Wagner Srini Seshadri Human Resources Medical to form the joint venture.
Paul Cox As an independent business and the world leader in its field, Smiths Specialty Engineering Detection has the flexibility, resources and technology to continue to serve our customers as their needs change and grow.
Looking forward Smiths continues to build leadership positions in dynamic markets Doing business the right way: and, looking ahead, the outlook in its sectors remains robust.
All three The sixth strength Doing Business the Right Way is central divisions have made a good start to the new financial year and the to everything that we do and is illustrated in the section devoted Board is confident that Smiths can achieve an enhanced performance to Corporate Responsibility in this report pages 19-20 and in in the current year and beyond.
the expanded electronic report available at: www.
Over the course of the past years we have built a business that provides products and services that make the world safer, healthier The past year has seen Smiths team up with the Centre for the Study and more productive.
I think these are excellent markets in which to of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews have a presence and offer continued reasons for optimism regarding which looks at the fundamental causes of terrorism.
We are proud the future of Smiths.
to be helping this world-leading institution in its work to better understand the causes and drivers of what is increasingly impacting I step down in December after 11 years as Chief Executive of the peoples lives.
Group and I would like to thank all of the employees, past and present, who have contributed to the success, supported the changes and Smiths people driven the business forward.
My successor, Philip Bowman, is an A year dominated by the scale of change we have seen has meant that extremely able leader and I know that he will take Smiths to the next hundreds of Smiths people have been called on to engage in activities level of achievement and success.
I wish him and all my Smiths that are additional to their normal day job.
Everyone rose colleagues good fortune.
magnificently to the challenge of new and extra tasks that had to be conducted, often in highly confidential circumstances.
For that I thank everyone and this includes our former aerospace colleagues now working for GE Aviation.
Completion of the Aerospace sale also meant that a share of annual head office costs could no longer be allocated to that division and Keith Butler-Wheelhouse these were shared across the continuing activities in 2007.
To address Chief Executive this, we have carried out a review of head office operations, examining both the scale of activities and in some cases whether these activities are indeed appropriate.
As a result of this process we have largely completed a rationalisation of the head office functions and we expect to reduce head office costs by 6m in the year ahead and for this saving to rise to 8m in the years following.
This change, together with the sale of Aerospace, has led to a number of long-standing colleagues leaving Smiths.
Their contribution, together with that from the 21,000 current Smiths employees, has been truly appreciated by myself, fellow Executive Directors and the whole Board.
6 Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
