CHAIRMANS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Dear Shareholders portfolio.
Our first field discovery on Block FInanCIal anD OperatInG 9-2 offshore Vietnam, the Ca Ngu Vang reSUltS Our philosophy since inception has been CNV field, is scheduled to come on After tax profit reached a record high for that we believe the bulk of value creation in stream late in the second quarter or early the second consecutive year rising from the independent oil and gas sector comes in the third quarter of this year.
Despite $29.1 million in 2006 to $32.3 million in through the drill bit.
We believe that the delays attributable to the unitisation 2007.
The Companys entire production past year, while inconclusive regarding implications of our second field discovery, is attributable to its interest in Block 10 in our high profile exploration programme in the Te Giac Trang TGT field on Block 16-1 Yemen.
Profit increased despite planned Vietnam, very much lends credence to this offshore Vietnam, we fully expect an official production curtailment during the year to philosophy.
declaration of commerciality before the end accommodate an expansion of the East of the first half of 2008.
Shabwa Development Areas production Our persistence in pursuing the potential and injection capacity, leading to production in what was once a rather unconventional With the first well set to spud during net to the Companys working interest play type in Yemen continued to reap the second half of 2008, the Companys decreasing from 6,766 barrels of oil per day dividends as we once again had a reserves Africa portfolio moves closer to the value BOPD in 2006 to 6,316 BOPD in 2007. upgrade on Block 10.
The culmination of building phase.
Our core area in the high our efforts in Yemen most likely will be our potential Congo Basin grew during 2007 With almost continuous drilling in Vietnam realisation of value from the project as, in with the addition of an interest in the and Yemen, and with the facilities expansion February 2008, the Company announced Cabinda North Block, onshore Angola.
in Yemen, the Groups capital expenditures it had entered into a conditional sale and In early 2008, the portfolio was expanded again rose year on year equalling $178.6 purchase agreement for the sale of its eastward to include Block 5 in the Albertine million in 2007 versus $114.3 million the interest in the East Shabwa Development Graben of the Democratic Republic of previous year.
The Company continued to Area for $465 million, subject to certain Congo Kinshasa.
fund its commitments via operating cash financial adjustments.
The disposal is part flow of $71.9 million and with the remainder of SOCOs strategy of realising value at the Numbers wise, 2007 may at first glance of proceeds from the convertible bonds appropriate stage of an assets life-cycle appear to be unexciting as much of the issued in 2006 leaving a cash balance of and reinvesting the capital in other areas of years achievements were benchmarks $68.3 million at year end 2007, as compared the portfolio to build shareholder value.
towards the significant activities set to with $187.8 million at year end 2006. continue into 2008.
However, when While the final outcome of the 2007 reviewed in hindsight 2007 could prove to The proceeds from the disposal of the drilling programme in Vietnam has yet to have been one of the more transformational Groups Yemen assets, if the transaction be concluded, as we continue to drill the years since the Companys inception.
In the is finalised, will strengthen the Companys high profile Te Giac Den side track well matter of a few months time, we expect to balance sheet and provide funding for TGD-1XST1, it is fair to say that our early report results of the high profile TGD well, existing exploration and development recognition of the opportunities available finalise the sale of SOCO Yemen, achieve opportunities and other opportunities that in Vietnam has already resulted in this first oil in both Vietnam and Thailand and may arise.
In addition, the Group has raised becoming the prized asset in SOCOs initiate drilling in West Africa.
short term debt finance to provide the 06 06 OvervIew Ed Story Chief Executive Officer Rui fide Sousa Chairman necessary financial flexibility in the short to relinquished the remainder of the Block The newly commissioned PVD-1 rig began intermediate term.
excluding the CNV field development area.
its two year contract by spudding the TGD-1X well on Prospect E in April 2007 The Directors recommend no dividend as On Block 16-1, exploration wells drilled to test the deep potential in the basin.
the reinvestment of cash will be utilised during 2007 targeting the Miocene, the The well encountered hydrocarbons in to fund our ongoing exploration and interval which resulted in the significant TGT two Oligocene clastic sequences, which development activities.
discovery in 2005, proved disappointing were separated by a volcanic layer.
Well with a series of wells being plugged and logs over the upper sequence indicated 2007 OperatIOnS revIew abandoned including the Te Giac Cam 1X approximately 30 metres of net pay.
After Vietnam well on Prospect S, the Te Giac Hong 1X drilling through the volcanics, the well Exploration exploration well to evaluate the L North encountered a lower clastic sequence The most significant concrete news prospect and the Te Giac Lam 1X well, with oil and gas shows.
However, the mud originating in 2007 from Vietnam on which tested a Miocene four-way closure weight required to control the pressure and the exploration front was the grant by on one of the Basement ridges of the O gas indicated downhole pressures at the the government of Vietnam of the prospect.
The first of these exploration wells upper limit of the safe operating capability extension of the exploration licence on was spudded in March utilising the Trident 9 of the drilling rig.
In January 2008, the Company rig, which was subsequently released having had to be halted after only 22 metres received formal notification that the completed its contract.
The Adriatic XI drilling of the sequence had been penetrated.
Prime Minister of The Socialist Republic rig began its two year contract in July when High pressure and temperature HPHT of Vietnam had granted the extension it was mobilised to drill the second and third also meant that the section could not be of the deadline of the Hoang Long Joint Miocene targeted wells before moving on to logged.
In addition to having to deal with Operating Companys obligation of drill an Oligocene well, prior to re-entering the the operational challenges caused by surrendering the remainder of the Block TGD well to drill the TGD-1XST1.
intersecting two over pressured zones in this 16-1 Contract Area until 6 June 2008.
HPHT prospect, the rig experienced a series Whilst we had some encouragement in of control system failures, which potentially The exploration phase of work on Block each of these wells, from the possibility of could have compromised safe continuation 9-2 offshore Vietnam was concluded in finding hydrocarbons in deeper pay zones of drilling operations.
Thus after drilling for 2007 when the Ca Ong Doi 2X COD-2X to indications of a new play type, the primary approximately 100 days, with inconclusive well was drilled during the first quarter targets generally proved non-commercial results, the TGD-1X well was temporarily on the COD structure to evaluate the due to lack of reservoir quality.
possibility that the clastics play on Block a well drilled on the AA prospect, the Voi 16-1 extended into this Block.
This well Nau 1X well, drilled to evaluate a four way The Adriatic XI rig was moved on was plugged and abandoned when the closure in the Oligocene interval, which had location to drill the TGD-1XST1 well in Lower Miocene sands were determined to proved productive in the Voi Trang discovery November 2007 and the drilling remains not be charged with hydrocarbons.
With in 2002, was plugged and abandoned after in progress at the time of this writing.
the exploration licence expiring on Block encountering poorly developed sands with It was impossible to envisage that when 9-2 in December of 2007, the Company insufficient porosity to warrant testing.
we spudded the TGD well on the E SOCO International plc 06 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 07 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement continued The disposal of SOCO Yemen Pty Limited will enable SOCO to generate long term value by reinvesting the proceeds in the development of its core assets, particularly in Vietnam.
rui fide Sousa Chairman prospect on Block 16-1 offshore Vietnam suggested an extension of the TGT field sale of its interest in the East Shabwa in April of last year, that we would still be and brought unitisation implications.
Details of the anticipating the outcome almost a year Although it has subsequently been borne transaction can be found in The Financial later.
But, a combination of operating out that there is a small extension of the Review section of this report.
problems with the two rigs involved and TGT field on a neighbouring block, many challenging downhole environments have of the equity implications have been Republic of Congo Brazzaville put us precisely in this situation.
We eagerly agreed with the other consortium and Initial processing and Pre Stack Depth anticipate the outcome.
an initial reserve allocation report, the Migration of the seismic data have been first step for agreeing commerciality, has completed.
Interpretation continues albeit Development been filed with Petrovietnam.
Barring any slightly behind schedule.
SOCO Exploration Development drilling commenced in further complications, we fully expect the and Production Congo SA SOCO EPC the CNV field on Block 9-2 when the declaration of commerciality for the TGT expects to tender for a multi-well drilling Petrovietnam Drilling and Well Services field to be granted before the end of the programme likely to commence in the drilling rig, the PVD-1 which had been first half of 2008. second half of 2008. commissioned during the year, continued its two year contract by spudding the Yemen In March 2008, SOCO EPC assigned a CNV-1P well in September.
The well flowed Drilling activity with three rigs continued portion of its interests to Petrovietnam at approximately 10,000 barrels of liquid throughout 2007 as the East Shabwa Block Exploration Production Corporation Ltd. per day 30% water cut on an abbreviated 10 Consortium continued the programme PVEP.
The assignment of interests is test as is planned for all of the development of appraisal and development of the Kharir subject to approval of the appropriate wells to ensure that timely progress is Basement.
In January 2008, production from regulatory authorities of the Government of made toward the target first oil date at the East Shabwa concession reached the the Republic of Congo Brazzaville, waivers or near the end of the second quarter of 100 million barrel milestone.
Daily production of any third party preferential rights and 2008.
The second development well in was back to peak levels in early 2008, only certain obligations of PVEP.
the planned three producer, one injector limited by the capacity of the processing development drilling programme spudded equipment.
Water injection rates reached Democratic Republic of Congo early in February 2008.
Meanwhile, major approximately 50,000 barrels of water Kinshasa facilities and equipment orders proceed per day BWPD into the Basement, with In August 2007, the Group received apace to meet the planned onstream date.
individual injectors accepting in excess of the Cabinet approval of its Production Sharing original 2,500 BWPD design limit.
We expect Contract PSC on the 800 square Progress toward development on the TGT that this will be a positive development for the kilometre Nganzi Block, onshore the field on Block 16-1 was less seamless field to meet increased production targets Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa than that with CNV.
Our expectations once the facility upgrades are available.
Final approval was received in that a declaration of commerciality by the March 2008. government of Vietnam could be achieved In February 2008, the Company last year fell short primarily due to a small announced it had entered into a conditional A geochemical survey was conducted discovery on an adjoining block, which sale and purchase agreement for the in August to evaluate the potential of 08 08 OvervIew several leads previously identified by an aeromagnetic and gravity survey conducted by the Company.
The results will be used to help lay out a 2D seismic grid.
Seismic acquisition is scheduled to begin later this year.
In March 2008, the Group entered into a new PSC with the Government of the DRC, Dominion Petroleum Limited and Cohydro, to acquire exclusive rights for hydrocarbon exploration on Block 5, located in the southern Albertine Graben in eastern DRC adjacent to the DRC Uganda border.
The Group holds a 38.25% participating interest in the PSC, which is subject to and becomes effective upon ratification by the President of the DRC.
Angola The Company was notified in August 2007 that the Executive Decree outlining SOCO Cabinda Limiteds 17% participating interest in the Production Sharing Agreement for the Cabinda Onshore building North Block became effective in July.
An airborne gravity and magnetic survey was conducted over the Block in the second quarter and processing completed in the third quarter.
Interpretation of the survey is shareholder underway.
A contract for the acquisition of a 1,200 kilometre 2D seismic survey, based on the results of the gravity and magnetic survey, was awarded to Grant Geophysical, but was suspended and subsequently value cancelled following a security incident in a remote area of the Block.
SOCO International plc 08 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 09 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement continued With near term production from the CNV field in Vietnam and the Bualuang field in Thailand, medium term development and exploration upside in Vietnam and long term exploration potential in West Africa, we are very optimistic about SOCOs future growth prospects.
ed Story President and Chief Executive Thailand and represents an excellent opportunity as we expect to spud the first of multiple The farm-in partner on the Bualuang to realise value from a mature producing wells on Marine XI during the second half field continues to move forward with the non-core asset.
As has been demonstrated in development.
They have installed the Cabinda, there can be substantial risk production jacket and a platform drilling Details of the disposal can be found in The associated with some of the areas in rig has completed the drilling of two Financial Review section of this report.
which we have expanded our exploration wells during February 2008.
To the extent possible, we production, storage and offloading facility OUtlOOk think we have taken these risks into is also scheduled to arrive in the field and The year ahead is shaping up to be consideration and have concluded that it is be ready for production operations in the important to the Company in multiple in the best interests of our shareholders to first half of 2008.
The drilling plans provide ways.
First, the government of Vietnams continue to expand our exploration footprint for simultaneous drilling and production extension of the Block 16-1 exploration where we see considerable opportunity.
The first wells will be batch licence will allow us to put a final stamp on drilled and then completed.
First production the way our assets in Vietnam progress, Despite the recent uncertainty in world is expected to be in the first half of 2008. either with additional opportunity to add to economic markets and its spill over into the existing discoveries or progressing the our sector, we believe that the dynamics COrpOrate already significant field discoveries towards for the industry remain very positive in the Disposal of Yemen interests first oil.
Declaration of commerciality on near to intermediate term.
We look forward In line with the Companys track record TGT is a priority for us and now looks to to leading the Company into its next of realising value at the appropriate stage have advanced beyond the impediments important stage of value creation.
of an assets life-cycle and reinvesting the imposed by having the additional capital to build significant shareholder complications of a unitisation.
In any case, value, the Company entered into a we expect the Vietnam portfolio to be conditional sale and purchase agreement finalised this year.
in February 2008 for the sale of its interest in the East Shabwa Development Area If the sale of the Yemen assets proceeds to Sinochem Petroleum Limited for to completion, it will mark the end of our $465 million, subject to certain financial association in that country, an association Rui fide Sousa Ed Story adjustments.
that has been very value accretive to the Chairman President and Company.
Perhaps this project, as much as Chief Executive The proceeds from the disposal will any, provides the consummate example of strengthen the Companys balance how the Companys business model can be sheet and provide funding for its existing executed to recognise and capture potential exploration and development projects and to create significant shareholder value.
other opportunities that may arise.
The Board believes that the disposal is in the Finally, we begin the first phase of creating best long term interests of the Company value through the drill bit in West Africa, 10 OvervIew strong growth SOCO International plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11
