Chief Executives statement Spectris delivered a strong performance in 2007, with sales, and key performance indicators are not affected by these profits, operating margins and cash flow from continuing changes.
For comparative purposes, the key results for businesses all improving compared with the prior year.
the group based upon the prior segmentation are shown At constant currencies, sales increased by 6.5%, including in Note 3.
The segments are described in detail in the 1% from acquisitions, and operating profit increased by 35%.
The major geographic regions again showed growth during Two acquisitions were made during the second half of 2007.
The strongest growth was seen in Asia, where sales the year.
On 2 July, Particle Measuring Systems acquired the increased by 7% at constant currencies, led by China.
Sales in distribution activities of Quest Technologies in Singapore, giving Europe increased by over 3% at constant currencies.
Sales in it an increased presence in Asia.
On 1 November, Servomex North America increased by 6%, helped by the acquisition of acquired Contrle Analytique, a leading provider of specialist the IPI business acquired in 2006.
Sales in the rest of the world gas analysis products based in Canada.
The acquisition enables increased by 32%, reflecting the growing importance of Servomex to increase its product offering in the global industrial industrialising markets such as Russia, South America and Africa.
gas market and also provides opportunities for the company Operating margins improved to 15.8% 2006: 12.9%, as the to meet the needs of customers in the semiconductor market.
restructuring and other business improvement actions taken in Research and development expenditure increased to prior years continued to deliver results.
45.2 million, which represents 7% of group sales, enabling the businesses to maintain their leading market positions and Strategy continue to meet the productivity challenges their customers face.
Our objective is to deliver shareholder value over the long term by supplying  solutions for our Looking ahead customers.
Our strategy is based on five elements: strengthening Over the longer term we are well positioned, both in terms market positions through innovation: increasing regional of geographic exposure and end user markets.
We have a expansion with the focus on emerging markets: growing existing clearly defined strategy which will deliver both top-line and businesses through acquisition: focusing on operational bottom-line performance.
excellence: building our presence in key strategic growth areas.
In order to give better clarity to our operations, we have re-aligned the activities of our business segments to reflect more closely the applications and end user industries we serve.
Going forward, our businesses will be reported in four segments.
These are: Materials Analysis, Test and Measurement, In-line Instrumentation and Industrial Controls.
Figures for prior John OHiggins years have been restated accordingly.
Figures at group level Chief Executive Over the longer term we are well positioned, both in terms of geographic exposure and end user markets Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 3
