Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Statement 10 Performance made stronger Ian Marchant Chief Executive FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Dividend March 07 March 06 m m The Board is recommending a final Introduction dividend of 39.9p, compared with 32.7p in the Reported profit before tax 1,132.0 896.9 The management of SSE is governed by six previous year, an increase of 22.0%.
This will Movement in derivatives 56.2 70.9 key financial principles: delivery of sustained make a full year dividend of 55p, compared Exceptional items 33.9 127.4 real dividend growth: effective management with 46.5p last year, an increase of 18.3%.
Tax on JVs and Associates 33.8 29.9 of core businesses: rigorous analysis to Interest on convertible debt 3.6 3.6 ensure investments are well-founded and, This increase is also designed to provide a where appropriate, innovative: maintenance Adjusted profit before tax 1,079.3 873.9 significantly higher base for future dividend of a strong balance sheet: deployment of Adjusted current tax charge 282.6 231.5 growth.
From this new, higher base, SSEs a selective and disciplined approach to target will be to deliver at least 4% annual Adjusted profit after tax 796.7 642.4 acquisitions: and use of purchase in the real growth in the dividend paid to Reported profit after tax 830.5 642.3 market of the companys own shares as shareholders in respect of 2007 08, 2008 09 the benchmark against which financial and 2009 10.
Thereafter, SSE expects to Number of shares for basic decisions are taken.
continue to deliver at least sustained real and adjusted EPS million 860.9 859.5 growth in the dividend.
This new policy Adjusted EPS 92.5 74.7 Financial Results for 2006 07 replaces SSEs existing targets, which were Basic EPS 96.5 74.7 These results for the year to 31 March 2007 to deliver at least 4% annual real growth are reported under International Financial in the dividend payable to shareholders in Adjusted Profit before Tax Reporting Standards.
In previous results respect of 2006 07 and 2007 08, with Adjusted profit before tax grew by 23.5%, statements, SSEs focus was on profit before sustained real growth thereafter.
The most tax before exceptional items, net finance substantial growth continues to be achieved income from pension assets IAS 19, the The expected full-year dividend in respect in Generation and Supply.
This reflects impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39, and after the of 2006 07, of 55p, compares with 32.4p for the benefits from the development and removal of taxation on profits from jointly 2001 02, an increase of 69.8% in five years.
diversification of SSEs electricity generation controlled entities and associates.
In these This represents a compound annual growth portfolio, which is over 10,000MW, and results, however, in line with emerging rate of 11.2%, at 55p, it will also be double the sustained increase in the number practice and as stated in the interim results the dividend paid by SSE to shareholders of energy supply-related customers, in November 2006, SSE no longer makes any for the financial year ending 31 March 2000. which now total 7.85 million including adjustment in respect of net finance income 100,000 talk telecoms customers.
Results for The total full-year dividend payment 2005 06 has been restated on this basis.
to shareholders for 2006 07 is covered Adjusted Earnings per Share 1.68 times by SSEs adjusted profit after To monitor financial performance over tax, compared with 1.61 times in the the medium-term, SSE continues to focus previous year.
on adjusted earnings per share, which increased by 23.8%, from 74.7p to 92.5p.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 11 ENERGY SYSTEMS As at 31 March 2007, SSE estimates that All of this means that Southern Electric Ofgems valuation of the assets of its Power Distribution, Scottish Hydro Electric k Operating profit up to 471.1m electricity distribution and transmission Power Distribution, Scottish Hydro Electric compared with 470.6m in previous year businesses the Regulated Asset Value or Transmission and SGN all distributed fewer RAV was over 2.6bn, based on Ofgems units of energy during the year, and this Electricity networks methodology.
impacted on the revenue that they earned.
k Power Systems operating profit of 368.0m compared with 367.9m SSE also has an equity interest of 50% in, If, in any year, regulated energy networks in previous year and provides corporate and management companies revenue is greater over k Investment in electricity networks services to, Scotia Gas Networks SGN, recovery or lower under recovery than up 18.8% to 204.5m which owns Southern Gas Networks and is allowed under the relevant Price Control, k Additional revenue of 13m earned Scotland Gas Networks, companies which the difference is carried forward and under Ofgems Quality of Service own and operate the medium and low the subsequent prices the companies and other incentive schemes pressure gas distribution networks in their may charge are adjusted.
Under this k Agreement on Transmission Price areas of the UK.
They are the subject of arrangement, the under recovery of Control Review 2007-12 incentive-based regulation similar to that revenue from SSEs electricity distribution k Beauly-Denny Public Inquiry which applies in electricity.
The Price Control networks in 2006 07 means they will commenced in February 2007 that had applied to gas distribution networks receive a favourable revenue adjustment from 1 April 2002 expired on 31 March 2007, of 3.9m in 2007 08: similarly, SGN will Gas Networks 10 months in 2005 06 at which point a one-year Price Control receive a favourable revenue adjustment k Share of SGNs adjusted operating was put in place to run until 31 March 2008. of 21m in the 12 months following the profit up from 102.7m to 103.1m A Price Control for a full five-year period tariff re-setting in October 2007. k SGN capital expenditure up 10.3% from 1 April 2008 is now being determined.
to 120.4m and replacement Southern Electric Power Distribution expenditure up 41.4% to 174.8m SGN estimates that the RAV of the networks Southern Electric Power Distributions it owns was around 3.2bn, based on Ofgems operating profit fell by 0.9%, from 226.1m Energy Systems Introduction methodology, as at 31 March 2007. to 224.0m.
During the year, it distributed SSE owns Southern Electric Power 33.9TWh of electricity, compared with Distribution, Scottish Hydro Electric Power Energy Systems Overview 34.9TWh in the previous year, despite Distribution and Scottish Hydro Electric Operating profit in Energy Systems, a growth in the number of customers Transmission.
These companies are the including gas distribution, increased slightly, to whom electricity is distributed.
This subject of incentive-based regulation by from 470.6m to 471.1m, contributing reduction in the number of units distributed the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets 38.3% of SSEs total operating profit.
was, however, partially offset by changes Ofgem, which sets for periods of five years in their price.
the prices they can charge for the use of The amount of electricity transmitted and their electricity networks, their capital distributed through SSEs networks and the Ensuring the reliability of the electricity expenditure and their allowed operating amount of gas distributed through SGNs networks it owns and operates is one of expenditure, within a framework known as networks is determined by the weather, SSEs main priorities and the key measures the Price Control.
In broad terms, Ofgem by customers demand for energy and by of reliability are customer minutes lost and seeks to strike the right balance between the availability of the networks themselves.
The average number attracting investment in electricity and Variations in the volume of energy distributed of minutes that customers in the Southern gas networks, encouraging companies to have an impact on the income earned by Electric Power Distribution area were operate them as efficiently as possible and SSEs energy systems businesses.
without supply was 72, one more than in ensuring that prices ultimately borne by the previous year: and the number of supply customers are no higher than they need to 2006 07 was marked by higher than interruptions per 100 customers was 76, be.
The current Distribution Price Control normal temperatures throughout the year compared with 78 in the previous year.
A new five-year in all parts of the country.
There was also Transmission Price Control was agreed a reduction in customers use of both Performance in respect of both minutes during 2006 07 and came into effect on electricity and gas, even after allowing lost and interruptions was ahead of the 1 April 2007. for weather-related variations in demand.
targets set by Ofgem under its Quality of This may reflect the impact of the higher Service Incentive Scheme QSIS, which energy supply prices which prevailed during gives financial benefits to distribution the year, and a growing awareness of the network operators that deliver good importance of energy efficiency.
We deliver electricity to SSE owns one electricity We distributed SSE distributed 42.4TWh transmission network and two of electricity to customers electricity distribution networks, connected to its electricity comprising 106,000 substations networks in 2006 07.
The and 128,000km of overhead average number of minutes that lines and underground cables these customers were without across one third of the UK electricity during the year was 3.5 42.4 landmass.
It delivers electricity 77 in the north of Scotland and to 3.5 million customers in the 72 in central southern England.
million homes, offices and TWh of electricity north of Scotland and in central This means that the networks businesses southern England.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Statement continued 12 Safety We believe all accidents are preventable, so we aim to do everything safely and responsibly, or not at all.
This helped us to achieve yet another reduction in the number of lost-time and reportable injuries during 2006 07, to 11 an all-time low for SSE.
But thats still not low enough.
We hate anyone getting hurt.
So our ultimate goal is injury-free working.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 13 In the north of Scotland, 2007 08 will be This, together with income earned in Performance in respect of both minutes marked by the replacement of no fewer 2006 07 under other incentive arrangements lost and interruptions was, however, than four subsea cables, reinforcing the is expected to lead to SSE receiving ahead of Ofgems QSIS targets.
This, electricity supply to islands off the north additional revenue totalling 9m during together with income earned in 2006 07 and west coasts.
the next two financial years.
under other incentive arrangements, is expected to lead to SSE receiving additional With two years of the five-year Distribution In January 2007, the Southern Electric revenue of just under 4m during the next Price Control period completed, SSE Power Distribution area was affected by a two financial years.
forecasts that the Regulated Asset Value storm which the Meteorological Office said RAV of its distribution and transmission was the most severe in its scale and impact Electricity Network Investment businesses is over 2.6bn.
This led to additional costs of The key responsibility of SSEs electricity to grow by around 500m over the 2005-10 around 2m being incurred.
It resulted in networks businesses is to maintain safe Distribution Price Control period, based almost 200,000 customers having their and reliable supplies of electricity and to on Ofgems methodology, to around 3bn.
Power was restore supplies as quickly as possible in This excludes any major transmission restored to around 180,000 customers the event of interruptions.
In line with this, SSE expects within a day and to almost all of the affected Price Control Review for 2005-10 resulted to invest around 250m in its electricity customers within 36 hours.
Over 1,000 in substantially increased allowances for networks in 2007 08. people in SSE, from across the country, were capital expenditure to maintain and improve involved in dealing with the consequences of the networks performance.
This will enable Future Transmission Developments the storm, from engineers out in the field SSE to increase its revenue from its One of SSEs priorities for 2006 07 was to customer service advisers who spoke to networks, and delivery of this enhanced to secure a satisfactory outcome from over 50,000 affected customers who called investment programme was one of SSEs the Transmission Price Control Review for in.
It was an exercise in which first class priorities for 2006 07.
It is now well under 2007-12, and in December 2006 it decided, teamwork was key.
Following the event, way, with capital expenditure of 204.5m SSE undertook a comprehensive review during the year, which was 18.8% higher on balance, to accept Ofgems final proposals.
to ensure that it is as well prepared as than in 2005 06.
In the course of the year, While the allowed cost of capital was, and possible for storms in the future.
SSE added just over 1,000km to the length remains, disappointing, SSE concluded, of its networks, taking the total, including ultimately, that there was within Ofgems Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution transmission, to over 128,000km.
detailed proposals for areas such as capital and Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission and operational expenditure sufficient scope Operating profit for Scottish Hydro Electric An example of the type of project in which and incentive to secure an acceptable level Power Distribution and Scottish Hydro investment is being made is the installation of revenue from its transmission business.
Electric Transmission increased by 1.6%, of a 15km overhead BLX line and 2.5km from 141.8m to 144.0m.
In the Scottish underground cable, which will improve As the licensed transmission company for Hydro Electric area, 8.5TWh of electricity the security of supply to customers at the north of Scotland, SSE is required to were distributed during the year, compared Marchington on the Dorset Wiltshire border.
ensure there is sufficient network capacity The cable is being laid using directional drill with 8.9TWh distributed in the previous for those seeking to generate electricity techniques which avoid the need for large year.
This reduction in the number of from renewable sources.
The project to open trenches under sensitive woodland to units distributed was, however, offset replace the electricity transmission line comply with requests from English Nature by changes in their price.
connecting Beauly in the Highlands with and the National Trust.
Denny in the Central Belt of Scotland is The average number of minutes that in line with that responsibility.
It is likely Rising demand for electricity in north customers were without supply was 77, that the construction of its part of the Hampshire and south Berkshire has created compared with 65 in the previous year replacement line will require SSE to invest the need for a reinforcement of the local which was the best performance in the over 250m, and making progress with electricity network.
In line with this, SSE has area since records began and 82 in 2004 05. this project was another of SSEs priorities begun preliminary work on the installation This followed an increase of almost 25% during 2006 07.
A Public Inquiry into the of two 10km underground 132kV cables in the number of weather-related faults project began in February 2007, and was that will carry power from National Grids experienced on the 33kV network during still on schedule at the end of May.
It is substation at Bramley to the SSE substation January and February of 2007.
The number expected that the report of the Inquiry in Basingstoke.
of supply interruptions per 100 customers will be submitted to Scottish Ministers was 79, one more than in the previous year.
We invested over SSE invested 204.5m in its We expect to add SSE forecasts that the electricity networks during Regulated Asset Value RAV of 2006 07 to maintain and improve its distribution and transmission their performance, an increase businesses will grow by around of 18.8% on 2005 06.
During 500m over the 2005-10 2007 08 it expects to invest Distribution Price Control around 250m in the networks.
period, based on Ofgems 204 500 methodology.
This excludes any major transmission investment.
million pounds in our electricity million pounds to our networks electricity networks Regulated Asset Value Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Statement continued 14 As part of SGNs drive to deliver excellent In December 2006, SSE published a SSEs share of SGNs adjusted operating customer service through this depot consultation document on the possible profit was 103.1m during 2006 07, structure, customer satisfaction indices development of a new high voltage compared with 102.7m for the 10 months have been introduced across the range of transmission line capable of accommodating from 1 June 2005.
This result reflects the activities.
Almost 6,000 customers were power from possible renewable energy major reduction in gas transportation asked to rate their experience of SGN developments on the Western Isles and volumes experienced during the year.
SGN undertaking work at their home across a connecting this to the existing mainland would have earned additional revenue if range of metrics, and this culminated in transmission network at Beauly.
The temperatures had been normal, rather than an overall score of 4.11 out of 5 5 being consultation document set out a preferred above average, and transportation volumes very satisfied.
During 2006 07, this focus option for the new connection which would had also been normal, rather than lower on customer service helped SGN deliver a involve the construction of a subsea High than average.
This would have added 21.0m reduction of 56%, to 75, in the number of Voltage Direct Current HVDC cable circuit to SSEs share of SGNs adjusted operating complaints about it sent to energywatch and an underground HVDC cable.
Nevertheless, performance was for resolution.
development on this basis would require supported by an ongoing focus on underlying investment by SSE broadly estimated at operating costs and by improving results Future performance will be supported by the around 375m.
from SGN in its non-regulated activities.
introduction of new front office management systems, the total number of which has been Electricity Distribution and Transmission Scotia Gas Networks Operational reduced from over 50 to 11.
The final stage Priorities in 2007 08 During 2006 07, the gas transportation of the implementation was completed in During 2007 08, SSEs first objective in volume for SGNs network in Scotland was April and the systems are bedding in well.
electricity distribution and transmission 57,096GWh and for its Southern network will be to maintain safe and reliable supplies the volume was 105,240GWh.
This compares During 2006 07 the number of lost of power and to restore supplies as quickly with 61,637GWh and 123,632GWh respectively time injuries in SGN fell to 0.21 per as possible in the event of interruptions, so in the previous year.
performance in terms of customer minutes lost and customer interruptions will continue SGNs objective is to reach and remain at Scotia Gas Networks Investment to be critical.
This will be supported by the frontier for safety, customer service During the year, SGN invested 120.4m in delivery of continuous improvement and efficiency in gas distribution.
During the capital expenditure projects, compared with initiatives, following a fundamental review year, it made significant progress towards 109.2m in the 10 months from June 2005.
It of internal processes and customer-facing the achievement of this goal.
In September also invested 174.8m in mains and services operations that is now under way.
Other 2006, following negotiations, the trade replacement expenditure works, compared key priorities will be the efficient delivery unions ballot produced a substantial vote with 123.6m in the 10 months from June of the next phase of the major programme in favour of SGNs pay and productivity offer 2005, under the 30:30 mains replacement of investment in the networks, targeted at for the three years until 2009, which will programme.
This is the Great Britain-wide upgrading them so as to benefit the greatest allow the introduction of much more flexible working patterns.
These will be introduced replacement of all iron gas mains within number of customers and the successful while continuing to attach the highest 30 metres of domestic properties in a 30-year completion of the Public Inquiry into the priority to safety.
timeframe to improve the future reliability Beauly-Denny transmission line proposal.
and safety of the network.
Following this Implementation of the new structure for investment, SGN estimates that the RAV Scotia Gas Networks Financial the business is virtually complete.
The of the networks it owns was around 3.2bn In June 2005, Scotia Gas Networks plc previous functionally-based arrangement as at 31 March 2007 the same as the SGN, in which SSE holds 50% of the equity, has been replaced with a geographicallytotal enterprise value paid when they were acquired the Scotland and the Southern gas based organisation operating out of 24 acquired in June 2005. distribution networks from National Grid.
depots, thereby enabling SGN to secure The networks comprise around 74,000km significant efficiencies.
This reorganisation In 2007 08, SGN expects to invest around of gas mains, delivering gas to around is intended to improve SGNs effectiveness 200m in capital expenditure projects and 5.7m industrial, commercial and domestic in its customer-facing activities such as around 190m in replacement expenditure customers.
SSEs investment was 505m, emergency response, repairs, metering works.
With such high levels of investment including shareholder subordinated debt, work and streetworks.
expected in future years, the RAV of SGN in return for which it receives 50% of the is on course to increase significantly.
distributable earnings from the networks.
SSE is also providing corporate and management services for SGN.
We distribute gas to SSE owns 50% of Scotia Gas We invested SGN invested 295.2m in its Networks SGN, the company gas networks during 2006 07. which owns Scotland Gas This comprised: 120.4m in Networks and Southern Gas capital expenditure projects: and Networks.
It also provides 174.8m in mains and services corporate and management replacement expenditure works services to SGN.
The two under the 30:30 programme, 5.7 295 networks comprise around which is the Great Britain-wide 74,000km of gas mains, replacement of all iron gas million customers via SGN million pounds in our gas delivering gas to 5.7 million mains within 30 metres of networks, via SGN customers.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 15 A SMART IDEA Service We give our customers service we are proud of and make commitments that we deliver.
Thats why we support ways of helping them to save energy and money.
During 2006 07, we won support from the government to run trials of smart meters.
These give people a lot more information about the energy they are using and how to use it better.
A smart move for all concerned.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Statement continued 16 Future Scotia Gas Network developments and to support also the continued ink First 20,000 customers won by new SGN decided to accept Ofgems final sourcing of services currently provided domestic gas boiler installation, proposals for the gas distribution one-year by National Grid, which will yield further maintenance and repair business price control for 2007-08.
As in electricity cost savings.
It will also assist SGN in k New energy programme rewarding transmission, the allowed cost of capital the delivery of its substantial capital and customers for energy efficiency set in gas distribution was disappointing and replacement expenditure programmes.
for launch should not be seen as a precedent for the More specifically, SSE will help SGN in its forthcoming five-year review for 2008-13. work with Ofgem on the Gas Distribution Generation and Supply Introduction Nevertheless, SGNs networks secured the Price Control review for 2008-13 and in SSE owns just over 10,000 megawatts MW highest increases in revenue amongst the its drive to achieve a further improvement of electricity generation capacity, including eight gas distribution networks.
The policy in its safety performance.
its share of joint ventures.
This comprises frameworks for shrinkage gas, pensions almost 4,400MW of gas-fired capacity, deficit and capital and replacement GENERATION AND SUPPLY 4,000MW of coal-fired capacity with biomass expenditure were all satisfactorily dealt co-firing capability, over 1,500MW of hydro with in the context of what was a one-year k Operating profit up 44.5% to 642.6m and wind capacity and 150MW of oil-fired review period.
capacity, giving SSE diversity in fuels and, Generation as a result, greater optionality in the overall On 29 May 2007, Ofgem published its initial k Gas-fired power station availability management of its power stations.
As at proposals for the 2008-13 price control.
up from 87% to 95%: coal station 31 March 2007, SSE supplied energy to over These proposals are comprehensive and availability unchanged at 92% 7.75 million homes, offices and businesses detailed and require extensive scrutiny k Acquisition of 50% stake in Marchwood within the UKs competitive electricity and and ongoing dialogue with Ofgem.
SGNs Power Ltd, a new 840MW gas-fired gas supply market.
objective is to ensure that Ofgems final power station under construction proposals, which are expected to be k Start of work on ash separation plant A series of market reforms, culminating published in November 2007, feature an at Fiddlers Ferry in the introduction of British Electricity acceptable cost of capital, opportunities k Fourth highest hydro output on record Trading and Transmission Arrangements to earn additional revenue and the correct k Hadyard Hill became first UK wind farm BETTA in 2005, means that wholesale gas incentives for dealing with operational, to generate over 100MW of electricity and wholesale electricity are transacted capital and replacement expenditure.
k Planning permission secured for a like any other commodities.
SSE purchases further 68MW of new wind farm capacity gas and, where appropriate, some electricity In addition to its core gas distribution k Partnership Agreement signed with via bilateral contracts and through the activities, SGN has established Connections, Viking Energy for 600MW wind farm wholesale market the latter complementing Contracting and Commercial Services on Shetland the electricity produced from its own businesses.
Amongst other things, these k Target adopted to reduce carbon intensity generation portfolio.
Within its integrated new businesses carry out work previously of power generated by 20% by 2016 business model, SSEs power stations and done by contractors and they will provide fuel supply contracts are used to support the scope for SGN to enhance revenue from Supply performance in electricity supply, mainly non-regulated activities in future years.
k Net gain of over one million energy through exploiting flexibility and optionality.
As a result of this, SGN now employs supply customers, to 7.75m, following Generation and Supply is, therefore, over 3,500 people although, because policy of responsible pricing assessed as a single value chain and this of efficiencies achieved, the total number k Implementation of lower energy approach means, amongst other things, of people working on SGN activities, prices from 1 March 2007: lowest that more sustained value can be created including contractors, has fallen.
domestic prices for dual fuel from SSEs balanced portfolio of assets, k Further reduction, of 47%, in contracts and customers than would be Scotia Gas Networks Priorities in 2007 08 complaints reported by energywatch the case on a stand-alone basis.
SSEs priority in gas distribution will k Ranked first in uSwitch.
com customer continue to be to provide SGN with the satisfaction survey and top performer corporate and management services to in JD Power study support its ongoing reform of procedures, k 100,000 talk telecoms customers processes and practices which are designed achieved for first time to secure cost savings and efficiencies, Did you know?
We produce electricity from SSE owns just over 10GW of We generated During 2006 07, the amount of gas-fired, coaland biomasselectricity generated at SSEs fired, oil-fired, hydro, pumped power stations wholly-owned storage and wind generation and owned by joint ventures capacity in England and was 46.6TWh.
Its main power to power around 13 million stations are at Ferrybridge, homes for one year.
10 46.6 Fiddlers Ferry, Keadby, Medway and Peterhead.
GW 10,000MW of generation TWh of electricity SSE is also the UKs leading capacity generator of electricity from renewable sources.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 17 ensuring it is available to generate electricity Generation and Supply Overview This positive impact from Scottish-based as required by its customer, SSE.
SSE will Operating profit in Generation and Supply generation contributed around 25m to supply both the gas for conversion into rose by 44.5%, from 444.8m to 642.6m, operating profit during 2006 07. electricity, and the net carbon emissions contributing 52.2% of SSEs total operating allowances, and will sell the resulting profit during the year.
Total revenue for Operating profit reflects a charge of 18.9m output into the UK electricity market.
In Generation and Supply was 10.98bn which in respect of the write down of Combined this respect, the arrangements are similar accounted for 88% of SSEs total revenue Heat and Power facilities and the expensing to those which apply to Seabank Power in 2006 07, of which 5.06bn was in relation of costs associated with the deep water Limited, in which SSE also has a 50% stake, to sales of electricity and gas to industrial, offshore wind research, development and and which operates a 1,140MW CCGT power commercial and domestic customers.
demonstration project in the Moray Firth.
The underlying financial performance of Generation and Supply has been reported Gas-fired Generation Operations The plant is being built under a fixed price excluding the impact of IAS 39 revaluations Good performance in BETTA is dependent turnkey contract by Siemens plc, using because SSE does not believe this represents on plant reliability.
During 2006 07, SSEs gas turbines similar to those used at underlying business performance.
principal wholly-owned gas-fired power Seabank and at Peterhead.
With a net stations Fife, Keadby, Medway and thermal efficiency in excess of 58%, it will During 2006 07, SSE generated 46.6TWh Peterhead achieved an average of 95% be one of the most efficient in the UK and of electricity, including power stations it of their maximum availability to generate in a typical year will meet the electricity wholly owns and in which it has a share.
electricity, excluding planned outages, requirements of around one million homes.
It also purchased 10.5TWh of electricity via a significant improvement on the 87% The favourable location of the plant, on the long-term contracts with other generators, availability in the previous year.
This followed coast of central southern England, means including British Energy.
In the year, an intensive programme of engagement it will actually receive payments under it supplied 26.3TWh of electricity to its with the equipment suppliers to resolve the current arrangements for charging domestic and small business customers, technology and performance issues.
electricity generators for use of the and 24.6TWh was supplied under contract electricity networks.
to industrial and commercial customers.
Gas-fired Generation Investment The net balance was sold in the wholesale During 2007 08, SSE expects to invest over The expected capital cost for Marchwood electricity market.
20m at its Medway, Keadby and Peterhead Power Ltd is around 400m.
It is being Power Stations to improve their availability financed on a debt equity ratio of 80:20.
The continuing growth achieved by SSEs and reliability and to increase the overall In line with the 50:50 joint venture, SSEs integrated Generation and Supply business performance capability of the plant.
Within equity investment will be, therefore, around is the outcome of the companys investment this, the most significant investment will 40m and it is also providing 50% of the in and acquisition of a diverse range of be in gas turbine efficiency and flexibility project debt requirements other than electricity generating assets and a growth of improvements at Peterhead, which are the VAT and Working Capital facilities 74% in the number of energy supply-related scheduled to begin in the autumn of this year.
On this basis, SSE has so customers over the past five years.
More In December 2006, SSE and ESBI Irelands far incurred 32.5m in respect of the specifically, it also reflects the fact that Electricity Supply Board International Marchwood development.
SSEs gas-fired power stations delivered completed all of the financial and legal a greater level of availability to generate agreements in respect of their 50:50 joint During August 2006, Barking Power Ltd, electricity during 2006 07, compared with venture, Marchwood Power Ltd.
This allowed in which SSE has a 30.4% stake, submitted a the previous year, which was a key priority.
work on the construction of the ventures Section 36 application for consent to develop There was also much more output of wind new 840MW combined cycle gas turbine a new 400MW CCGT.
If consented, this would energy during the year which contributed CCGT power plant in Southampton to effectively add around 120MW to the portfolio around 20m to operating profit.
The plant is expected to of generation assets owned by SSE.
output was the fourth highest on record be constructed and in commercial operation and the additional output contributed in time for the winter of 2009 10.
On During 2006 07 SSE and its partner BP around 25m to operating profit, completion, it will take SSEs ownership delayed a decision on whether to invest in compared with an average year.
interest in gas-fired power stations to the development of a 475MW carbon capture almost 4,800MW and in electricity generation plant at SSEs power station at Peterhead.
Since the BETTA arrangements were capacity as a whole to almost 10,500MW.
The companies had been working for almost introduced in April 2005, SSE has benefited two years on what would have been the from its ability to deploy its flexible power The plant will be operated by Marchwood worlds first industrial-scale project to stations in Scotland to meet demand from Power Ltd, which will be responsible for generate fide-carbonised electricity from the electricity market in England and Wales.
We achieved SSEs main wholly-owned We are developing a new SSE and ESB International gas-fired power stations have entered into a 50:50 joint Fife, Keadby, Medway and venture to build a new combined Peterhead achieved 95% of cycle gas turbine power station their maximum availability to in Southampton.
At over 58%, generate electricity, excluding it will have one of the highest planned outages, a significant net thermal efficiencies in the 95 840 improvement on the 87% UK and in a typical year will availability in the previous year.
meet the electricity needs of per cent availability at our MW gas-fired power station around one million homes.
gas-fired power stations Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Statement continued 18 hydrogen, and they had completed the Nevertheless, the new facilities mean that technology at Ferrybridge, comprising a front-end engineering and design study.
SSE is now the UKs leading user of biomass 500MW Super-critical Boiler and Steam The project was, however, always dependent co-firing.
It is now considering the impact Turbine, with a thermal efficiency of around on the government putting in place a policy of the proposed new ROC arrangements 45%, and the subsequent deployment of framework which encourages the capture for biomass, set out in the governments post-combustion carbon capture equipment.
of carbon from fossil fuel-based electricity consultation document Reform of the The front-end engineering and design study generation, and its long-term storage.
Renewables Obligation, but these are not is almost completed and SSE expects to expected to come into effect until April 2009. make a decision before the end of 2007 on In May 2007, the Energy White Paper whether to proceed with the investment.
set out a timetable for a competition to Coal and Biomass Generation Investment determine which carbon capture and SSE has opted in to the Large Combustion It was originally expected that installation storage project in the UK would be Plant Directive all of the capacity at of the Super-critical Boiler and related supported by the government.
This timetable Fiddlers Ferry and half of the capacity plant to meet all established environmental was not compatible with the requirements of at Ferrybridge and as a result is installing standards would require investment by SSE the participants in the project at Peterhead Flue Gas Desulphurisation FGD equipment of around 250m.
Over the past year, costs and BP announced it would take the project in an investment expected to total around across the power equipment sector have no further.
This will extend the stations risen and the required level of investment interest in developments in carbon capture contribution to the security of the UKs may be significantly higher, which will and storage technologies and has potential energy supplies and means that SSE clearly influence SSEs final decision.
opportunities at its gas-fired and coal-fired will continue to have the countrys most power stations.
In February 2007, SSE and RockTron Limited concluded an agreement leading to the Coal and Biomass Generation Operations Making good progress with the investment construction at Fiddlers Ferry of the first The Ferrybridge and Fiddlers Ferry power was one of SSEs priorities during 2006 07, plant in the UK to separate ash arising stations, each with a capacity of almost and the civil works at both sites are now from electricity generation into constituent 2,000MW, achieved 92% of their maximum well under way, with the first outage mineral parts for sale as cement substitute availability to generate electricity, excluding connected to the project commencing at products and industrial minerals.
planned outages, during 2006 07, the same Fiddlers Ferry in March 2007.
This was as in the previous year.
to allow the removal of asbestos from the Under the agreement, SSE has acquired one exhaust ducting before the ducting itself preference share in RockTron and is providing The stations also co-fire fuels from was removed and replaced to accommodate it with a loan of up to 22m to facilitate the renewable sources biomass in order to the FGD plant.
The installation of FGD construction of the plant.
All of the necessary displace fossil fuels, thus reducing the is expected to be complete in time for consents are in place, and work on the impact of carbon emissions resulting from the power stations to begin generating development is now under way, with the their operation.
The resulting electricity electricity through a fide-sulphurised plant on course to become fully operational output qualifies for Renewable Obligation process during 2008. in the summer of 2008.
During the year, their To complement the investment in FGD, SSE output qualifying for ROCs was 741GWh, Over a period of up to 25 years the plant will is investing 17m in installing re-designed compared with 795GWh in the previous year.
remove and process all fresh ash produced high-pressure turbines and static blades at The total for 2006 07 was less than might and all which is currently stored in lagoons all four units at Fiddlers Ferry and at two have been expected following the recent at the site, up to a total of around 800,000 units at Ferrybridge.
This will increase their development of the new co-firing facilities tonnes per annum.
It will take this as its raw thermal efficiency by around 1.4%, thereby at the sites.
It reflects the introduction material and process it into its constituent reducing the amount of coal consumed and of the regulatory change which limits to parts such as fine and coarse ash fractions, the amount of CO 10% the amount that companies can use 2 emitted per MWh of magnetic fraction, carbon rich fraction and co-fired fuels to meet their Renewables electricity generated.
The turbines and the cenospheres.
Output was also affected by static blades have been installed at the first the fact that the new facilities to co-fire of the units at Fiddlers Ferry, and further These constituent parts then become fuels from renewable sources underwent installations will take place at both stations marketable products and will be sold into commissioning during the period, during 2007. their respective markets, with the largest which included the need to ensure volume being used as cement substitutes.
the quality of fuel for the station was SSEs partnership with Doosan Babcock Without processing, ash disposal would of the required standard.
Energy, Siemens and UK Coal is intended begin to attract landfill duty and associated to lead to the installation of cleaner coal environmental liabilities.
We are investing around SSE is installing flue gas We are enabling SSE and RockTron Ltd have desulphurisation equipment at concluded an agreement leading all of the capacity at Fiddlers to the construction at Fiddlers Ferry power station and half Ferry power station of the first of the capacity at Ferrybridge.
plant in the UK to separate This will extend the stations ash arising from electricity contribution to the security of generation into constituent 225 800 the UKs energy supplies and mineral parts for sale as will prevent emissions from cement substitute products million pounds in flue gas thousand tonnes of ash per them which cause acid rain.
desulphurisation equipment annum to be recycled at Fiddlers Ferry Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 19 A LEADING ROC STAR Efficiency We keep things simple, do the work that adds value and avoid wasting money, materials, energy or time.
Thats why were building, near Loch Ness, our first large-scale hydro electric power station for 50 years.
With 16 kilometres of tunnels collecting rainfall and channelling it to the under ground power station, it will be the most efficient plant of its kind in the UK, producing plenty of green power to earn ROCs.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Statement continued 20 by an application, in April 2007, for consent The agreement between SSE and qualifies for ROCs.
The refurbishment of all to build another new run-of-river hydro RockTron governs all of the commercial and of SSEs sub-20MW capacity was completed electric scheme of 3.5MW in Wester Ross.
operational matters in respect of the new during 2005 and, in total, it has 406MW of plant, including a lease to allow construction capacity in its sub-20MW stations including SSE believes there may be potential and operation of the plant at the power the new plant commissioned in the last few to develop up to three larger hydro electric station and the supply to the plant on a years at Culleig, Kingairloch and Fasnakyle.
schemes in the Highlands, which could must-take basis of ash from the power Of the total hydro output in 2006 07, be capable of producing a total of up station.
RockTron will be responsible for 1,791GWh qualified for ROCs.
to 200GWh of electricity a year, plus a the operation of the new plant and for number of pumped storage schemes.
the marketing and sale of the constituent The Tangy, Spurness, Artfield Fell and Their development would, however, require mineral parts arising from the processing.
Hadyard Hill wind farms also contributed a planning and policy framework more 384GWh of ROC-qualifying output in 2006 07, attuned to the critical need to maximise EU Emissions Trading Scheme compared with the 108GWh of output production of energy from renewable In March 2007, the UK government produced by SSEs wind farms in the sources and reform of the current regime published its Approved National Allocation previous year.
This increase reflects the for charging generators for the use of the Plan for Phase II of the EU Emissions fact that Hadyard Hill was commissioned electricity networks.
Across at the start of the financial year and became its electricity generation portfolio taking the first wind farm in the UK to generate Wind Generation Investment account of contractual shares, SSE will over 100MW of electricity.
SSEs four operational wind farms have receive an allocation of 16.3 million tonnes a total installed capacity of 162MW.
This can be compared with its Assuming average run off of water into will increase to 236MW with completion of Phase I allocation of 19.6 million tonnes SSEs reservoirs during the rest of this construction of the wind farms at Tangy 2 per annum.
SSEs Phase II allocation as financial year, and typical wind conditions, 6MW, Drumderg 32MW and Toddleburn a percentage of its Phase I allocation is the ROC-qualifying output from hydro and 36MW.
Drumderg finally received consent around 83%, compared with around 80% wind generation is expected to be almost in September 2006 and Toddleburn received across the electricity sector as a whole.
Hydro and Wind Generation Operations Hydro Generation Investment At the start of 2006 07, SSE said it hoped The Energy White Paper, published in May The construction of what will be SSEs that its applications in respect of seven wind 2007, stated that renewable energy is an second largest conventional hydro-electric farms in Scotland would be determined and integral part of the governments strategy station at Glendoe, near Loch Ness is approved during the financial year.
Of these for reducing carbon emissions.
It also now well under way.
At the end of March, seven, two have been approved and one was stated that renewables can also make over 500 people were working on the the subject of a Public Inquiry which has a contribution to security of supply, development.
By that time, cavern excavation now been completed and of which the result by diversifying the electricity mix and had been completed to power station floor is awaited.
Two have been referred to Public reducing the need for energy imports.
level, the headrace tunnel had advanced to 1,250 metres and the aqueduct tunnel Inquiries which will start later this year to 520 metres.
and two have yet to be determined by the SSE owns and operates over 1,500MW relevant planning authority.
Another wind of renewable energy generating capacity, With an installed capacity of around 100MW, farm, Strathy North, was submitted for including pumped storage.
Total output Glendoe will produce around 180GWh of planning consent during the year.
Its from its hydro electric stations during the electricity qualifying for ROCs in an average proposed installed capacity is 70MW.
year was the fourth highest on record at year.
When synchronised, it will be able 3,767GWh.
This compares with the 10-year to start generating 100MW of electricity in Despite these issues, SSE is still aiming average of 3,177GWh and with output of 30 seconds.
The development of Glendoe to have around 1,000MW of ROC-qualifying 3,054GWh during 2005 06.
As at 31 March is requiring investment of around 140m.
wind and hydro generating capacity by 2007, the amount of water held in SSEs The project is a key priority and remains the end of the decade.
It already has in reservoirs which could be used to generate on course for electricity to be generated place, or has secured consent to develop, electricity was 75% of the maximum, from the winter of 2008 09.
742MW of capacity 568MW in operation compared with 61% on the same date and 174MW in development or construction.
last year, enough to generate 670GWh In March 2007, SSE applied for consent to of electricity.
build a new 2.5MW hydro electric station In January 2007, SSE signed a partnership near Crianlarich: the proposal is for a agreement with Viking Energy Ltd, The output of refurbished hydro electric run-of-river scheme.
This was followed the company established to represent stations with capacity of up to 20MW Did you know?
We are investing around SSE is developing what will be We are developing a SSE has signed a partnership its second largest conventional with Viking Energy Ltd, the hydro electric scheme at company established to Glendoe, near Loch Ness.
represent Shetland Islands When synchronised, it will Councils interests in wind farm be able to start generating development, intended to lead to 100MW of electricity in the development on Shetlands 140 600 30 seconds and will help Central Mainland of a 600MW to meet peaks in demand wind farm.
Viking Energys million pounds in a new largeMW community-backed for power.
involvement would make it the scale hydro electric scheme wind farm worlds largest communitybacked wind farm.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 21 SSEs investment in Edinburgh-based Shetland Islands Councils interests in wind deployment is a key priority for the UK Renewable Devices Swift Turbines Ltd farm development, which is intended to lead government and is part of SSEs strategy has not been successful to date.
The Swift to the development on Shetlands central to remain the UKs leading generator of rooftop-mountable wind energy system will mainland of a wind farm with around 600MW electricity from renewable sources.
Against require further work before its long-term of capacity.
SSE and Viking Energy each have this background, SSE agreed in October feasibility can be confirmed beyond doubt.
Under the 2006 to become a partner in the new Energy agreement, the new partnership will, later Technologies Institute, providing it with up SSEs subsidiary Renewable Technology this year, submit to the Scottish Executive to 2.5m a year for five years.
The detailed Ventures Ltd has continued with the a planning application for the wind farm arrangements for the ETI are still being development of an underwater tidal turbine which, if consented, could reduce the UKs finalised and if, in practice, SSEs demonstrator.
It is keen to continue to annual carbon emissions by an estimated participation in the ETI is not the best invest in marine energy and is looking for two million tonnes, or more.
Its development way forward, SSE will engage directly investment opportunities in this area to is subject to, amongst other things, with universities and other research establish a position as the UKs leading planning consent being secured and to the establishments to make appropriate developer of tidal-based electricity construction of a sub-sea cable between investments in new technologies.
Shetland and the mainland of Scotland.
SSE is a major contributor to a 6m fund Energy White Paper Innovation to support renewable energy developments In the Energy White Paper, published in The placing of a 5MW wind turbine, one of in Scotland.
The Sigma Sustainable Energies May 2007, the UK government said that the largest installed anywhere in the world, Fund is being financed by a range of we need a diverse electricity generation in 45 metres of water 25 kilometres off partners including the Scottish Executive mix.
It defined the long-term energy the coast in the Moray Firth, was a key to stimulate growth in renewable energy.
challenges facing the UK to encourage milestone in a research, development and The Fund considers energy-related projects lower carbon and more secure supplies demonstrator project to test the technical in a wide range of fields including wind, of energy.
SSE agrees that diversity in the and economic feasibility of deep water solar, hydro electric, biomass including electricity generation mix is vitally important wind farms.
The project has been funded biofuels, ocean, hydrogen and geo-thermal.
and also agrees that the challenges which by Talisman Energy UK Ltd and SSE, as Its early investments include Ocean Power have been defined by the government well as the European Union, the Scottish Delivery Ltd, which is developing the are the Executive and the Department of Trade and Pelamis marine energy device, and Xipower ones that need to be addressed Industry.
Electricity was first generated by Ltd, which has developed patented battery with practical, consistent and long-term the turbine in May 2007 and is being used power management and monitoring policy framework.
to power the Beatrice oil platform, which, technologies.
in turn, will provide a base from which to The publication of the White Paper followed carry out turbine maintenance and Micro generation technologies have the the European Union agreement to adopt performance monitoring.
potential to become a key way of reducing a binding target on the use of renewable the demand for energy from the national energy, the Approved National Allocation electricity and gas grids by giving the A second turbine was due to be installed, Plan for Phase II of the EU Emissions buildings connected to them the means but this did not take place before the onset Trading Scheme and the draft Climate to produce at least some of the energy of the autumn and winter weather, and Change Bill.
All of these developments that their occupants need.
During 2006 07, was postponed until the summer of 2007. point in a single direction: there will have SSE invested 2.0m to increase its stake In addition, the project has been subject to to be a reduction in the amount of carbon in Solarcentury, the leading independent significant cost over-runs, and total costs dioxide which is produced per unit of solar photovoltaics company in the UK, have now exceeded 30m, of which SSEs electricity generated.
to 13.3% of the issued share capital.
All of this demonstrates The development of low carbon buildings the challenges associated with the Against this background, SSE has set itself is an example of where new business development of leading-edge technology a target to reduce by 20% over 10 years the opportunities should arise for SSE, with and this project has had difficulties.
amount of carbon dioxide per kilowatt hour Southern Electric Contracting SEC now Accordingly, SSE has recognised a of electricity produced at power stations in the preferred installer for Solarcentury.
charge of 5m in 2006 07 in respect which it has an ownership or contractual The two companies have been appointed of this expenditure.
The base year for SSEs target is by the Department of Trade and Industry 2005 06, when its emissions of carbon to supply and install solar panels on The development of secure, reliable dioxide were 620g kWh, and it is aiming to Britains public buildings as part of its and cost-effective low carbon energy achieve the 20% reduction, to 496g kWh or 50m Low Carbon Buildings Programme.
technologies towards commercial less, by 2015 16.
We own SSE invested 2.0m during We are targeting a SSE has set itself a target to 2006 07 to increase its stake reduce by 20% the amount in Solarcentury, the UKs of carbon dioxide per kilowatt leading independent solar hour of electricity produced at photovoltaics company.
The power stations in which it has development of low carbon an ownership or contractual buildings is an example of interest.
The base year for SSEs 13.3 20 the new opportunities for target is 2005 06 and it is aiming SSE, with Southern Electric to achieve the target by 2015 16. per cent of the share capital per cent reduction in the Contracting now the preferred of Solarcentury carbon intensity of our installer for Solarcentury.
electricity production Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Statement continued 22 EMISSIONS STATEMENT Sustainability We aim to operate ethically, taking the long-term view to achieve growth while safeguarding the environment.
Evidence shows its important to minimise the release of carbon dioxide from using fossil fuels.
Thats why weve committed to reducing the amount of carbon dioxide for each unit of electricity produced from power stations.
Its all part of the move to a more sustainable way of producing energy.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 23 on to its domestic gas and electricity SSE will report on its progress against SSE will also be working to ensure that customers much less than the full extent the 2016 target each year and the decisions all generation plant is well-maintained, of the increases and it deliberately delayed it takes and the investments it makes with timely investment in asset replacement any price rises.
As a result, its customers will be guided by it.
Like most long-term and refurbishment projects and that paid an average of 340 less for their gas targets, achievement will be influenced the new generation projects at Beatrice, and electricity over three years than by circumstances outside its control, but Drumderg, Ferrybridge, Fiddlers Ferry, customers of British Gas.
SSE is very serious in its aim to make Glendoe, Marchwood, Tangy and Toddleburn such a significant cut in carbon intensity.
proceed on time and on budget.
On 1 March 2007, SSE started implementing That is why it already has such extensive cuts in prices for domestic gas customers, involvement in developments designed to It will also consider whether to install a the first such cuts for six years, and it deliver much more renewable energy, Super-critical Boiler and post-combustion started to implement cuts in prices for carbon capture and storage and increased carbon capture equipment at Ferrybridge, domestic electricity customers on 1 April.
thermal efficiency of power plant.
It will and progress needs to be made with its The price cuts meant SSE continued to be maintain a balanced approach to reducing plans for new onshore wind developments.
the UKs cheapest supplier of energy and carbon intensity in the years ahead.
it is hoped that they marked the start of As is the case throughout the generation a sustained downward trend in the prices Alongside the White Paper, the UK sector, these projects and plans may be paid by customers.
government published its consultation subject to the impact of increasing capital on proposals to modify the Renewables costs and skills shortages as worldwide Customer Service Obligation, so that it ceases to be technology demand for electricity infrastructure Central to success in Energy Supply is neutral and features four technology bands continues to rise.
maintaining the highest possible standards to be fixed from 2009 to 2013.
It remains of customer service.
In May 2007, SSE unfortunate that the Obligation has been SSE will also continue to monitor again secured recognition for the best the subject of a fundamental review when developments in other generation overall customer service in the large-scale it was originally conceived and presented as technologies such as offshore wind customer satisfaction survey in energy a stable mechanism for the long-term.
The and carbon capture and storage.
In the key test for the proposals in the consultation Following the publication of the Energy results of the JD Power 2006 UK Electricity document is whether they represent an White Paper, it will also continue to and Gas Customer Satisfaction Study, adequate framework for future investment in participate actively in the debate about announced in November, SSE was ranked those mature renewable energy technologies how best to meet the UKs need for first amongst gas suppliers and second which are most likely to make a meaningful diverse, more secure and lower carbon amongst electricity suppliers.
contribution to the achievement of EU and sources of energy.
UK government targets, while protecting This recognition followed the introduction capital already invested on the basis of the Energy Supply by SSE of a Domestic Energy Customer Obligations original structure.
Specifically, Further growth in customer numbers was Charter in 2006, the first of its kind in therefore, SSE is considering the proposals a key priority for SSE during 2006 07 and the UK energy supply industry.
Part of a with regard to biomass investment and the its energy supply business had 7.75 million energy supply customers at 31 March 2007, comprehensive performance improvement future potential for hydro electricity.
a net gain of 1.05 million in 12 months.
programme in SSEs Customer Service This comprises 4.95 million electricity division, the completion of which was one Generation Priorities for 2007 08 customers and 2.80 million gas customers.
of SSEs priorities for 2006 07, the Charter During 2007 08, SSEs key objectives in In addition, SSE had reached 100,000 talk reflects a commitment-based approach generation will be to ensure that its diverse telecoms customers, giving it an overall to general customer enquiries, so that portfolio of power stations is available to customer base of 7.85 million.
Within the a much greater number of customer generate electricity, with the maximum total, SSEs business customers now cover enquiries are dealt with at the first possible efficiency, in response to customer 390,000 sites throughout Great Britain.
demand and market conditions, while Including telecoms, SSE has achieved complying fully with all safety standards and a net gain of 3.35 million customers in It is in line with research which has environmental regulations.
The achievement the past five years, an increase of 74%.
confirmed that the key frustrations for of these objectives will be supported by the customers are the length of time they delivery of a comprehensive programme This growth is deliberately and clearly spend on hold when seeking help over the which has been established to identify further related to SSEs responsible pricing policy.
telephone and being passed to more than improvements in the management and It meant that, during periods of rising one company representative.
In other words, operation of its portfolio of power stations.
wholesale energy prices, SSE passed while technology has its part to play in Did you know?
We supply energy to over SSE is one of the largest We achieved a SSE had the lowest number suppliers of electricity and gas of customer complaints in the with over 7.75 million customers.
UK energy supply industry in It brings together the Southern 2006 07.
Watchdog energywatch Electric, Scottish Hydro Electric, received 840 complaints about SWALEC and Atlantic brands.
This compares with 2,509 In addition, SSE provides its for the second-best performing 7.75 47 talk telecoms product to company and 37,100 for the around 100,000 customers, poorest-performing company, million customers per cent reduction taking its total customer British Gas.
in the number of base to over 7.85 million.
customer complaints Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Statement continued 24 In line with this, in June 2006, SSE began supporting service delivery, customers vouchers, to energyplus Pulse, which the phased introduction of a new domestic like to interact directly with company supports the British Heart Foundation.
boiler installation and maintenance and representatives.
SSE has, therefore, Of SSEs 7.75 million energy supply repair service for gas central heating broadened the role of its advisers and customers, around 1.34 million now systems.
The product features an annual actively extended call times to ensure have loyalty products an increase inspection, full breakdown and emergency there is a full understanding of customers of around 60% during the period.
In 2006 07, this helped SSE customer helpline.
It covers customers to bring its customer churn rate down As part of a six-figure, three-year entire gas central heating system, including from over 14% in the previous year to sponsorship package agreed in January the boiler, pipe work, radiators, cylinders below 13% for the first time.
2007, SSE under the brand name Scottish and tanks.
Establishing the new business Hydro Electric and Scottish Rugby have was a priority for 2006 07, and its launch Other achievements stemming from agreed to collaborate on the provision and has gone well.
While its first-year losses the programme include a large increase marketing of a new electricity and gas tariff, were around 4m, the service had already in the number of customers receiving a energyplus Rugby, which is scheduled for attracted over 20,000 customers by the end minimum of two bills each year based on launch later in 2007. of March 2007.
This growth should continue actual as opposed to estimated meter and accelerate as the number of postcode readings.
Bills themselves have been The Energy White Paper said the starting areas covered by the service has now totally re-designed to make them clearer point for our energy policy is to save energy.
increased from 13 to 24, with a further and easier to understand.
It said the government would empower 18 postcode areas due to be added in consumers to make more informed energy 2007 08.
The business is, therefore, on SSE believes that this approach is having choices and it also referred to trials of course to become profitable in 2009. a positive impact on its customers smart meters and real-time displays dealings with, and perceptions of, its which enable people to track their energy SSE is on course to be appointed as the Customer Service division.
Despite the use, and in which SSE has been selected partner for the energy services requirements sustained growth in customer numbers, to participate.
for the first phase of a major development SSE secured during 2006 07 another by a leading UK developer.
Under what will significant reduction, of 47%, in the number Against this background, SSE will, later this be an ESCO energy services company of customer complaints received by year, launch a unique energy programme, Agreement, SSE will be responsible for energywatch for resolution.
In its statement which will enable and encourage customers installing an energy centre, including a in April 2007, energywatch said that it had to commit to using less energy and reward Combined Heat and Power CHP plant received 840 complaints about SSE, which them for doing so with vouchers enabling for the development, which will serve over was the best-performing company, over them to get money off their energy bills, 450 apartments, a nursery unit, primary the year.
This compares with 2,509 for A-rated electrical and gas appliances care trust and commercial units.
The the second best-performing company and and energy efficiency measures.
installation of CHP is in line with a planning 37,100 for the poorest-performing company, consent requirement for the development British Gas.
The number of complaints This progress in product development and to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and the about SSE sent to energywatch has fallen marketing, allied to its policy of responsible, SSE design will achieve a 24% reduction, by almost 60% in the last two years, during value-based pricing and commitment to helping the development to achieve the Eco which time the number of customers has improving further its customer service, Homes very good rating.
means that SSEs Energy Supply business when signed, will be a significant milestone should be able to continue the period of in the development of SSEs energy services Product Marketing growth which began at the start of 2002. business and other similar contracts are Energy supply remains intensely competitive expected to follow.
and, in addition to responsible pricing, Energy Services the key to long-term growth will be greater The UK energy market is still focused on Energy Supply Priorities in 2007 08 success in gaining and retaining customers the delivery of units of energy, but a market During 2007 08, SSE will seek to capitalise loyalty.
The performance improvement is beginning to emerge for the supply of further on its strong regional brands, bestprogramme is designed to achieve that, energy services warmth, light and power.
in-sector customer service, responsible as is product development and marketing.
SSEs goal is to deliver products and pricing policy and range of value-adding services beyond the meter which help offers to increase further its number of In line with that, SSE has a suite of it to gain, retain and develop long-term energy supply customers.
Central to this energyplus loyalty products, ranging relationships with customers.
will be the development and deployment of from energyplus Argos, which rewards further improvements to the level of service customers with money-off discount Did you know?
We gained over SSE began the phased We have SSEs Contracting business, introduction of a new Southern Electric Contracting, domestic boiler installation and is one of the largest mechanical maintenance and repair service and electrical contracting for gas central heating systems.
businesses in the UK, with over It had already attracted over 3,500 employees operating from 20,000 customers by March 55 regional offices throughout 20 55 2007 and this should grow Great Britain.
It also trades as further, with the service being SWALEC Contracting, Scottish thousand customers for regional offices in our extended to an additional 18 Hydro Contracting and Eastern our new gas boiler business Contracting business postcode areas during 2007 08.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 25 offered to customers, leading to higher industrial and generation sector.
It also offers During 2006 07 SECs order book exceeded standards and fewer complaints, and the data collection services to the domestic and 90m for the first time.
The order book has successful launch of new products.
been supported by significant contract wins expansion of SSEs services beyond the with a number of leading organisations meter will focus principally on the further Contracting, Connections and Metering such as Marks and Spencer, Texaco and development of the gas boiler installation Overview IBM.
This business now employs 3,500 and maintenance and repair service and Contracting, Connections and Metering people and, to support future growth, on securing additional ESCO Agreements.
delivered operating profit of 51.6m during recruited 92 apprentice electricians 2006 07, compared with 47.0m in the during the year and expects to recruit CONTRACTING, CONNECTIONS AND previous year excluding the 3.4m a further 200 apprentices during 2007.
METERING operating profit from Thermal Transfer, the specialist contracting business sold Connections k Operating profit up 9.8% to 51.6m, by SSE on 31 March 2006.
Continued expansion of its Connections excluding Thermal Transfer which business was among SSEs priorities for was sold on 31 March 2006 Contracting 2006 07, and during the year it completed k Leeds City Council street lighting SEC made significant progress against its 44,600 electrical connections, 1,700 more PFI launched key priorities for the year of broadening than in the previous year.
In addition, k Continued expansion of out-of-area further its geographic presence and it has continued to develop its portfolio of electricity networks, with 38 now in ensuring there continues to be good electricity networks outside the Southern operation or under construction performance in the long-term contracts Electric and Scottish Hydro Electric Power k New water business on track for launch which are central to its ongoing business Distribution areas.
It now owns and operates k In-sourcing of Metering work in three development.
24 electricity networks outside these areas of the UK two areas and 14 additional networks are k In line with the priorities for 2006 07, under construction, including: St Davids Introduction to Contracting, Connections the integration of Harrison Smith has Centre, Cardiff: Manor Royal, Crawley: and and Metering been completed and is already allowing Quartermile, Edinburgh.
As with its domestic SSEs Contracting business, Southern SEC to offer its customers in the north gas boiler service, this is a relatively new Electric Contracting SEC, has three main of England a more comprehensive range business for SSE, which is on course to areas of activity: industrial, commercial of mechanical and electrical services.
become profitable during 2007 08. and domestic mechanical and electrical contracting: electrical and instrumentation k SECs Eastern Contracting division, SSEs Connections business is also a engineering: and public and highway acquired in 2005, won the second phase licensed gas transporter, owning and lighting.
It is one of the largest mechanical of an infrastructure contract at the operating gas mains and services in many and electrical contracting businesses Colchester Barracks re-development, parts of the country.
The number of new in the UK, operates from 55 regional one of the UKs largest PFI projects to premises connected to its gas networks offices throughout Great Britain and also date, following the successful completion has continued to grow, and during the year, trades as SWALEC Contracting in Wales, of phase one of Eastern Contractings it connected a further 9,200 premises, 1,300 Scottish Hydro Contracting in Scotland work.
more than in the previous year, taking the and Eastern Contracting in the east total number of connections to over 44,000. of England.
k SEC also has contracts worth over 700m to replace and maintain street lights for With interests in electricity, gas and SSEs national Connections business provides four local authorities in England under telecoms connections, SSE completed all utility infrastructures and connections the Private Finance Initiative PFI, in a review of the extent of its ability to for new developments.
It designs, finances, partnership with the asset finance offer multi-utility services to larger builds, owns and operates gas, electricity division of The Royal Bank of Scotland.
This ability is presently limited and telecommunications networks This includes the largest-ever street to a contracting role in providing water throughout the country.
lighting PFI in the UK, with Leeds City connections services.
Subject to a short Council, the successful launch of which public consultation, SSE has, therefore, SSEs Metering business provides services was a priority for 2006 07.
It will see sought and secured from Ofwat a so-called to most electricity suppliers with customers the majority of the 110,000 street lights, inset licence which will allow it to install, in central southern England and the north illuminated signs and bollards in the own, operate and supply water and of Scotland.
It supplies, installs and city replaced.
The first 8,500 lighting sewerage services for end-user customers maintains domestic meters and carries points have already been installed.
out metering work in the commercial, Did you know?
We have SSE now owns and operates We own and operate SSE owns and operates the 24 electricity networks outside UKs largest onshore gas the Southern Electric and storage facility at Hornsea Scottish Hydro Electric Power in East Yorkshire, which has Distribution areas and a a total storage capacity of further 14 networks are around 325 million cubic under construction, including metres.
It operates as 38 325 St Davids Centre, Cardiff: a tool for meeting peak Manor Royal, Crawley: and demand for gas.
out-of-area electricity million cubic metres Quartermile, Edinburgh.
networks of gas storage Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Statement continued 26 CONCRETE SOLUTIONS Excellence We continue to get better, smarter and more innovative because we want to be the best in everything we do.
Thats why our Fiddlers Ferry power station will be the first plant in the UK to convert the ash arising from power generation into cement substitute products and industrial minerals.
Recycling in this way makes ash a useful product and helps reduce carbon dioxide emissions from cement production.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 27 The first installation would be at a Charles outcome of the Ofwat consultation on its 43.9 million SBUs at Hornsea for a five-year Church Southern development near Salisbury.
inset appointment, SSE will seek to make term commencing in May 2007.
The average Ofwat said this will create the first new a successful start in water connections.
price achieved per SBU was 41.7 pence per water and sewerage company to serve annum over each of the five years.
domestic customers since privatisation For Metering, the key priority is the in England and Wales 18 years ago.
successful completion of the in-sourcing In March 2006, SSE auctioned 54 million of work in the three additional distribution SBUs for the one-year term which Metering areas, which will be a significant milestone commenced in May 2006.
The average price In total, SSE owns 3.7 million meters and in SSEs long-term objective of building achieved per SBU then was 54.2 pence changes around 250,000 meters each year a national metering business.
After this auction took place, as they reach the end of their useful life important that SSEs participation in the a number of significant infrastructure or to meet customer requests for changed DTI DEFRA Ofgem-sponsored Energy projects designed to address the UKs functionality.
During 2006 07, it collected Demand Research Project, with its focus on increasing dependence on imports of gas around 4.3 million electricity readings and smart metering technologies, is successful.
were completed, which means that 2006 07 1.4 million gas readings.
is likely to prove to be a high point for GAS STORAGE securing value from gas storage units.
SSEs Metering activities have expanded In March 2007, SSE completed its storage following the in-sourcing of meter reading k Operating profit up 104.8% to 55.9m auction of around 63% of the capacity operations in South West England and South k Commissioning of first new storage 121.7 million SBUs at Hornsea for a Wales electricity distribution areas in April capacity at Aldbrough set to start in one-year term which commenced on 2007, and will expand further in July 2007 the autumn of 2007 1 May.
The average price achieved per with the in-sourcing of the meter operator k Planning permission secured to double SBU was 30.1 pence per annum.
work for the South Wales distribution area.
the size of Aldbrough development to This is resulting in the transfer of over 150 over 800mcm One of SSEs priorities for 2006 07 was to employees from Western Power Distribution ensure that Hornsea maintained its excellent to SSE and is intended to result in both Introduction to Gas Storage record of reliability, and during the year it efficiency savings and high standards of SSE owns and operates the UKs largest was 100% available to customers, except service for SSEs customers in these areas.
onshore gas storage facility at Hornsea in in instances of planned maintenance.
Later this year, SSE will also in-source East Yorkshire.
Nine salt caverns have been This enabled customers to manage their meter reading operations and then meter leached into a salt layer 1.8 kilometres gas market risks and exploit gas trading operator work in central and southern below the surface, creating 325 million cubic opportunities.
Scotland, resulting in around 50 posts metres mcm of gas storage capacity.
can be injected at a rate of 2mcm per day Gas Storage Investment and withdrawn at a rate of 18mcm per day, In line with SSEs priorities for the year, Contracting, Connections and Metering which is equivalent to the requirements of the joint venture with Statoil UK Ltd to Priorities in 2007 08 around four million homes.
The services develop at Aldbrough what will become The first priority for SEC in 2007 08 is to offered at Hornsea provide customers with the UKs largest onshore gas storage ensure that it delivers a high standard of a reliable source of flexibility with which to facility is continuing to make good progress.
service to all customers in all of the sectors manage their gas supply demand balance Commissioning of the first three of the nine in which it operates, given such a major and exploit market opportunities.
Capacity storage caverns is expected to get under proportion of its business is repeat.
It will is sold in Standard Bundled Units SBUs, way in 2007.
SSE is investing around 150m also seek to secure further increases in its of which Hornsea has 195 million available in Aldbrough, out of a total of around 225m order book.
To position itself for long-term in total, and each SBU provides capacity to for the development.
With a total new growth, it expects to recruit 200 apprentices.
inject gas into the facility, store gas there capacity of around 420mcm, of which SSE and withdraw gas from it.
will have ownership interest in 280mcm, The Connections business focus will be on Aldbrough will provide valuable gas storage the successful delivery of a growing number Gas Storage Operations for the UK energy industry.
Its flexibility is of utility connections and on continuing to Gas Storage delivered an operating profit demonstrated by the fact that it will enable expand its range of electricity networks of 55.9m, an increase of 104.8% compared gas to be injected at a rate of up to 30mcm outside the Southern Electric and Scottish with the previous year.
The value of, and per day and withdrawn at a rate of 40mcm.
Hydro Electric Power Distribution areas, demand for, gas storage facilities in the UK reinforcing its position as a leading provider continued to be high.
This was demonstrated SSE and Statoil UK Ltd have secured of utility infrastructure solutions to the UK in July 2006, when SSE completed the consent from East Riding of Yorkshire land development sector.
Subject to the auction of around 23% of the capacity Council to increase the storage capacity Did you know?
We are developing SSE, in partnership with Statoil We delivered SSEs combined telecoms UK, is already developing at business SSE Telecom and Aldbrough what will become Neos achieved an operating the UKs largest onshore gas profit of 13.9m during 2006 07, storage facility.
It will have a compared with 13.2m in the total new capacity of around previous year.
The improvement 420 million cubic metres mcm, was mainly the result of higher 420 13.9 of which SSE will have the sales achieved by Neos.
million cubic metres of new million pounds operating SSEs investment is 150m.
gas storage profit from telecoms Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Statement continued 28 at the Aldbrough site beyond that currently overhead fibre optic cable installed on SSEs EXCEPTIONAL ITEM under development subject to reaching electricity network, providing services to agreement under Section 106 of the Town other telecoms providers, companies and k Distribution payments totalling and Country Planning Act.
They are now public sector organisations.
33.0m received plus 0.9m in able to develop a further nine gas storage respect of Barking Power Ltd caverns, taking the total to 18.
If developed Telecoms Operations k On course for recovery of around in full, this would approximately double SSEs combined Telecoms business 98% of agreed claim the amount of gas that can be stored, SSE Telecom and Neos achieved an to over 800mcm.
After the completion of operating profit of 13.9m during 2006 07, TXU Europe Group plc the extension to its maximum capacity, compared with 13.2m in the previous year, In July 2006, SSE received a fourth the Aldbrough facility would be able to an increase of 5.3%.
The business offers distribution payment of 24.5m from the provide enough gas in a day to supply customers a national telecoms network, and administrators of TXU Europe Group plc around 13 million homes.
has a UK-wide sales force and a competitive in respect of its agreed claim of 294.2m range of products targeted at commercial relating to a 14-year contract originally The extension is designed to be largely and public sector customers.
As a subsidiary entered into in 1997.
This was followed under ground, and the intention is to use of SSE, it is also able to position itself as one by a fifth distribution payment of 8.5m, above ground facilities already on site, of the UKs most financially secure telecoms taking the total direct receipt from the although some additional development network operators, which gives an important administration process excluding Barking would be required.
Construction of the competitive advantage.
Power to 33.0m in 2006 07 and to 284.2m extension would help to ensure that the overall.
Following the fifth distribution, UK can meet gas demand during periods The improvement in performance during SSE has received 96.6% of its agreed claim.
It is expected that 2006 07 was mainly the result of higher In addition, SSE received in July 2006 a it would cost less than the current sales achieved by Neos, one of the telecoms share 0.9m of the distribution payment development.
SSE would contribute 50% priorities during the year, and important to Barking Power Ltd, in which SSE now of the cost of the extension in return contracts were signed with a diverse range has a total stake of 30.4%.
for ownership of 50% of the capacity.
of major organisations, such as Opal On completion of the extension, SSE would Telecom part of the Carphone Warehouse When it received its first distribution in have effective ownership of over 800mcm and AT&T and new customers such as March 2005, SSE said it expected that over of gas storage capacity, including Hornsea.
Schlumberger Limited, one of the worlds 75% of its agreed claim would be settled.
It expects to receive further, smaller Gas Storage Priorities in 2007 08 distributions over the next few years, SSEs priorities in Gas Storage during Telecoms Investment which would result in around 98% of 2007 08 are to: maintain its excellent Neos has decided to upgrade its ethernet its agreed claim being settled.
record of reliability at Hornsea: ensure that platform a frame-based technology the first of the new caverns at Aldbrough are connecting computer systems to form INVESTMENT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURE commissioned: and make material progress a network, with an investment of over with the preparation and planning for the 5m to be made over five years.
This will Investment and capital expenditure is a key extension of the Aldbrough development.
support future new business growth.
means by which SSE seeks to enhance and create value and it totalled 663.4m during TELECOMS Telecoms Priorities in 2007 08 2006 07, including 32.5m in respect of SSEs priority in Telecoms in 2007 08 is Marchwood Power Ltd, compared with k Operating profit up 5.3% to 13.9m to continue to grow its sales, using its 502.1m in the previous year.
k 5m investment to upgrade ethernet already-established nationwide network, platform with its competitive range of products Capital expenditure in Power Systems was targeted at commercial and public sector 204.5m, compared with 172.1m in the Introduction to Telecoms customers.
It will also seek to complete previous year.
The increase is in line with SSE Telecom currently provides radio sites the process of re-focusing its telecoms the Distribution Price Control Review for for local authorities, mobile operators and business on network-related services, 2005-10.
A major part of the investment emergency services throughout central including possible fibre optic extensions programme is focused on the reinforcement southern England and the north of Scotland, as opposed to site-related services.
and replacement of parts of the electricity enabling customers to improve their coverage network that date as far back as the 1960s.
Its subsidiary, Neos, operates a 7,500km UK-wide telecoms network, including 1,100km of underground and Did you know?
We delivered SSE delivered 663.4m of We plan to invest over Over the three years to March investment and capital 2010, SSEs capital expenditure expenditure during 2006 07, and investment is estimated to compared with 502.1m in be over 2bn, compared with the previous year.
Its capital 1.5bn in the three years to expenditure will continue to be March 2007.
All investments substantial during the rest of are expected to achieve returns 663 2.0 this decade, with investment which are greater than the cost in Generation, Gas Storage of capital and are expected to million pounds of investment billion pounds over the next and Electricity Networks.
and capital expenditure three years Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 29 Teamwork We support and value our colleagues and enjoy working together as a team in an open and honest way.
Thats why over 1,000 SSE people were mobilised from all parts of the country, to become involved and help restore supplies to our 200,000 customers who lost their power in the January 2007 storm in central southern England.
It was yet another team effort by SSE.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Statement continued 30 The maturity profile reflects the medium-toIn addition, there was investment of 220.9m At 31 March 2007, 82.6% of SSEs long term nature of SSEs underlying assets for growth in Generation during the year, borrowings were at fixed rates, after and means that its debt structure continues with the progress of the Marchwood taking account of interest rate swaps.
to be strong going forward, with around development, construction work being 1.8bn of borrowings in medium to longcarried out at Glendoe and the installation SSEs liquidity policy is to ensure that it has term funding in the form of issued bonds of FGD equipment and other work such as committed borrowings and facilities equal and European Investment Bank borrowings.
the installation of re-designed high-pressure to at least 105% of forecast borrowings over A total of 20.4% of SSEs borrowings will turbines and static blades at Fiddlers Ferry a rolling 12 month period and on 31 March mature in the 12 months to March 2008. and Ferrybridge.
2007 it held undrawn borrowings and facilities of 650m.
Net Finance Costs As well as Power Systems and Generation, The basis of the presentation of net finance 41m was invested in the ongoing As the United Kingdom is SSEs main costs changed on adoption of IFRS and the development of the new gas storage area of operation, foreign currency risk table below reconciles reported net finance facility at Aldbrough.
is limited mainly to procurement contracts, costs to adjusted net finance costs, which fuel purchases and commodity hedging SSE believes is a more meaningful measure.
Of its expected total investment of around transactions.
Its policy is to hedge all Following review during the year, net income 150m, SSE has so far invested 123m material foreign exchange exposures associated with pension scheme assets and at Aldbrough.
Within the total, capital through the use of forward currency liabilities is no longer excluded in arriving at expenditure for growth, including purchases and or derivative instruments.
In line with this, Marchwood, was 394m during 2006 07.
Indirect exposures created by SSEs gas SSEs adjusted net finance costs during This mainly comprised electricity generation purchasing are similarly hedged on an 2006 07 were 151.8m, compared with and gas storage.
Capital expenditure will continue to be Net Debt and Cash Flow March 07 March 06 substantial during the rest of this decade, As at 31 March 2007, SSEs net debt m m with investment of around 850m expected was 2.233bn, compared with 2.166bn in 2007 08.
This will focus on Generation, at 31 March 2006, an increase of 66.5m.
Reported net finance costs 48.1 89.4 including FGD installation and Marchwood, Underlying cash generated from operations add less Electricity Networks and Gas Storage.
increased significantly compared with Share of JCE In total, over the next three years to the previous year, reflecting increased Associate interest 117.9 97.3 March 2010, SSEs capital expenditure profitability.
Convertible debt and investment is currently estimated to IAS 32 adjustment 3.6 3.6 be over 2bn, compared with 1.5bn in the Borrowings and Facilities Movement on derivatives 10.6 43.5 three years to March 2007.
All investments The objective for SSE is to maintain a Adjusted net finance costs 151.8 139.6 are expected to achieve returns which are balance between continuity of funding greater than the cost of capital and are and flexibility, with debt maturities Return on pension expected to enhance earnings.
staggered across a broad range of dates.
scheme assets 130.1 115.7 Its average age of debt as at 31 March 2007 Interest on pension was 13.8 years, compared with 12.7 years FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT scheme liabilities 107.2 100.0 as at 31 March 2006.
Notional interest arising Treasury Policy on discounted provisions 1.4 4.3] During the year, a new 100m index-linked SSEs operations are financed by a bond, maturing in 2056, with a coupon combination of retained profits, bank Adjusted interest costs 173.3 151.0 of 1.429%, was issued by Scottish Hydro borrowings, long-term debt issuance and Adjusted finance income and costs Electric Power Distribution: and in March commercial paper.
As a matter of policy, for interest cover calculation 2007, a 150m bond originally issued by a minimum of 50% of SSEs debt is subject Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution, to fixed rates of interest.
Within this policy The average interest rate for SSE, excluding with a coupon of 7.875% matured.
As a framework, SSE borrows as required at JCE Associate interest, during the year was result, the average cost of SSEs longerboth fixed and floating rates, with interest 5.31%, compared with 5.42% in the previous dated debt has decreased and the average rate swaps and forward rate agreements year.
Underlying interest cover was 11.0 age of its debt has increased.
being used to achieve the desired profile.
times, compared with 9.2 times the previous All borrowings in foreign currencies are year, and including interest related to SGN it swapped back into Sterling.
was 7.1 times 6.6 times in the previous year.
The average age of our debt is SSE seeks to maintain a The tax rate was The effective adjusted current balance between continuity tax rate, based on adjusted of funding and flexibility, profit before tax, was 26.2%, with debt maturities staggered compared with 26.5% in the across a broad range of dates.
previous year, on the same Its average age of debt as at basis.
31 March 2007 was 13.8 years, 13.8 26.2 compared with 12.7 years as at 31 March 2006. years per cent Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 31 Within the adjusted net finance costs of scheme asset of 128.1m are recognised of excellence across all aspects of its 151.8m, SGNs net finance costs were in the balance sheet at 31 March 2007, operations: adhering to the series of 70.6m compared with 54.1m in the gross of deferred tax.
This means that there well-defined and established financial previous year, after netting loan stock was a reduction of over half in net liabilities principles set out under Financial Overview: interest payable to SSE.
Its contribution compared with the position at March 2006, and operating and investing in a balanced to SSEs profit before tax was, therefore, from 193.8m to 91.9m.
range of regulated and non-regulated 32.5m, compared with 48.6m in energy-related businesses, thereby limiting the previous year, reflecting lower During 2006 07, employer cash contributions both the extent of any single risk and the transportation volumes.
to the Scottish Hydro Electric scheme value associated with it.
Contributions to the TAX Southern Electric scheme, including deficit At an operational level, comprehensive repair contributions of 34.3m, amounted procedures for internal control and risk To assist the understanding of SSEs tax to 50.3m.
As part of the Distribution Price management are in place throughout SSE.
position, the adjusted current tax charge Control for 2005-10, it was agreed that These procedures are actively maintained is calculated as follows: allowances for 76% of deficit repair and regularly reviewed through an audit contributions should be recoverable programme which addresses the full March 07 March 06 via price controlled revenue.
spectrum of SSEs potential risks.
This is m m complemented by an ongoing programme of business improvement initiatives designed At 31 March 2007, there was a net asset Reported tax charge 301.5 254.6 to secure continuous progress in processes arising from IAS 39 of 45.0m, before tax, add back: and procedures and further improve the compared with a net asset of 46.5m, Share of JCE overall management and performance before tax, at 1 April 2006.
less: PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES Deferred tax 27.3 37.7 Safety and the Environment Exceptional tax 25.4 15.3 SSE aims to create value for shareholders The Directors of SSE did not exercise Adjusted current tax charge 282.6 231.5 by running the business with a strong their authority to purchase, in the market, emphasis on safety and on sustainability the companys own shares during 2006 07. achieving growth while safeguarding the The adjusted effective current tax rate, They are, however, seeking at the Annual environment.
During 2006 07, the number based on adjusted profit before tax, was General Meeting on 26 July 2007 renewal of lost time and reportable accidents within 26.2%, compared with 26.5% in the previous of their authority to purchase, in the market, the company was 11, compared with 17 in year, on the same basis.
The impact of SSEs the companys own shares should conditions both 2005 06 and 2004 05.
This means there higher capital expenditure programme and be appropriate.
were 0.05 reportable and lost time injuries the changes introduced in Budget 2007 are per 100,000 hours worked in SSE during likely to have a positive effect on the effective CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2006 07 compared with 0.17 five years ago, current tax rate in the coming years.
The in 2001 02. headline tax charge was 26.6%, compared Risk Management with 28.3% in the previous year.
SSE is mindful of the risk factors that may The number of serious, or potentially affect it and they were again reviewed by the serious, road traffic accidents involving BALANCE SHEET Board in March 2007.
Broadly, the principal employees driving company vehicles was 19, risk factors fall into four categories: compared with 17 in 2005 06, 24 in 2004 05 SSE maintains one of the strongest balance the operation of assets, equipment and and 50 in 2003 04, the first year for which sheets in the global utility sector.
This processes: financial risks, such as interest data is available.
They included a fatal injury gives it significant competitive advantages.
rate and commodity exposure: the impact to a trainee linesman in a tragic accident It enables SSE to pay interest at lower of public policy or regulatory developments in Hampshire in February 2007 and SSEs rates than would otherwise be the case in the areas of energy and the environment: condolences continue to be extended to and also enables it to respond speedily to and the impact of the weather on SSEs his family and friends.
opportunities which emerge to invest in, interests in the generation of electricity or acquire assets.
It is also characteristic from renewable sources, in energy supply SSEs target for any given year is zero of utility companies which are built to last.
There were no such incidents during 2006 07.
In line with the IAS 19 treatment of pension At a corporate level, SSE seeks to address scheme assets, liabilities and costs, pension these risks by: maintaining the strongest scheme liabilities of 220.0m and a pension possible focus on the consistent delivery Did you know?
Our net pension liabilities were During 2006 07, there was We had During 2006 07, the number a significant improvement of lost time and reportable in SSEs net pension scheme accidents within SSE was 11, liabilities, which fell by more compared with 17 in both than half, from 193.8m 2005 06 and 2004 05.
means there were 0.05 such accidents per 100,000 hours 91.9 0.05 worked, compared with 0.08 in the previous year.
million pounds reportable and lost-time injuries per 100,000 hours worked Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Statement continued 32 of SSEs businesses.
It is this operational Corporate Responsibility Index and This strategy and these principles have focus which has enabled SSE to gain over Business in the Environment Index been shown to be robust in a wide variety of three million customers in the past five Business in the Communitys Corporate financial and operational conditions and SSE years, including one million customers Responsibility Index provides an authoritative will continue to adhere to them in the future.
during 2006 07, and which is expected benchmark for companies to evaluate their to lead to further growth in customer management practice in four key areas SSEs financial and operational numbers and expansion in Energy of corporate responsibility community, performance during 2006 07 was strong, Services, Contracting and Connections.
environment, marketplace and workplace and the foundations have been laid for this and performance in a range of environmental to continue well into the future.
That future As it did between 2002 and 2005, SSE may and social impact areas material to their will be shaped to a significant degree by also seek to create value for shareholders business.
the ongoing developments in energy and through the acquisition of assets, but only environment policy taking place within if such acquisitions are compatible with its The results of the Index for 2006, in the UK and at EU level.
which 128 companies participated, were developments are geared to addressing published in May 2007.
SSEs score was what the UK government has described All of this illustrates the fact that there 98.5%, compared with 97.5% in the previous as immense challenges... energy security are significant growth opportunities in UK year, putting the company in the highest and climate change.
energy networks, supply and services.
While possible performance band of Platinum.
SSE is clearly the broadest-based UK energy Within the main Index is the Business in the This means there will have to be significant company, it is not yet the largest participant Environment Index.
SSEs score was 99.58%, reductions in emissions of carbon dioxide, in any part of it, except in the generation compared with 99.20% in the previous year.
while maintaining reliable and affordable of electricity from renewable sources.
Its supplies of energy in a carbon-constrained carefully-maintained financial strength Teamwork world.
In other words, there will have to be and its focus on operational excellence The progress made by SSE is due to a substantial fall in the amount of carbon mean SSE is well-positioned to expand the professionalism, commitment and dioxide emitted per kWh of electricity its presence in those activities where it teamwork of its employees.
For that reason, produced, while securing sustained increases is already a significant player.
and reflecting the performance delivered in the efficiency with which energy is used.
in 2006 07, every person who was employed The recommended full-year dividend for by SSE on 31 March 2007, and who is still This is presenting SSE with major investment 2006 07, of 55 pence per share, is double the in employment will receive a special award opportunities in electricity generation from dividend paid to shareholders for 1999 2000. comprising: an offer, free of charge, of 20 coal, gas and renewable sources.
SSEs With its first responsibility to shareholders shares in the company: a cash award of long-term objective of providing a wider being to deliver sustained real growth in the 150: a 50 virtual voucher to spend variety of energy-related services is also dividend, SSEs next long-term objective online with WWF-UK, the worlds largest fully in line with the direction of public must be to double it again.
independent conservation organisation: policy in the UK.
and an additional days holiday.
The need for secure supplies of energy, STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK including the primary fuel with which to generate power, and robust means of SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy distributing it, is also paramount, and sets people need in a reliable and sustainable the context for SSEs plans for significant way.
In line with this, its strategy has been investment in new gas storage capacity in and will continue to be the delivery of the UK and in its electricity networks.
sustained real growth in the dividend payable to shareholders through the As a result of all of this, SSEs asset base in each of its key areas of activity will again efficient operation of, and investment in, expand significantly in the coming years.
a balanced range of regulated and nonThis value created through investment will regulated energy-related businesses.
be complemented by value enhancement Implementation of the strategy is founded through the strongest possible focus on on a series of well-established financial operational excellence across all aspects principles.
We achieved SSEs score in the Business in We recommend a dividend of The recommended full-year the Community Corporate dividend for 2006 07, of 55 pence Responsibility Index was 98.5%.
per share, is double the dividend This gave it the highest possible paid to shareholders for performance band of Platinum 1999 2000.
With its first in the Index, which evaluates responsibility to shareholders management practice in four being to deliver sustained real 98.5 55 key areas of corporate growth in the dividend, SSEs responsibility community, next long-term objective must per cent in the Corporate pence per share environment, marketplace be to double it again.
