Sales Operating profit 06 07 480.2m 06 07 56.1m 05 06 443.1m 05 06 47.2m 04 05 423.7m 04 05 40.0m At constant exchange rates At constant exchange rates which will enhance peoples sex lives and contribute to their general wellbeing.
The Durex range has been extended considerably over recent years and now includes premium condoms such as Performa and Pleasuremax, vibrators, such as the Play Vibrations vibrating ring and a range of personal lubricants.
Q How are you driving the growth of Scholl footcare?
GW The strong performance by Scholl footcare this year comes from a combination of consumer-led innovation, well-executed implementation and effective advertising.
Our new products are supported, where appropriate, by strong clinical trial data, for example Freeze Verruca & Wart Remover which has been proved to be as successful as Garry Watts the freezing treatment used by healthcare professionals.
Chief Executive Officer Also, we took the decision this year to bring forward around 6 million of our advertising expenditure to the first half of the year to ensure we timed our advertising campaigns Q Are you satisfied with the progress you have made to get the most out of our investment.
Last year we set a new financial target Q Slower growth has been reported for Scholl footwear after virtually achieving our previous target a year early.
Our than in your other global categories.
new target is to achieve double digit operating profit growth GW As we have said before, our focus over the past two in each of the three years to 2008 09 and in this, the first years has been to develop our European footwear business year, we achieved operating profit growth of 19 per cent.
which represents the clear majority of the whole.
We are By continuing to invest in our brands and maintaining a tight seeing pleasing results in this division as sales in Europe grew control of the cost base we fully expect that we will achieve by 5.7 per cent.
However, we have seen a decline in Japan our target in each of the next two financial years.
and Thailand where there is a high level of competition and low pricing.
Q Durex continues to show very strong growth.
What are the key drivers of this?
Q You have embarked on a programme to GW The Durex brand is evolving: it is becoming the number implement a new IT system throughout Europe.
one authority on sexual wellbeing.
Through consumer Why has this been necessary?
studies and surveys, such as the Sexual Wellbeing Global GW The evolution of SSL has meant that IT systems Survey we have obtained in-depth insight which gives us a across the Group, whilst robust on a stand-alone basis, unique dataset about consumers sexual needs.
From this are disparate, thus creating complexity and a lack of visibility base we can continue to innovate and launch new products of information on a Group-wide basis.
Implementing SAP 06 07 By continuing to invest in our Chief Executives review continued Our strategy brands and maintaining a tight control of the cost base we fully expect that we will achieve our target in each of the next two financial years creates a single stable IT platform giving greater efficiency, Q You have continued to place investment in people increased responsiveness and more accurate information.
Why is this so important to you?
To date, eight of our European markets have implemented GW SSLs people are its greatest strength.
Attracting, SAP with good results and we expect the roll-out across motivating and retaining them is key to our future business Europe to be complete by 2009. success.
We have considerable breadth and depth of management expertise in SSL and we continue to invest Q You have previously stated that you are keen to in training and development programmes to help all our make acquisitions.
people maximise their potential and their contribution GW In January this year we completed the acquisition to the business.
of our joint venture in China for 19.2 million.
This is an important step to ensure that we realise the full potential of Durex and Scholl in the rapidly expanding Chinese consumer market.
So far, we have appointed distributors to cover four major regions which together have a population of around 117 million, we have strengthened our local management team, we have established a sales and marketing office in Shanghai and have introduced Scholl Party Feet to the market.
We expect China to be a major growth market for SSL over the next few years.
In addition, we continue to look for suitable acquisition opportunities in Europe and elsewhere in Asia Pacific.
Q What is your attitude to returns to shareholders?
GW Three years ago, having completed the disposal programme, we took the deliberate step to rebase the dividend.
Since then we have seen strong growth in profitability and we have been very pleased to increase dividends payable to shareholders over that time.
We are proposing a final dividend for 2006 07 of 4.7 pence per share, a 7 per cent increase over last year.
We believe we can achieve our targets through a combination of: consumer insight-led innovation cutting edge advertising investing in efficient business processes the training and development of our people Our strategy SSLs business strategy We aim to exploit the economic potential of both our brand portfolio and our global operating assets by focusing on consumer insight-led innovation cutting edge advertising efficient business processes training and development of our people SSLs culture We are committed to our vision that SSL should become and remain successful, socially responsible and lively through the application of our operating principles attitude behaviour culture SSL brands SSLs brands are innovative, high quality and premium products.
They have been developed and adapted in response to consumer needs and 21st century lifestyles.
Our international portfolio successfully blends the very best of old and new: building on the heritage and history of brands like Durex and Scholl with state-of-the-art technology, intensive consumer research and creative marketing support.
For more information on our portfolio of brands and the benefit they bring to our consumers please turn the page.
