Chief Executives review We have achieved another strong set of results across the Group, driving The two Virgin Rail Group VRG franchises, West Coast and CrossCountry, growth in our businesses through innovation, partnership and service.
Our have delivered improved punctuality over the last year.
A record 23 million investment in our operations is attracting increasing numbers of passengers passenger journeys were made on Virgin CrossCountry during the year, to public transport.
following the replacement of the entire train fleet and improved services and connections.
On West Coast, passenger volumes have increased by 45% in I am delighted that for the second year in a row, we have been the last nine years, with the improved service offering resulting in rail independently recognised as running Britains best bus operator and we are services winning market share from airlines, and encouraging travellers to continuing to lead the way in developing new products and new ideas.
Our switch from travelling by car to travelling by rail.
com, for example, are making access to low-cost bus and rail travel even easier for customers.
The agreement, in December 2006, of new terms for West Coast has put the franchise on a firm commercial footing through to 2012, allowing VRG to During the year, we made a number of small bolt-on asset purchases in our focus on growing the railway on a sustainable basis in the long-term UK Bus business, which have strengthened our existing operations and interests of passengers, taxpayers and shareholders.
Virgin CrossCountry allowed us to grow the market for bus travel.
We have also progressed the continues to operate on the basis of annual budgets set by the DfT, while we integration of our acquired operations in Merseyside, Yorkshire, Lincolnshire await the outcome of the competition for the New Cross Country franchise.
and Tayside, which are now making a positive financial contribution to the Group.
We are delighted to have been awarded the new East Midlands rail franchise, which is planned to run from November 2007 to March 2015.
We are The UK Bus division has achieved its fifth successive year of like-for-like excited by the opportunities to grow our rail portfolio, along with our passenger volume growth with our continued investment in new, accessible partners, Virgin.
We have submitted joint bids for the New Cross Country vehicles and industry-leading marketing campaigns.
There has also been and InterCity East Coast rail franchises and we look forward to the significant additional travel under the Governments concessionary fares Governments announcement of the successful bidders in due course.
schemes in Scotland, England and Wales.
In North America, we have achieved further like-for-like revenue growth in Our market-leading budget inter-city coach service, megabus.
com, has our operations in the United States and Canada.
We have focused closely on achieved further revenue growth this year, while our joint venture with strong operational delivery, particularly in delivering a high quality and safe ComfortDelGro to provide inter-city coach services in Scotland has attracted service, marketing of our core scheduled and leisure services, and winning significant numbers of new passengers following the introduction of an and retaining contract business.
We have been able to grow our successful improved network of services.
sightseeing operations by the addition of new products and services, and by Stagecoach continues to develop productive partnerships with local offering improved online sales initiatives.
authorities and this approach has produced good passenger volume growth I believe we can look forward to the year ahead with confidence.
Future at our regional bus companies in the UK.
We welcome the UK Governments developments in road-pricing and congestion charging, as well as the review of bus services and have been working closely with the Department growing awareness of the environmental impact of car and airline travel, will for Transport DfT and other stakeholders to ensure partnerships between be positive drivers for the development of our bus, coach and rail businesses.
bus operators and local authorities are strengthened as a result of the Draft Local Transport Bill.
Buses can play a key role in tackling the twin challenges We have a first-class team of employees and managers who have been of congestion and climate change.
If the legislation is right, we believe we central to our success in the past year and we remain committed to can build on the growth in bus use we have seen in many towns and cities delivering for our customers and our shareholders.
across the UK and deliver a further step-change in services.
The completion of the sale of our London bus business has allowed our UK Bus division to focus on our strong regional bus operations where we can drive growth through innovation, investment and strong marketing.
Our UK Rail division continues to perform very strongly, combining further profitability with good operational performance.
We are working closely with Network Rail to ensure these improvements are supported by a better and more consistent level of infrastructure performance.
Brian Souter We were delighted to win the new South Western rail franchise, which Chief Executive started in February 2007, combining the operations of South West Trains 27 June 2007 and Island Line.
We have transformed services to passengers over the past 10 years by investing in new trains, driving up punctuality and improving customer satisfaction.
The new 10-year franchise has started well and we look forward to building on our achievements.
