01 Overview of the year Chief Executives review Our long-term strategy continues to serve us well and, as we reshape our business, I am confident that we will be well placed to deliver further growth in the years ahead.
Overview Overall, Tate & Lyle performed strongly again in the 2007 financial year and achieved good profit growth despite the negative impacts of increases in global energy prices, which added 28 million to our energy costs, reform of the EU sugar regime and foreign exchange translation.
Core value added ingredients achieved good growth and margin gains were achieved on commodity products in the 2007 calendar year sweetener pricing round in both the US and Europe.
Growth was driven mainly by another strong performance in both commodity and value added products at Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas.
Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe which benefited from 25 million lower depreciation due to the impairment charge taken in the year to 31 March 2006 also performed better than expected in the second half-year.
SPLENDA Sucralose operating profit grew modestly, by 3% to 70 million, due to a slower than anticipated acceleration of uptake from major customers.
In constant currency terms growth was 9% and, despite a strong performance from core value added products which grew by 19%, total value added operating profit growth of 14% did not achieve our target of 30%.
Operating profit at Sugars, Europe was lower than the prior year despite a good performance in sugar trading, although this was somewhat lower than the unusually high result that trading delivered in the year to 31 March 2006.
Exchange translation reduced Group operating profit by 16 million.
SPLENDA Sucralose As stated in our announcement on 23 January 2007, the SPLENDA Sucralose business achieved only modest growth in the year, a disappointment in what was otherwise a successful year for the Group.
A number of factors caused the slower than anticipated acceleration of uptake from our major customers: product development life-cycles returning to more normal levels following the Atkins diet period: the depletion of customers security stocks of SPLENDA Sucralose in response to our new capacity coming on stream: and volumes to the US carbonated soft drink sector not meeting our expectations.
We expect the global market for high-intensity sweeteners to grow by 3% to 4% annually by volume and we expect to increase our market share, which we currently estimate at 28%.
Despite this expected growth in sales, higher costs of production as we commission the Singapore plant and increased patent defence costs mean that we expect any growth in operating profit of the division in the year ended 31 March 2008 will be modest and second half-year weighted.
6 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 SPLENDA Sucralose is a highly successful product.
During our three years of ownership of the business we have made excellent progress in establishing manufacturing scale and reliability, and putting in place the distribution and marketing organisation that will be essential to fulfil its potential in this growing market.
We have an extensive product development pipeline across several markets and additional resources have been deployed to help facilitate the process of reformulating our customers products to include SPLENDA Sucralose.
Looking forward, a key focus will be the geographic and product expansion of SPLENDA Sucralose as we complete commissioning and bring the new production capacity in Singapore on stream.
Expansion projects All of our expansion projects, which will promote longer-term value added growth across our business, continue to progress satisfactorily.
Our joint venture plant with DuPont in Loudon, Tennessee, to produce Bio-PDO from renewable resources was completed on time and has begun sales across several categories, including for polymerisation for apparel and carpets, and for direct applications in cosmetics and as fide-icing fluid.
This has been a tremendous achievement in bringing on-line a unique bio-refinery process.
The expansion of our Sagamore plant in the US is now complete.
This increases capacity for making a variety of value added starches used by customers in dairy, beverages, baking, snacks and dressings.
The Loudon expansion, which is adding capacity for value added TM starches, substrate to the Bio-PDO joint venture and ethanol, is on track to be completed in October 2007.
Both these expansions also bring significant environmental benefits by reducing energy consumption and emissions.
Construction has begun on the first phase of our new corn wet mill in Fort Dodge, Iowa, which is due to be completed by March 2009.
The doubling of production capacity at the McIntosh, Alabama, SPLENDA Sucralose facility has been achieved and the new Singapore facility was completed on time and is being commissioned.
Reshaping our business During the year we have continued to restructure our portfolio of businesses to help deliver our strategy to grow our business by improving the contribution from value added products and by reducing the impact of our exposures to volatile raw material and commodity markets and also markets subject to regulatory change.
On 16 April 2007 we announced the signing of an agreement to acquire an 80% holding in German speciality food ingredients group G. C. Hahn & Co. for a total cash consideration of 79 million 116 million.
This investment, which we expect to complete in June 2007, will broaden both our product offering and our customer base.
On 23 April 2007 we announced that we had completed the disposal of our Canadian cane sugar refining business Redpath for a net consideration of 131 million subject to closing adjustments relating to working capital.
The approximate gain on disposal of 55 million will be reported in the year to 31 March 2008.
Redpath, which is reported as a discontinued business in the year to 31 March 2007, was exposed to mark-to-market movements on inventory driven by changes in volatile world sugar prices.
On 9 May 2007 we announced that we are at an advanced stage of exclusive discussions with Syral SAS a subsidiary of Tereos of France, which may lead to the disposal of our interest in the facilities of Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe in the UK, Belgium, France, Spain and Italy.
The transaction contemplated would give rise to a gross cash consideration expected to be in the range of 200 million to 220 million before restructuring costs.
It would be subject to anti-trust approval and could take several months to complete from any signing date.
Further announcements will be made as appropriate.
Tate & Lyles operations in Koog, the Netherlands the main site in Western Europe for cornbased value added starch production, Morocco and the Eaststarch joint venture are excluded from these discussions.
Tate & Lyle will continue to develop its value added ingredients business in Europe through these businesses together with its Global Food Ingredients Group, which includes Cesalpinia Food, and, upon completion, G. C. Hahn & Co. Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 7 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 01 Overview of the year Chief Executives review EU sugar regime The reforms of the EU sugar regime came into effect on 1 July 2006.
Our refineries in London and Lisbon continue to be affected by oversupply of sugar within the EU and this has reduced the profitability of those businesses in the year to 31 March 2007.
A number of actions are being taken to mitigate the impact of the new regime, for example through the development of new export markets within the EU such as Italy, significant investments in efficiency projects at Thames Refinery, and the surrender of quota in Eastern Sugar.
Safety Tate & Lyle has no higher priority than safety, which we believe is fundamental to running a successful business.
Whilst our commitment is to provide a safe workplace for all our employees, the 2006 calendar year was one of stark contrasts in safety.
Despite many of our sites achieving world-class safety performance, I am sorry to report that in July 2006, a tragic accident occurred at our Decatur, Illinois, plant, in which one employee died and two were hospitalised.
As a result of the severity of this incident the Group safety index declined by 40%.
This comes after three years of continuous improvement and reminds us that we must never relax our efforts to achieve and maintain the highest standards of safety.
Environment Environmental impacts are many and varied.
Our three most significant environmental impacts are energy use, water use and non-hazardous solid waste production.
Energy use is by far our most significant impact, and we therefore give it the highest priority.
Managing our impacts to produce a more positive result is good for the environment and also brings economic benefits to Tate & Lyle.
In early 2007, we began a major new environmental project at Thames Refinery to generate significant energy savings.
By March 2009, the Refinery will use renewable biomass to supply 70% of its energy requirements.
By replacing the use of a fossil fuel natural gas with a renewable resource, this project will have significant environmental benefits while considerably reducing manufacturing costs and our carbon footprint.
We are also working with external environmental consultants to start research into our carbon footprint.
Conclusion This has been a year of considerable activity and challenge as we faced the negative impact of reform of the EU sugar regime, higher energy costs and exchange translation.
In response, we have taken a number of significant actions towards reshaping our business to reposition the Group for future growth.
All these activities have had, and continue to have, a considerable impact on our people around the world and I would like to thank them for their dedication, effort and commitment.
Our key areas of focus for the year to 31 March 2008 will be to: Continue the geographic and product expansion of SPLENDA Sucralose by establishing it as the high-intensity sweetener of choice and by implementing long-term growth and cost reduction plans: Reshape our European ingredients business after the assumed completion of the partial disposal of Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe : Complete our expansionary capital project in Loudon, to bring on stream new capacity in Sagamore and Singapore, and to progress the construction at Fort Dodge: Continue the reshaping of our European Sugars business to face the challenges and opportunities of the EU sugar market beyond 2009: and Improve productivity and balance sheet efficiency.
Our long-term strategy continues to serve us well and, as we reshape our business, I am confident that we will be well placed to deliver further growth in the years ahead.
Iain Ferguson CBE Chief Executive 22 May 2007 8 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007
