Business Review Group Chief Executives Review Achieving business benets Following the successful completion of the By bringing these two businesses together largest ever merger in the UK homebuilding we have had the opportunity to blend the industry, we are making excellent progress best practices of each operation to create with our integration plans.
the foundations for a more competitive organisation moving forward.
For example, we At the time of the merger, we outlined a have performed a review of similar housetypes series of business benets that would be from the Bryant Homes and George Wimpey delivered as a result of the transaction and I product ranges to identify improvements to would like to take this opportunity to update quality and reductions in cost that can be you on the advances that we are making in rolled out across future developments.
Pete Redfern We have also been able to optimise our Group Chief Executive Improving margin growth in the UK business structure, with the result that overheads going forward will represent a The UK Housing businesses of both Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey were smaller percentage of overall sales than was the case for either legacy business.
operating in the bottom quartile of the listed peer group in terms of margin performance Both legacy businesses were operating with prior to the merger.
However, the reasons for higher sales rates per outlet than the industry this underperformance were fundamentally average prior to the merger.
Whilst Taylor Woodrow had a very the decision to prioritise margin over volume strong long term landbank, it had higher than and have therefore reduced sales rates since average build costs and was not converting the merger.
In the more subdued market all of the value through the build and sales conditions that we have experienced in the processes.
In contrast, George Wimpeys UK this has meant that we have not had to cost efficiency was amongst the best in the chase sales and therefore that we can be sector, but its landbank mainly comprised more selective with regard to the incentives of more expensive, short term land.
that are offered to secure a sale.
The merger has given us a well balanced I am delighted by the progress that has been land portfolio, a position that neither legacy made by the UK Housing business over the business would have been able to achieve in last six months.
More detail is provided on such a short period of time as a standalone pages 22 to 27, but the evidence of our entity.
This brings with it the ability to benefit success can be seen in the increase in the from the lower land costs associated with pro forma operating margin from 12.8% strategic land, whilst mitigating the risk of in 2006 to 15.2% in 2007. planning delay through the use of short term land to ll in any gaps in the land pipeline.
The basis of preparation of pro forma financial information is set out on page 104.
