Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Governance Statements Information Chief Executives strategic review lower margins than syndicated services: should benefit from cost efficiencies in operations and provision of more value-added services.
Market growth Market information is a growth industry, currently estimated to be growing by around 4-5 per cent per annum.
Its long-term growth potential is estimated to be greater than the wider advertising and marketing services industry.
Growth rates vary by region.
Currently growth is strongest in the regions of Asia Pacific, Latin America, Eastern Europe and the Middle East and Africa, where market information represents a relatively small David Lowden proportion of GDP compared with more Chief Executive mature markets.
Growth drivers In 2007, we continued to make Globalisation and growth of emerging markets excellent progress against key As major multi-nationals look for growth in developing markets and take a more strategic objectives.
By the end global view of their marketing, they require high-quality multi-country of the year, TNS was a stronger information, collected and analysed using consistent methodology.
business, with the right structure Demand for insight and analysis One of the strongest growth drivers in place to deliver our strategic goal.
in the industry is the continued client demand for insights, analysis and TNS strategic goal, supported by its investment in technology and actionable recommendations.
four core principles, is based on research new services drives growth Sector specialisation into what clients now expect from theirhigher margins than The demand for more consumer-related market information and insight providers.
customised research research services from organisations in It is designed to enable TNS to benefitlonger-term contracts, typically the technology, financial services, media from the changes happening in the between one and five years and healthcare sectors.
market information industry, as outlinedhigh barriers to entry below.
Progress against the strategy ismainly consumer and media but Market change measured by our non-financial KPIs.
increasingly used in other sectors.
Changes in clients markets are occurring These are shown on page 28, along at an ever faster pace.
Clients need Custom research with the groups targets in those areas.
increasing levels of information and Based on ad hoc or continuous interpretation that help predict the contracts that are tailored to the needs Market overview implications of these market changes of individual clients, who own the for their businesses.
Market size and segmentation information.
Key attributes are: Technology and media fragmentation In 2006, the global market informationmore discretionary than syndicated, Changing patterns of media consumption industry was valued by Esomar at $24.6 with potential for stronger growth in present significant challenges to billion.
It comprises two main categories.
This is fuelling increased traditionally local and fragmented Syndicated services demand for services in traditional areas but rapidly globalising Information is collected on a regular of advertising and brand effectiveness.
basic data collection becoming basis, mostly from continuous panels.
It is also creating demand for new services more standardised: growing focus It is owned by the research provider to understand consumer behaviour in on quality and sold to multiple clients.
Key an increasingly digitised world.
increased client demand for attributes are: insights and  data that provides current market trends provide a measure of the market steady growth rates through opportunities for larger suppliers the economic cycle to raise barriers to entry 24 www.
com Accountability Our market environment In a changing media environment, where there is potential for more targeted Market information Top 10 campaigns, marketing departments are Rank Company Quoted holding company 2006 revenue $m under greater pressure to prove their effectiveness.
This is leading to strong 1 The Nielsen Company 3696 demand for measurement of the return 2 IMS IMS Health 1959 on investment from marketing activities.
3 TNS Taylor Nelson Sofres 1851 Key industry trends 4 Kantar Group WPP Group IIC 1401 Supplier rationalisation Demand for global services is leading 5 GfK GfK Group 1397 to a rationalisation of market information 6 Ipsos Ipsos 1077 suppliers by major multinational 7 Synovate Aegis 740 organisations.
The trend is for these organisations to develop partnership 8 IRI 665 relationships with the few companies 9 Westat 426 that have the scale and expertise to 10 Arbitron Arbitron 329 meet their needs.
Source: Inside Research, Honomichl Top 25 Budget allocation The impact of technology and other Market information a growth industry $bn Top 10 market share % efficiencies within the operational process 02 16.9 92 36 reinforces the distinction between the provision of data and advisory services.
03 19.2 02 43 Together with the increased participation of 04 21.9 06 57 procurement departments, this means that 05 23.4 clients are looking for more cost-effective 06 24.6 data collection.
At the same time, they are increasing the volume of surveys and allocating more budget on interpretation Regional market information Regional market growth rates 2006 % of data and recommendations.
revenue breakdown 2006 % Adjusted for ination People skills 2.8 Europe 43 Different skills are required to meet the 3.4 demand for insight and analysis.
Market North America 36 6.6 information companies are training and 11.3 Asia Pacic 14 recruiting people to provide a more 9.5 commercial and consultative service.
Latin America 5 Europe Latin America Industry consolidation North America Middle East & Africa Middle East 2 As the major companies have built & Africa Asia Pacic worldwide networks, there has been Source: Esomar Global Market Research Report 2007 significant consolidation in the industry.
However, market information remains Market information growth vs GDP and advertising less consolidated than other marketing % growth services sectors and TNS believes there 12 12 will be further consolidation in the industry.
Market information 10 10 The growth drivers and key industry GDP 8 trends are, and will continue to be, Advertising 6 positive for the larger providers, such as TNS, that have the scale to benefit 4 from them.
2 % 0 -2 -4 -6 -8 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007e 2008e Source: Esomar, IMF, McCann TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Governance Statements Information Chief Executives strategic review In Media Intelligence, good progress further increases in levels of off-shoring.
Performance in 2007 was made with new services launched In 2007, over 630,000 hours of work A successful year in the US, including strong demand for was off-shored to lower cost 2007 was a successful year for TNS.
TNS MI Cymfony, which provides destinations, representing an increase The group reported revenue growth analysis of new forms of social media.
of over 50 per cent from 2006. of 6.3 per cent and improved adjusted Acquisitions made in the year have We continue to reduce unit costs of data operating margin by 60 basis points.
strengthened our European news collection, including the transition of more Cash generation was strong, allowing monitoring offering.
In 2007, the the completion of our share buy back TNS Worldpanel, the groups continuous amount of business attributable to data programme.
In total, 100 million has consumer purchasing business, won collected using internet access panels been returned to shareholders, achieving major new contracts in key markets.
In Europe and Asia, a more efficient balance sheet.
The group In Asia, new speciality panels were this growth was over 20 per cent.
The continued to make excellent progress launched and in Latin America, the proportion of revenue attributed to online against key strategic objectives.
By the geographic footprint was extended data collection in our custom business is end of 2007, TNS was a stronger by increasing ownership of LatinPanel now 25 per cent.
This makes TNS by far business, with the right structure in International to 100 per cent in the largest global provider of internet place to deliver our strategic goal.
Our goal is for this proportion Strategy delivering growth to reach 40 per cent by 2010-2012.
In Strong growth in Global Accounts The performance in 2007 validates our 2008, we will continue to expand internet Global Clients and Sectors, which strategy to become the global leader in research coverage in Europe, Asia and operates across the custom business, delivering value-added insights that help Latin America.
Revenue growth our clients make more effective business from our Global Partnership Accounts Clients are increasingly focused on the decisions.
The strategy is based on clear was 13 per cent, which is more than need for high-quality data.
We believe messages from clients and key industry double the rate of the group overall.
TNS internet access panels are trends: major accounts seeking global Our Global Partnership Accounts are managed to the highest standard in the partnerships: the growing requirement major multinationals that have indicated industry, with consistent processes and for cost effective, high-quality data a desire to partner with fewer suppliers controls in place across the group.
In collection: and the demand for and therefore offer the potential for higher 2007, TNS continued to be a strong informed insights and actionable share of their market information spend.
advocate for quality requirements in recommendations.
They now represent 16 per cent of internet research in our industry, This strategic goal is supported by four custom revenue.
This indicates good marketing our differentiation in this area core principles: client orientation, service progress towards achieving our target to clients and chairing a new industry excellence and cost efficiency, expertise that they represent 20 per cent of initiative the Online Research Quality and innovation and people development.
Council for the Advertising Research For each principle, we have established Foundation in the US.
The overall global account programme targets to be achieved by 2010-2012. has been extended to 50 clients.
We Understanding consumer Key performance indicators have been behaviour expect that this will continue to be a key put in place to measure progress Across the business, new services growth driver for the group in 2008, as against those targets.
Each plank of were launched in 2007, with particular our largest clients look to partner with the strategy has an organisational emphasis on the areas of clients product TNS based on the strength of our global structure in place and is managed by development, innovation and consumer capability.
The continued development a dedicated team, with resources to engagement.
These developments are of the role of the Global Account Director ensure effective implementation.
part of the strategy to deliver more will contribute to that growth.
insights and added-value to clients.
Good performance in Good progress was also made with the A measure of this in the custom business syndicated services Global Sectors within TNS: building their is the revenue growth from Business Our major syndicated businesses again role to identify trends, set sector strategy, Solutions, TNS proprietary products performed well, based on their market implement processes and co-ordinate and services that provide analysis for leading positions and the strength of their account planning.
clients, which was 25 per cent.
There were several key developments and highlights in 2007.
Improvements in operations Two areas of increasing importance for For TNS Media, TNS won contracts for In 2007, we continued to focus on clients are the significance of the retail new digital services in TV audience becoming more cost efficient by environment and the need to understand measurement.
Based on the innovative making improvements to our operational consumer behaviour in a digitised world.
solution we put forward, we also won infrastructure.
A new position, Global In 2007, TNS made good progress in the prestigious BARB Broadcasters Head of Operations, was created to developing new services in these areas.
Audience Research Board contract in co-ordinate the drive for standardisation the UK, which will run from 2010.
These of operations across the group.
This TNS built on existing retail and contract wins provide further evidence includes the more effective use of call shopper services with the acquisition of TNS leading position in the audience centres, a significant reduction in the of three specialist consultancies: two measurement field.
number of delivery platforms and in the US and one in the UK.
com The combination of these businesses Our strategic goal with our consumer panel and custom information provides us with a unique offering that advises retailers and TNS strategic goal is to be recognised as the global leader in delivering value-added information and insights that help our clients to make more effective manufacturers on understanding in-store consumer behaviour.
To achieve this goal, we are focusing on four core principles.
These are based on clear messages from clients and key industry trends.
To take advantage of the substantial opportunities provided by media fragmentation, TNS has combined its Client orientation Media Intelligence and iTRAM Our largest international accounts are businesses.
There has been investment, seeking partnership relationships with fewer suppliers, which have the capability to meet both organically and by acquisition, to their requirements for co-ordinated service provide clients with new services in the on a global basis.
Examples in 2007 include the acquisition of Cymfony, which assesses the impact of consumer Service excellence generated media, and the ongoing and cost efficiency progress made with digital TV audience There is a growing requirement for costmeasurement services in the US and effective data collection.
At the same time, other markets.
clients are increasingly focused on ensuring that the data they receive is high quality.
On 29 February 2008, we announced that TNS has agreed to acquire Compete, Inc. a leading digital Expertise and innovation intelligence company in the US.
This Clients are challenging their market acquisition is an important move for information suppliers to develop new TNS that builds on our ability to help services and deliver the insight that will help them understand consumer behaviour clients understand consumer behaviour in complex markets.
in the new and highly complex digital world.
Compete has built a world-class digital intelligence capability that delivers People development multiple perspectives on how consumers engage with brands online.
Its strength Delivering actionable insight and managing client relationships are key to lies in its ability to provide competitive meeting these demands.
Both require analysis of individuals online behaviour, highly skilled and motivated people.
a rapidly growing section of the market that has enormous potential.
TNS will enhance this offering by putting it together with the understanding of consumer attitudes and behaviour that we gain from our access panels.
We will use our network to offer this powerful Although the near-term macro economic Outlook combination to clients across the globe.
Clients look to market information to outlook is uncertain, we believe that the In the longer term, we will look at the growth potential of the market information help them identify growth opportunities opportunities to add further value by and support their marketing decisions, industry remains strong.
Levels of new using our Worldpanel, retail and shopper business activity in early 2008 are especially in times of increasing and audience measurement capabilities competitive pressures.
Market improved on the previous year.
For the to integrate data on purchasing and remainder of the year, it is anticipated that information remains a small, but rapidly viewing behaviour with internet search growing, proportion of GDP, especially growth in syndicated services will continue and shopping behaviour.
In custom research, it is in emerging markets.
For TNS, our this will allow TNS to develop new syndicated services are typically based expected that continued growth will be syndicated and custom products, achieved in Europe and North America, on annual contracts and tend to grow unique in our industry.
steadily through the economic cycle.
with ALM expected to be strong.
Growth against strategic objectives should also In custom research, TNS has a strong Investment in new services that help franchise and established market continue to be strong.
The group is, clients understand consumer behaviour, therefore, confident that 2008 will positions in most major markets.
In especially in the area of digital media, emerging markets such as Asia, where represent another year of good progress.
will continue to be a priority in 2008. market growth is anticipated to remain healthy, TNS is the market leader.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Governance Statements Information Chief Executives strategic review Delivering our strategy Key developments KPIs measuring progress Global Partnership Accounts Focus on the role of the Global Account Client orientation % of custom revenue Director in building client relationships.
Since Global Clients and Sectors sets the 2006, nine new Global Account Directors strategy across the custom business.
have been appointed to run the 06 15 A structure is in place to manage 13 Global Partnership Accounts.
07 16 Global Accounts, drive sector revenues Overall Global Account Programme extended and co-ordinate multi-country projects.
13% growth in Global Partnership Accounts.
Proportion of custom revenue Creation of a new role Global Head of Service excellence attributable to data collected by Operations with responsibility for driving and cost efficiency efficiencies across the group.
internet access panels % TNS 6th dimension internet access panels Improving efficiency and reducing 06 23 expanded in Europe and Asia.
duplication in the operational infrastructure allows TNS to offer more 07 25 cost-effective services to clients and improve margins.
A key focus is on Level of off-shoring increased 50%.
Revenue from internet access panels up 15%.
New products and services acquired and Revenue growth from business solutions % Expertise and launched to address current client issues.
innovation Acquisition of specialist consultancies to build 06 8 on existing capabilities in Retail & Shopper.
TNS applies a unique combination of 07 25 Creation of TNS Media, combining expertise sector knowledge and research in media intelligence and audience expertise to meet the demand for measurement, as powerful base from which insight and analysis that helps clients to develop further capability in digital media.
Employee commitment TRI M score Detailed plans implemented for each business People development unit, in response to issues raised by Look TNS emphasises recruitment, training Inside TRI M employee commitment survey.
05 56 and development in order to have the Increased emphasis on career development.
07 52 right people to deliver insight and build Focus on assessing strength of leadership stronger relationships with clients.
pool and equipping top 200 managers to be leaders of change.
and this was the case for our North People development American custom business in 2007.
As part of the turnaround, we increased It is a testament to the quality of our skill levels and filled over 300 roles both people that the business made good through internal promotion and external progress towards our strategic goals recruitment.
In our European custom in 2007.
We believe in engaging our business, we created a new regional employees around our strategy, so they board of directors to simplify reporting can play their part in our success.
During the year, we asking them to think and operate in new successfully integrated several small ways, to tap more proactively into our acquisitions into the business.
Having global network, to provide actionable regular, consistent communications with insight and deepen their relationships employees in person was key to this with clients.
All of the changes that have strategy reflects these fundamental shifts.
taken place in 2007 have been designed to create the right business environment Organisational change and integration for TNS employees to achieve their own All businesses need to reorganise from success and help the company deliver time to time to support strategic goals, on its strategy.
com KPIs targets part in this programme, with additional Internal communications leadership development offerings being During 2007, we introduced several implemented in 2008. initiatives to help engage employees 20% with group strategy and direction, Career development and including a new interactive employee Global Partnership Accounts to represent management magazine, which has been extremely well 20% of custom revenue by 2010-2012.
Our employee surveys have highlighted received, and targeted leader that career development is particularly communication, which has helped to important to our talented employees.
We launched a new In the ALM region, we introduced several facebook style employee directory, to initiatives to respond to these findings, support our global knowledge sharing including new toolkits that allow objectives.
The internal communications managers to have high quality, quarterly team was instrumental in developing the 40% career progression discussions.
In the TNS brand values, which will inform our North American custom business, we internal and external communications of custom revenue to be attributable to developed clear career paths by and behaviour.
data collected by internet access panels implementing consistent job titles and by 2010-2012.
Employee engagement salary grade structures, and launched Using TNS TRI M survey tool, in 2007 a formal career planning programme.
we surveyed over 14,000 employees In Europe, employees can now more in 58 countries across the group.
The easily progress their career by moving response rate was high, at 78 per cent.
across functions and geographies, The groups overall TRI M score one of through job rotation and other initiatives.
To become the leading our KPIs for people development was Around the group we are ensuring that 52, slightly down from our 2005 score both employees and TNS gain maximum provider of understanding of 56.
While disappointing, this decrease benefit from experience overseas.
is likely to be a short-term reflection of Learning and development the many changes that were made within In 2007, we continued to offer a robust the group during 2006 and early 2007, learning and development agenda, with to position TNS for future growth.
Each multiple offerings available across the business unit has developed a detailed company, under the umbrella of the Tony plan to address the issues that our Cowling Academy, our learning brand.
people have raised, in order to increase In Europe and ALM we held several TNS their commitment to TNS.
Many 70 University programmes events in which initiatives are already under way in our researchers immerse themselves in response to the survey.
Our long-term Long-term goal to achieve TRI M score our Areas of Expertise and Business goal is to achieve a TRI M score of 70, of 70, placing TNS in the upper quartile Solutions.
North America launched a placing TNS in the upper quartile of of companies to work for.
new Learning Management System to companies to work for.
manage all activities, supported by 70 Looking ahead live online classes.
People development remains a key priority for TNS in 2008, as we continue Performance management Talent management and to develop a strong value proposition to leadership development Creating a high performance culture our current and future employees.
We are In 2007, we focused on assessing the is a top priority for TNS.
Several steps currently recruiting a new HR Director to strength of our top leadership pool.
The have been taken to support this goal.
We will continue to business heads and I have been involved Firstly, we communicate our core and engage our people in an ongoing dialogue in determining how we should assess role-specific competencies across the about how to make TNS a first choice individual performance and potential, group.
Secondly, TNS ensures that place to work, as we align our human strengths and development areas, managers participate fully in the resources management to the successful career planning, retention risk and performance appraisal process, which execution of our business strategy.
We also ran a includes performance assessment, series of Leadership Development development planning, career planning programmes to equip our top 200 and objective setting.
High rates of managers to be leaders of change, appraisal uptake exist across the company, David Lowden using 360 degree feedback on in many cases up to 100 per cent.
Chief Executive behavioural style and adaptability as Thirdly, we are creating more direct links key indicators of personal effectiveness.
between performance management and By the end of 2007, almost 50 per cent rewards, to emphasise the value we place of our top leadership group had taken on high performance.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29
