qxp 19 3 08 20:57 Page 28 CHIEF OPERATING OFFICERS REVIEW OF THE YEAR FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2007 INTRODUCTION important of stakeholders within our business.
The third I am delighted to report a strong and positive performance major development has been our increased focus on health across all brands and businesses within the Group during and safety for all staff, customers, suppliers and other 2007.
Market conditions although difficult in certain areas members of the community that we may come into contact proved on balance favourable, and our best in class with in the varied and vast activities the Group undertakes people took full advantage by delivering creditable market in its normal course of business.
share gains in both trade and retail sectors.
I am especially pleased to welcome Mo Iqbal and his Tile HEALTH AND SAFETY Giant people and business into the Group.
Tile Giant Health and safety remains a Group priority at the most represents a further and exciting development of our senior level and was further enhanced in November 2007, channel and growth strategy and is the seventh major with the formation of a plc Board Health and Safety brand within our portfolio.
committee, chaired by Andrew Simon, an independent We as the wider operations team accelerated our branch non-executive director.
The other committee members are and store network expansion programme across all Tim Stevenson, Company Chairman, Mike Dearden, Senior divisions, securing a total of 107 new outlets gross, 52 of Independent Director, and myself.
The key role of the these being generated via acquisition, with Tile Giant, Committee is to assist the executive management, in their Passmores and SLBM proving the most significant both drive to establish and maintain an industry-leading joining our CCF business and a total of 52 net new performance in health and safety.
Its terms of reference brownfield operations.
I have made comment of this activity are available on our website, under Investor and broken this down in more detail within each brand Centre Corporate Governance.
overview section within this report.
Following the comprehensive review undertaken during We continue to invest in our central functions with the 2006, the revised health and safety policy was launched to specific aim of strengthening our capabilities to deliver the all operating businesses in 2007, via an intensive training best possible service to our customers.
That in turn will, we programme run by the health and safety team.
This John Carter believe, increase overall sales and market share that commenced with all operational directors and then cascaded Chief Operating Officer delivers our sector leading financial performance.
through regional management to all branches and stores.
In I have been particularly pleased with the strong total, we have trained almost 3,000 directors, managers and developments and progress of our commercial and supply their assistants in the new health and safety policy, to ensure chain functions.
They have made significant contributions to its effective implementation across the business.
our performance in 2007 and are confident they will A national manual handling training initiative commenced continue to add value to the overall performance of our mid 2007, in conjunction with an external trainer, to train all business.
I would also highlight our improved effectiveness branch colleagues in safe lifting techniques.
This 12 month and strengthening of our marketing function in both our programme has already demonstrated a significant trade and retail divisions, and the alignment of our reduction in manual handling accidents, with a full review of procurement functions within the Group, as we continue to its impact scheduled for the end of 2008. develop more global sourcing and a global benchmarking A reassessment of occupational noise exposure culture and attitude.
throughout the business took place during 2007, with There were three very significant developments last year.
particular attention being paid to branches with timber mill The first was our continued rollout and embedding of our and tool hire facilities.
Tool hire operations continue to Brand Bullseyes which has enhanced our focus on our operate within or below the lower action level, with timber customers and the level of customer service we provide.
operations noise exposure typically higher.
Hearing We also undertook a comprehensive employee engagement protection continues to be a requirement whenever mill survey You Talk We Listen supported by YouGov which has equipment is in operation, and all future developments will given some clear guidance and direction into areas where endeavour to reduce noise at source.
we should apply increased focus and attention for this most The merchant group assisted the Health and Safety 28 CHIEF OPERA TING OFFICERS REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 20:57 Page 29 David Drake, sales assistant, Executive HSE during the second half of 2007, in hosting Travis Perkins Milford Haven, several roadshows across the country, targeted directly at inspecting a delivery of prepared softwood our customers.
This was scheduled as part of the HSE campaign to raise awareness about the dangers of falls from vehicles, and included case studies on our own recent improvements to all new Travis Perkins and Keyline merchant vehicles and Wickes home delivery vehicles.
Lead Authority relationships with Harrow and Northampton local authorities continue to form an integral part of our operation, in terms of policy development and ongoing support.
With this continuing focus on the importance of health ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE 15 10 5 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 Lost time accidents per million man hours 2004 5 data is for the merchant businesses only.
10 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 Number of days lost per thousand man hours 2004 5 data is for the merchant businesses only.
and safety, it was pleasing to record a further reduction to the group frequency rate, improving 20% against the 2006 performance, from 10 to 8 lost time accidents per million hours worked.
However, there was a disappointing 17% increase in the group severity rate days lost per thousand hours worked, predominantly due to the ongoing absence of 3 colleagues following accidents in 2006.
This is the first annual report to include full group data for accident frequency and severity rates.
These measures were not historically calculated in the retail business, but we have now been able to calculate total group statistics for both 2006 and 2007, and will use this as the measure in future.
After analysing accident trends, all these high risk areas are being addressed in 2008, with significant training and focus on safe working with vehicles and traffic management supported by training DVDs for both topics, plus, more active occupational health support for colleagues, where necessary, after an accident.
It is with great sadness that I have to report a fatality involving an employee of a customer, during a collection 29 C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:07 Page 30 from their site in September 2007.
This involved the our business our people are pivotal in developing customer collapse of a pack of bricks whilst being lifted by the lorry relationships that ensure our existing customers continue to mounted crane, and is still subject to a Health and Safety return and new customers are attracted to our brand.
In the past 2 years we have developed Brand BullsThere was also one health and safety prosecution in eyes for all of our brands.
These articulate the brand 2007, affecting our Keyline business, following an accident essence for each trading brand along with what Travis in 2006, when a driver fell from the vehicle bed whilst Perkins wants customers to think and feel as they interact manoeuvring products for delivery.
In 2007 we felt the time was right to Vehicle loading and unloading procedures have been the examine how our employment proposition and people subject of considerable focus over the years, and continue strategy could be further developed to best support the to remain so.
Safety bulletins and new training DVDs have delivery of our brand.
We wanted to understand more about been produced to summarise the key safety controls for all what our employees thought about working in our business, Keyline Exeter preparing for one of the many deliveries made each day drivers, to ensure all deliveries and collections are in order to build on our strengths and improve areas where completed safely and efficiently.
With that background we Following a major project with our suppliers, product commissioned an independent employee survey You Talk, weights are now printed directly on every invoice, and the We Listen in June 2007, to find out more.
external manual handling training has successfully raised One of our new values - Talk and Listen promises awareness of the need for safe lifting and handling.
that Travis Perkins says what it means clearly and honestly: We remain totally committed to continue the reduction listens carefully: responds objectively: and explains its of accidents across the Group, with a further group decisions.
It was entirely fitting therefore that we should frequency rate reduction of 10% targeted by the end of brand our first group-wide employee opinion survey You 2008.
This should produce a similar improvement to the Talk We Listen.
Through the survey we were keen to group severity rate.
establish the level of engagement amongst our employees I believe our ongoing focus on health and safety will and the strength, qualities and personality of our brand continue to strengthen the overall business performance of identity as an employer.
the Group, and enable us to achieve our vision of ensuring We know that an engaged and committed work force that all employees, and others affected by our business one that is actively living the brand, is likely to perform operations, return home safely at the end of each day.
better, have higher attendance at work and deliver a more positive customer service experience.
As a result we will HUMAN RESOURCES reap rewards in terms of attracting and retaining talent and Our People at the same time build employee engagement, strong We believe that in our case, more than for the majority of feelings of pride about working here and brand advocacy.
other businesses, our success depends on our people.
In There were a number of immediate positives coming 30 CHIEF OPERA TING OFFICERS REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
These were that the level of standard and quality of the services we provide is engagement of the majority of our employees compared dependent on the contribution, application and loyalty of our favourably against national benchmarks supplied by our employees, so in 2006 we launched a new suite of awards independent partner.
We also observed very strong levels under the title, The Building Britain Awards.
2007 was the of advocacy in terms of the businesses products and first year that all of these awards were presented to services together with high levels of loyalty towards, and colleagues at a dedicated gala dinner in July.
They included pride about working in, our business.
Opinions about line managers were particularly positive 149 colleagues received long service awards after and there was a clear understanding of business goals and reaching 25, 30, 35, 40 or 45 years service with the objectives across the Company which was very reassuring.
Group, and two colleagues, Paul Tomes and Brian We also identified a small number of critical areas of Wickham, celebrated an astonishing 50 years service.
improvement for us within the areas of: Paul is a very loyal colleague and takes an immense amount of pride in his work.
Despite reaching 65 last year, he continues to work part time at our branch in Rugby.
Brian started with Travis Perkins in 1957 and he continually applies his knowledge and enthusiasm to a business he has seen evolve dramatically over his 50 years with the Company.
Like Paul, Brian continues to serve on the trade counter, on this occasion at our Bournemouth Wallisdown Road branch.
15 colleagues were also awarded our first ever employee-nominated Special Achievement Awards for Outstanding Contribution.
All the recipients had incredible stories of consistent outstanding customer service, and loyalty to their colleagues and their business.
One colleague saved the life of a fellow colleague just days after taking an in-house first aid course: another has consistently gone beyond the call of duty to prevent fraud being committed against Travis Perkins companies: others were awarded for their passionate charity fundraising for the Groups nominated charities and for their dedication to environmental best practice.
Our management trainee scheme is one of the most successful of any business in the UK.
It started in 1973 and over 51% of trainees are still employed by the Group.
The top year achievers from each business unit are now nominated for the Management Emma McQuade, cashier, Wickes Trainee of the Year award.
The first award was presented Newcastle, taking payment from Reward: to Gary King.
one of the stores many trade customers Training and development: Communications.
Development As well as a number of quick win actions in response to As a result of the success of our management trainee what our people told us was most important, we have scheme, we have increased our investment in this critical designed and introduced a bonus scheme for 2008 for all talent pipeline.
In 2008 we plan to recruit 150 trainees and those employees not in any other scheme.
This is a simple have now extended the scheme to include Wickes.
10 scheme that provides a further opportunity for our people to directors joined our business via this scheme, as well as share in our future success.
We have continued to invest in the development Sharing our success programmes that are in place to support individuals from In addition to the bonus scheme recently introduced, we induction, progressing through each step of the career have a wide range of benefits already open to our ladder - the Master Programme in Wickes, supported by a employees, e. g. : new customer service programme and a new senior Save-As-You-Earn scheme: executive development programme where we are Buy-As-You-Earn scheme: partnering with Insead.
Pension plan: Discounted voluntary benefits.
OUR BUSINESSES The appointment of Joe Mescall and Arthur Davidson as Recognition divisional chairmen for our general and specialist In the Travis Perkins group, we recognise that the high merchanting businesses respectively has been an 31 CHIEF OPERA TING OFFICERS REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
Collectively Joe and Arthur have 65 NUMBER OF BRANCHES EACH OF OUR BRANDS HAS years service within the Group, and bring a vast amount of 1000 CONSIDERABLE knowledge and skill to our Executive Committee.
SCOPE FOR BRANCH Travis Perkins brand NETWORK The Travis Perkins brand is our generalist mixed merchant 500 EXPANSION and remains the cornerstone for the Group both in terms of being the largest brand, and has for many years set the Travis Perkins benchmark for outstanding financial performance.
It is made 206 0 up of 4 geographically based, but discreet business units 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 South East, South West, Midlands and Northern, each with Total number of branches in the Travis Perkins Group.
its own managing director and management teams.
594 Current Potential Keyline 60 80 Current Potential CPS 181 189 Current Potential CCF 16 34 Current Potential Nick Jones and Darren Scriven, branch manager and Benchmarx management trainee, Travis Perkins Milford Haven, 150 discussing the Brand Bullseye 26 2007 saw the continued growth and development of the Keyline Current Potential Travis Perkins brand, adding a further 22 branches to the The most significant event for Keyline in 2007 was the network, and growing its organic sales ahead of the market promotion of Arthur Davidson, after 8 highly successful Wickes and other major competitors.
The concept and adoption of years in charge and the appointment of Phil Atkinson as his 143 the Brand Bullseye work very much assisted us to move the replacement as managing director, who joined the Group businesses forward, by raising the bar on customer service, from the construction industry.
192 product quality and availability and a greater focus on clear Keyline continued its steady and positive growth by Current Potential and consistent pricing to our regular customers.
adding a further 3 new branches, and increased its market Working closely with our enlarged marketing team, we share by rolling out the Brand Bullseye concept.
We Tile Giant undertook some good work to improve our share of the continued to deepen its focus and specialisation by 249 total customer spend and gained good sales growth by introducing a new civils range to 10 trial branches, and targeting low or non-trading customer accounts.
In addition boosted sales by a more targeted approach to specialist we widened revenue sources by developing 13 specialist civils contractors.
51 Current Potential timber branches, and stepped up our focus on brick sales by opening a further 2 brick centres.
City Plumbing Supplies With the promotion of Joe Mescall to divisional Trading within the plumbing and heating markets remained chairman of the Travis Perkins brand, I was delighted to buoyant, although competitive.
Our City Plumbing Supplies appoint Phil Gransden as managing director in the South business expanded its branch network in the year by East.
Phil has 28 years service with the Group, and is adding a total of 12 new outlets.
Like other businesses another fine example of our excellent management within the Group, CPS improved compliance with Bullseye trainees programme.
level performance standards by communicating key 32 C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:07 Page 33 service level concepts and introduced a monthly bonus scheme to all staff.
Other sales initiatives centered around increasing market share amongst smaller local installers by establishing local branch databases and allocating them to our staff to target these customer accounts.
We improved the quality and performance of our showroom managers through a performance grading system and a new performance bonus scheme, and we increased sales by implementing a mandated stock range to improve product availability for our customers.
CCF A very busy year within this vibrant and exciting business.
Strong organic growth was supported by strong network expansion, through the addition of 2 new brownfield operations and the acquisitions of 2 sizable businesses, Passmores 5 branches and SLBM 2 branches.
We won some good new business amongst the larger contractors with supplier negotiated arrangements, and have continued to invest in strengthening our senior sales executive teams.
After nearly 4 years in the role Andrew Harrison has done an outstanding job within CCF by almost doubling the size of the business whilst delivering sector leading returns on sales, he has deservedly been promoted within the Group to drive the expansion and development of Benchmarx.
We expect to announce his replacement and new managing director for CCF shortly.
Benchmarx Benchmarx our specialist kitchen and joinery business which is dedicated to trade customers only, which opened its first branch in July 2006, had a positive year of network expansion and growth.
By the end of 2007 we were trading from 25 locations in London and the South East.
Andrew Harrison was appointed managing director of this business in 2007 and has set about expanding our customer base, and strengthening our overall product offering.
Like other businesses within the Group, Benchmarx also developed and introduced their Brand Bullseye, which will assist in the continued growth of this business.
Tool Hire Although tool hire is not a discreet business unit in its own right, it does have a managing director in the form of Richard Dey and its own management team.
Under Richards control, over the last 2 years we have enjoyed strong and positive growth, in both new outlets, but more importantly strong organic sales improvements from the existing estate.
We have now opened our national repair centre in Northampton, which has reduced the number of items under repair by 60% and has assisted us in significantly increasing our tool utilisation.
Wickes 2007 proved another positive year for the Wickes business.
Terry Howard, warehouse supervisor, 33 Benchmarx Watford, picking a kitchen order ready for delivery to a customers home CHIEF OPERA TING OFFICERS REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 17:16 Page 34 Under Jeremy Birds stewardship we have very much put CUSTOMER SERVICE sales and customer service at the top of the agenda, and The Travis Perkins group has increasingly become more as a result we have enjoyed good growth in market share customer focused in recent years, and to this end has via both a strong organic sales increase, and good new introduced the Brand Bullseye into every business unit store openings.
During the year we opened 9 new stores, within the Group.
This has been a huge undertaking as it and developed 2 new mezzanines, increasing our net encompasses all the elements of our customer experience, selling space by 250,000 sq ft. range availability, price and service.
We as a team restructured our marketing and commercial The Brand Bullseye has engaged all colleagues activities.
Working in conjunction with our operational throughout the Group to become even more customer teams proved very effective in driving key elements of focused.
It states all the customer service elements we are business, such as product availability and product striving to achieve throughout each company within the promotions.
These together with strong gains from our Group.
To ensure day-to-day continuous improvement for Sarah ODonnell, THE BRAND assistant tool hire manager, Travis Perkins Central Birmingham, BULLSEYE HAS GEOGRAPHICAL GEOGRAPHICAL preparing a wacker SALES SALES plate for hire ENGAGED ALL MERCHANTING RETAIL COLLEAGUES THROUGHOUT THE GROUP TO BECOME EVEN MORE CUSTOMER FOCUSED 31.4% 26.1% 25.3% 13.2% 17% 25.5% 21.5% 40% % of total 2007 annual sales % of total 2007 annual sales space optimisation programme drove an increase in the the customer, all the Bullseye elements are incorporated important ratio of sales per square foot.
into our best practice programme, which has received a A lot of really positive things were achieved in the year, significant amount of investment over the past 2 years.
however becoming the Verdict DIY Retailer of the year I take great pride in the delivery of the Brand Bullseye 2007, was a great testimony to all the colleagues that we across all businesses within the Group.
It is the foundation employ within the Wickes business, and to the continued for our customer relations policy which has been widely journey that we are on to put our customer at the centre of communicated throughout the Group and forms the basis all our thoughts and the activities that we undertake.
Due to the wide customer base Travis Wickes e-commence web business www.
co. uk Perkins serves, each company has the customer service enjoyed excellent sales growth in the year and is now policy embedded into the Bullseye, and has a variety of producing a positive profit contribution.
measurements attached to each element of it.
Our current KRA Key Result Area system of reporting is Tile Giant split into financial and non-financial scores.
These scores, Tile Giant is our specialist tile retailer that with its 29 which determine how well we are performing against our stores joined the Group in November 2007.
We believe pre-set targets, enable the businesses to prioritise that under the leadership of Mo Iqbal we have an resource in order to increase the gap between themselves opportunity to develop a sizeable and profitable national and the competition.
All KRA measurements are highly network of outlets.
We have already identified positive visible to everybody within each of our businesses, synergies that will arise from Tile Giant being part of our especially those customer facing colleagues.
Group, and we look forward to growing the chain over the As an added element to the KRA system, Travis Perkins coming years.
has a well defined customer satisfaction programme for all 34 C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 16:08 Page 35 the major businesses within the Group.
This reports on branding is not a key purchasing criteria for our customers.
robust customer satisfaction feedback to ensure our Our own label mantra is to provide own label products, internal programmes are hitting the Bullseye target.
This whether for our trade or retail businesses, to the same programme would not be valid unless we also measured standard or better than the leading brand quality.
ourselves on a yearly basis against our competitors.
This is Our commercial teams continued to work on the Wickes the most testing of all measurements and is undertaken by synergy program to good effect, achieving further value an independent research agency.
All the Bullseye elements from the transaction in the form of buying gains.
We have are measured and reported on by our most exacting commenced the gradual process of introducing more stakeholder the customer.
category management techniques into our trade teams, and As our working practices have become even more are undertaking trials to prove the returns from using some customer focused, it is important for group reporting of the retail merchanting approaches gained from our mechanisms on customer issues and customer satisfaction Wickes colleagues.
Terry Howard, warehouse supervisor, Benchmarx Watford, unloading engineered oak flooring criteria to reflect this.
To this end we will be launching an QUALITY ASSURANCE QA AND updated KRA system, to reflect all the Bullseye elements, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY including customer service criteria, in 2008.
Quality has always been of the utmost importance to the all our customers and therefore must be a priority for the SUPPLIERS AND GLOBAL SOURCING Travis Perkins group.
Following the more recent mergers Having increased our supplier base through the acquisition of and acquisitions, the quality functions throughout the Group Wickes and others in 2005, we have steadily been have been centralised under the stewardship of Robin rationalising numbers and establishing partnerships where Proctor and our group supply chain function.
we can develop long-term collaborative relationships with The prime responsibility of the our Quality Assurance selected suppliers.
We seek relationships with those suppliers Department is to protect the group brands.
This is broken who hold market leading positions and who have the scale to down into two key objectives to ensure that Travis Perkins both develop and bring to market new products and who group companies: either currently supply or have the potential to supply all our Meet their sourcing and supply chain CSR objectives, by brands.
This policy of rationalisation meant that in 2007 the only using suppliers who have acceptable control of their top 25 suppliers represented 47% of our cost of goods sold.
manufacturing, environmental, ethical and health and We also made significant progress on our global safety processes: sourcing programme appointing both an Asian based Only stock product that conforms to national and trading agency, and entering a trading arrangement with a international regulations, is safe, fit-for-purpose and leading freight forwarding company.
Within our global conforms to required specifications.
sourcing work, we seek to establish a direct line of supply To give some idea of the challenge this gives, at the end of with producers in low cost economies for products where 2007 some 350 primary suppliers were supplying 35 CHIEF OPERA TING OFFICERS REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:07 Page 36 approximately 120,000 product lines.
Within this supplier departments key objectives in an evolving supply chain as base there are 1,182 known manufacturing sites of own suppliers strive to balance product cost with quality, safety brand label products of which 470 are based in Asia.
order to fully support the Asian supplier base, in addition to the group QA offices in the Trade and Retail divisions, we SUPPLY CHAIN have established a group QA Asia office based in 2007 has seen a real step change in our product availability Shenzhen, southern China.
to customers, as we have continued to develop our supply 2007 has been a year of consolidation with a change to chain processes and our tools to enable supply chain to the QA structure in both the UK and Asia, redefined meet the businesses Brand Bullseye objectives.
We have internal processes, a more robust product approval and further strengthened our supply chain team, their focus product technical data structure and the issue of a supplier being to improve availability, increase stock turn, reduce quality manual.
The supplier quality manual, which is supply costs and support the growth plans of our brands.
All of our business Brand Bullseyes have product availability as a core strand in meeting customer needs.
During 2007 the focus has been on delivering best in class availability of our key products, most importantly ensuring project quantities are available at all times to our customers.
The resulting change is significant and noticeable not only physically through improved branch merchandising, but more importantly in our customers reactions and the resulting sales increase.
This best practice project will continue to develop in 2008 and beyond, availability being a key measure of success for our businesses.
As our businesses grow, so to do the demands on our supply operations capacity.
In 2007 our timber milling operations started the process of consolidation from four sites to three, which will improve costs, while increasing capacity and resilience, through better use of our assets.
Our primary distribution network will see investment in 2008 that will create capacity for current product volume growth, while providing the space to support our global sourcing plans and further centralisation of appropriate products.
Control of stock through supporting systems creates a great opportunity not only to increase stock turn but also to release selling space in our branches.
The first stage of this Travis Perkins St Albans, a new work saw our merchant warehouse reduce stock by 20% brownfield site, shortly before it designed to help reduce the number of product failures, whilst improving service to branches.
opened in 2008 details our requirements and thus enables us to levy charges for non-compliance.
CONCLUSION In addition, we introduced a primary supplier assessment After an excellent year, all parts of the business are in programme at the start of the year, which is proving to be excellent shape.
We are well positioned to achieve further successful in that it is identifying areas for improvement growth and market share gains in 2008 and beyond.
whilst receiving a very positive reaction from those I would like to place on record my sincere thanks to all our suppliers assessed.
employees and colleagues without whom our success In order to protect our brands we have a programme of would not have been possible.
During the year we have carried out QA visits to all existing identified high risk manufacturing sites that had not previously been assessed by QA.
In January 2007 there were 250 non-high risk supplier sites that we had not visited, by the end of the year this was J. P. Carter down to 21 and it will soon be zero.
We also undertook Chief Operating Officer 8,500 product quality control checks compared to only 3 March 2008 2,500 in 2006.
Our objectives for 2008 include further reductions in product failure and further risk reduction through improved reporting and a strategic supplier development programme.
This is in addition to maintaining the 36 CHIEF OPERA TING OFFICERS REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:07 Page 37 Chris Williams loading insulation materials ready for delivery to a customer of CCF Birmingham 37 C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R
