qxp 20 3 08 12:07 Page 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2007 INTRODUCTION Left: Our new At the beginning of 2007 we predicted that our markets Benchmarx branch in Watford would grow well in the first half, but would begin to slow in the second half.
In the event, a stronger than expected housing market propelled our market growth for a longer period, and at a stronger rate.
However, the well documented turbulence in credit markets and its associated impact on housing and consumer confidence has impacted lead indicators and we are now seeing, in the early part of 2008, a sharper than expected slowing of growth rates, albeit from a higher than expected level of market activity.
Against this background, the Group achieved strong results in 2007 and accelerated its branch expansion programme.
All of our businesses performed well, with both our trade and retail divisions growing their like-for-like sales ahead of market growth rates.
This superior performance underlines the attractiveness to customers of our 7 trade and retail brands, and enabled us to simultaneously grow market share and expand our operating margin.
In addition to the 75 branches we added to our existing brands during the year, we entered a new market via the acquisition of Tile Giant, further implementing our strategy of entering adjacent channels for the distribution of building materials.
Our expansion programme continues to Geoff Cooper deliver returns ahead of those predicted at the time of up by 18.7% to 261m 2006: 220m, and adjusted Chief Executive each branch opening and generates good incremental earnings per share up by 17.6% to 149.8 pence 2006: returns for shareholders.
The revenue increase of 11.9% comprised 8.1% from like-for-like sales, with network expansion PERFORMANCE accounting for the remaining 3.8%.
The Group delivered record financial results in 2007, with Adjusted group operating margin grew by 28 basis points ADJUSTED good progress from the three key elements of our strategy to 10.04% 2006: 9.76% note 5c.
This increase was - driving like-for-like performance, expanding our branch achieved primarily through improved management of our GROUP network and entering adjacent channels.
operations and scale benefits, which produced lower overhead OPERATING As a result of the change in the corporation tax rate ratios, operating efficiencies and further labour productivity announced by the Government, the group tax charge for gains.
Competitive conditions in both trade and retail markets, MARGIN GREW BY 2007 has been reduced by an exceptional deferred tax as always, remained tough and gross margins reduced 28 BASIS POINTS credit of 4.2m.
During 2006 the Group made an slightly.
In addition, the accelerated rate of expansion and exceptional property profit of 11.6m which realised launch of Benchmarx, our trade kitchen and joinery specialist, TO 10.04% 31.5m of cash receipts.
Throughout this annual report, had a dilutive effect on operating margin.
New branches consistent with our approach last year, the term adjusted typically take 6 to 18 months to reach breakeven and we has been used to signify that the effects of the 2007 and estimate that without this dilutive effect the operating margin 2006 exceptional items have been excluded from the would have been higher by some 20 basis points.
The 63 basis point improvement in the Groups operating For 2007, the Groups revenue was up by 11.9% to cost ratio was achieved despite our investing to strengthen 3,187m 2006: 2,849m, with adjusted profit before tax central functions to support further growth.
Both our 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:06 Page 13 Richie Nichol, shop floor supervisor, Ray Halls, driver, City Plumbing Mark Evans, branch manager, Robert Blades, sales co-ordinator, Wickes Newcastle, cutting timber Supplies Ipswich, loading bathroom Travis Perkins Central Birmingham, CCF Birmingham, taking one of for a customer showroom products on to a van, checking product availability many sales calls the branch ready for delivery receives each day RETAIL PRODUCTIVITY PER EMPLOYEE 200k 100k 0k 2005 2006 2007 MERCHANDISING PRODUCTIVITY PER EMPLOYEE 200k 100k 0k 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 divisions maintained tight controls over headcount and indicators of customer preference and differentiation.
other costs, and operating cost ratios improved in both Trade division, sales grew by 12.7% with sales from new divisions by 38 basis points in trade and 93 basis points branch openings contributing 3.5% and increased like-forin retail.
Whilst colleague numbers inevitably increased as like sales per working day contributing 9.2%.
This the Group expanded, productivity improved in both comprised 5.8% of price inflation and a 3.4% growth in divisions, with merchanting recording a 6.1% gain and volume.
Both general and specialist merchanting performed retailing ahead by 3.4%.
Furthermore, on five year lease well, with like-for-like sales per working day up by 9.2% in reviews settled in 2007, the average annual rate of rental general merchanting and 8.7% in specialist merchanting.
increase experienced continued to decline, supporting our We estimate that our trade businesses are growing their view that rental inflation is easing.
sales some 2% ahead of market growth rates, with market Our trade division continued its customer segmentation share gains coming equally from national competitors and work and implemented a series of marketing initiatives, independent merchant competitors.
Adjusted operating succeeding in increasing our share of spend by existing margin in the trade division was up by 24 basis points to customers and converting an increased proportion of 11.43% note 5c, with a strong performance from the Travis prospective customers.
This, combined with significant Perkins general merchanting brand - operating margin for operational improvements in product range, stock the specialist distribution businesses was lower, reflecting availability and yard service levels enabled the division to more competitive conditions in the dry lining and insulation increase like-for-like sales ahead of market growth rates.
market following the acquisition of a large proportion of the Our surveys indicate an improved perception of our trade independent sector over the last two years.
branches as a preferred source of building materials.
We Our retail business also achieved good revenue intend to continue our work to stretch our lead on these performance, growing both like-for-like and total market 13 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 77266 Pre.
These gains were mainly attributable to a continued expansion is continuing to deliver the benefits of scale.
This programme of range enhancements, new store sales approach means we are well positioned to maintain our initiatives and improved store standards.
This work was leadership, pursuing our aim of having the best business recognised in two recent surveys of customers by with the best operating margin, in each of our markets.
independent retail research organisations, which showed Gross margins in both divisions continued to benefit from Wickes to be the UKs favourite home improvement retailer our work to rationalise our supplier base, increase our a remarkable result given that we are geographically global sourcing volumes and complete the few remaining under-represented.
In addition we successfully launched the projects from the Wickes synergy programme.
However, Wickes transactional website with an investment these gains were eroded by margin pressure as considerably less than for an average Wickes store.
The competitors fought to retain business against our improved website achieved breakeven within 12 months and is now service.
Although prices of some commodity products in the regularly amongst the top 10 stores for weekly takings.
retail market were reduced by one or two competitors, our WE INVESTED 174M ON CAPITAL AND ACQUISITION EXPENDITURE Like-for-like sales for the full year of Wickes core volumes of these products grew in line with or above products were up by 7.5% and on the same basis market trend and gross margins decreased only slightly.
showroom sales fell by 4.6%, reflecting continued Overall, various pricing and promotional initiatives by retail weakness in consumers willingness to spend on so-called competitors appears not to have impacted Wickes sales.
Overall like-for-like sales in Wickes We invested 174m including 8m of loan notes were up 5.5% with 3.8% price inflation and a 1.7% volume issued on capital and acquisition expenditure, including increase.
Network expansion, which has been stepped up 138m including loan notes spent on expanding the over the last year, added 4.3% to Wickes sales which in Group.
We also loaned 76m to the Groups Employee total increased by 9.8%.
Wickes increased its market share Share Ownership Trust to purchase shares to satisfy over the year, with most recently available data showing an outstanding share option grants.
Tight control of our daily increase in share of the market of major DIY retailers of 1% cash position meant we reported only marginally higher from a year earlier.
Retail operating margin increased by 28 interest costs despite these investments and increasingly basis points to 6.67% note 5c for 2007, driven mainly by difficult conditions in the debt capital markets and a economies of scale following the volume gains from likeresultant rise in the costs of short-term debt.
Interest cover for-like sales growth and space expansion.
improved to 5.4 times EBIT note 10.
The timing of certain We are pleased to report that we continue to maintain cash flows at the year end meant that the final balance our position of having the highest operating margin in both sheet showed an increase in net debt to 941m and merchant and retail sectors where we operate.
Our focus 28m of out flows impacted by timing issues mainly on driving stronger performance from our like-for-like related to payments to Wickes suppliers on the 53rd estate has delivered increased profits, and is making us a Monday of the year which reversed within 7 days of the tougher competitor in each market in which we trade.
14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 18:48 Page 15 MARKETS environmental performance, and introduce new products to For 2007, we believe the trade market showed strong market in response to planning and end-user demands, growth continuing the recovery started in 2006, whilst the avoiding peripheral products of questionable environmental retail market showed a slight improvement.
Market value in value like domestic windmills and, over time, improve 2007 was boosted by stronger than expected inflation in this contribution.
building materials, particularly in timber.
Although the rate The new government formed in the middle of the year of inflation has moderated, we are still seeing inflation in re-confirmed that expansion of housing and investment in the range of 2% to 4% across our group, as manufacturers the built environment remains a high priority.
Commercial seek to pass on continued increases in energy and mineral opportunities from the 2012 Olympics and Thames Gateway costs.
Without expansion of our global sourcing regeneration programmes are now beginning to materialise programme, inflation, particularly in retail, would be in to firm orders, albeit at a low level.
With good activity levels for customers in 2007, improvement market, the increasing trend of employing self Gavin Ferguson and Tom Aitken, yard supervisor and yard sales assistant, Travis Perkins Loanhead, loading a lorry prior to delivery.
It is the first Travis Perkins merchant park, with CCF and City Plumbing Supplies sharing the site we were able to establish new prices in our markets employed tradesmen to do work that previously constituted relatively quickly.
With markets slowing, this may prove a DIY project is benefiting our retail business given its strong more difficult in 2008. market share amongst this customer group.
As a result of 2007 has seen yet further government and commercial these market factors, we continue to expect good long-term initiatives that strengthen the prospects for good long-term growth in our core markets.
The supply and unit value of building Conversion of these factors into current spending materials is set to grow over the long term as a result of depends on short-term conditions, principally consumer structural factors such as the rate of household formation.
confidence and activity levels in the housing market.
The This growth will benefit further from new regulatory well documented turbulence in financial markets and its requirements resulting from a number of major reviews, associated impact on the economy, consumers and the including studies of the impact of climate change, housing construction sector has impacted lead indicators and we needs and the state of our housing stock.
Building products are now seeing, in the early part of 2008, a sharper than provided through our ten businesses and seven brands the expected slowing of growth rates, albeit from a higher Travis Perkins brand operating as four geographically than expected level of market activity.
This slowing of defined businesses have a major contribution to managing growth has followed the trends experienced previously, climate change issues.
From a benchmarking exercise where our markets tend to react to a change in housing, conducted by us in 2007, we estimate that the gross consumer and infrastructure conditions after a lag of margin earned by us from products having a beneficial around 6 months.
environmental impact, less the cost of complying with new Our early sales performance in 2008 reflects this, with environmental management and reporting is just over like-for-like sales in our merchanting division for the first 30m.
We aim to continue our work to increase our own two months ahead by 5.7% and like-for-like sales for the 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:06 Page 16 first 8 weeks trading in retail up by 0.9%.
These rates are 26 in the retail division.
All this has been achieved whilst some 3% to 4% below the performance we achieved in the maintaining our investment criteria for all new branches fourth quarter of 2007. and businesses and, through a post-investment audit There has been much debate about whether current reported to the board, ensuring that the programme of conditions mirror those seen in the downturn in our markets network expansion continues to achieve results in excess of in 2005, or whether they bear a closer relationship to the those predicted at the time the projects were approved.
As more severe period of slow down in 1991 to 1993.
Whilst the highest margin operator in the market, and with market no comparison will produce a perfect match, thus far in the conditions likely to exert more pressure on weaker current year our analysis of lead indicators currently operators, in 2008 we expect to see an increased supply of suggests activity levels may bear a greater resemblance to opportunities to expand that will meet our demanding 2005.
Both in early 2005 and early 2008, the outlook for financial criteria.
the housing market looked poor, whilst other sources of building material consumption notably the repair and Wickes maintenance sector looked more positive.
In 1991 - The Wickes business has been fully integrated, its 1993, a generally worse economic background, with higher management strengthened, its offer improved and its store interest rates and unemployment, meant demand formats overhauled and made more productive.
weakened across the spectrum of construction and repair Total retail selling space at Wickes expanded by 6% as a activity.
Our customers report currently a shortening of result of launching 6 new stores and re-configuring 3 orders on hand, particularly for new housing construction existing stores.
At 31 December, we traded from 185 work.
The outlook for repair, maintenance and improvement stores.
The re-configuration programme, which involves work, where we enjoy proportionately higher margins, reclaiming storage space for use as selling area and the remains relatively more firm.
Forecasts are, of course, construction of mezzanine floors in stores with very high dynamic and the outlook beyond the next few months sales densities, will continue in 2008. remains uncertain.
These developments, together with a strong pipeline of opportunities to introduce Wickes in new catchments, DEVELOPMENT means that we anticipate the strongest space expansion for In the last 24 months, we have broadened our revenue Wickes in 2008 since the business was acquired in 2005. sources, entering the trade kitchen and joinery market and The recent Wickes store openings, following our purchase the retail tiling market.
The contribution to profits from of 7 stores from a home improvement retailer operating in expansion of our well established brands is benefiting from a different segment of the market in 2007, are all trading the increased rate of openings started in 2006, whilst our ahead of expectations, benefiting from the fresh approach newer brands are expected to provide greater potential for to the Wickes offer developed in late 2006.
The strength of expansion in later years.
the Wickes offer means that its expansion programme is In 2007 our priorities were to improve the customer offer delivering good incremental returns despite volumes in the in each of our businesses, implementing our best practice home improvement market not yet recovering to the levels programmes, to take like-for-like market share and to seen in 2004. strengthen our central functions to build a strong platform Outside Great Britain, we signed an agreement to Dan Smart, yard supervisor, for growth.
develop a franchised chain of Wickes stores in The Republic Keyline Exeter, restocking We stepped up the rate of branch network expansion, of Ireland.
Launch plans are being prepared, with the aim of planed timber adding new branches to each brand and adding a further opening the first store in the second half of 2008. new business stream to our portfolio.
As at the end of the year our network comprised 1,125 branches, and in the Travis Perkins first two months of the year has grown further to 1,166 We added a net 22 sites during the year to the Travis branches, with 15 branches added in our trade division and Perkins branch network and traded from 581 sites at the year end.
Around 44% of new sites were brownfields, which have relatively attractive returns GROWING AND IMPROVING THE BRANCH NETWORK compared to acquisitions.
We undertook major branch 31 Dec Acquisition Brownfield Consolidation 31 Dec Net 2008 3 Mar refurbishments at a number of branches including Kings 2006 2007 movement 2008 to date Lynn Mill, Wigan, Wisbech and Cheam in 2007 and have 3 projects planned for 2008.
We also added a TP 559 13 10 1 581 13 594 gross 10 toolhire outlets taking our total to 164 in the Keyline 76 2 1 - 79 1 80 Group.
Travis Perkins is our largest and most prominent CCF 25 7 2 - 34 - 34 brand, and excellent customer goodwill means that new City Plumbing 177 1 11 - 189 - 189 and expanded branches continue to acquire new Wickes 179 - 9 3 185 7 192 business quickly and have excellent payback and cash Benchmarx 6 - 19 - 25 1 26 Tile Giant - 29 3 - 32 19 51 flow characteristics.
Despite having a network approaching 600 branches, we 1,022 52 55 4 1,125 41 1,166 still have significant expansion potential for the Travis 16 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:06 Page 17 Angie Brown, showroom assistant, Wickes Newcastle, discussing the purchase of a new bathroom 17 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:06 Page 18 Perkins brand in the UK.
Our relatively greater efficiency CCF and operating margin means we have good opportunities to Our dry-lining ceilings and insulation specialist had a very acquire selectively good merchanting businesses and busy year, with 2 new brownfield openings and the create value.
As markets become more challenging in acquisition of a further 7 new branches via the acquisition 2008, we expect more owners to sell.
With many owners of 2 excellent regional operators.
The CCF business considering a sale following the changes to the capital operated from 34 branches at the end of the year.
CCFs gains tax regime, we are looking for a softening in goodwill market is now very largely held in the hands of major prices in the coming months.
national or international distributors who have recently invested in the sector, and with only few suppliers of the Keyline key products, competitive conditions remained very tight.
Our heavyside merchant added 3 branches to its network, Despite this, CCFs one-stop shop offer to contractors finishing the year with 79 branches.
In 2006 we introduced means it enjoys a good reputation and new branches deliver good returns.
We aim to expand the CCF network further in 2008.
Benchmarx Following the good start made by Benchmarx in 2006, our specialist kitchen and joinery business for the trade, a further 19 branches were added in 2007, bringing the total trading up to 25.
Benchmarx serves a market with attractive returns and growth characteristics and our offer has scored very highly with our new customers in this market.
We plan further branch openings in 2008 and we are committed to creating a business with a significant market share in this sector.
Tile Giant We entered the retail tile market in November via the acquisition of Tile Giant, a 29 store chain operating mainly in the Midlands.
With existing revenues from tile products approaching 45m Nicole Arkley completing the stock through our existing brands, we are merchandising at the new Travis programmes to increase focus on both depth and breadth confident of achieving good synergies through improved Perkins branch in St. Albans, a task which took just five days of specialist stock range and to concentrate on major civil buying terms.
The tile market is expected to show good engineering customers.
This programme continued in growth and we see an excellent opportunity to win a 2007, with 7 branches being re-configured to take new significant market share and help consolidate the sector, ranges.
Following the appointment of a new managing under the leadership of Mo Iqbal, Tile Giants managing director with a background in construction this work will director.
In early March we acquired Tile Magic, a 17 continue in 2008 and further new branches will be added branch chain operating in London and the South East, and where market opportunities arise.
we have a good pipeline of further opportunities to expand.
City Plumbing Supplies ORGANISATIONAL CAPABILITIES Following its steady recovery from trading difficulties To support our continued growth, the operations side of the experience in 2005, City Plumbing Supplies re-started its Group, led by John Carter our Chief Operating Officer, was expansion programme in 2007 and 12 new branches were re-organised in 2007 with the creation of positions for three added, bringing the total trading at the end of the year to divisional chairmen for three collections of businesses 189.
All remaining branches not yet converted were refitted general merchanting, specialist merchanting, and retailing.
to the City Plumbing format from their predecessor brand.
Joe Mescall, an outstanding managing director for two of Our business is aimed at serving the needs of contractors our general merchanting businesses during a distinguished and jobbing plumbers in the repair and refurbishment sector 35 year career with the Group became divisional chairman of the market, for whom branch location is crucial.
We plan for general merchanting.
Arthur Davidson, having managed to continue our rate of expansion in 2008, reflecting our Keyline with distinction since its acquisition in 1999 a confidence in this business.
period during which Keylines profits more than doubled - 18 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:06 Page 19 Jason Simpson, branch manager, Daniel Beresford, branch manager, Mick Banner, yard foreman, Travis Tim Halls, branch manager, City CCF Birmingham, reviewing online Travis Perkins St. Albans, arranging Perkins Central Birmingham, Plumbing Supplies Ipswich, KRA performance indicators for to meet a potential customer to locating stock with forklift confirming stock orders online before the branch discuss his requirements they are transmitted to the supplier and chaired CCF since 2004, became divisional chairman for specialist merchanting.
Arthur and Joe join Jeremy Bird, who in only his first year as managing director for Wickes has seen the brand catapulted to the top of customers lists for their favourite home improvement retailer and overseen a 23% rise in profits, before property gains, as members of the Groups Executive Committee.
Following these appointments, Andrew Harrison, who, as managing director established CCF as a new business in the Group whilst its profits doubled over his four years in that role, moved to become managing director of Benchmarx, to help us exploit the significant opportunity presented by our entry in to this market.
Also, Phil Gransden was promoted within the board of our Travis Perkins business in the South East to become its managing Ian Evans, driver, Travis Perkins Milford director.
Phil is a further example of the Haven, preparing a load before Groups excellent management trainee scheme providing increasing their skills and raising their engagement with the delivering it to the customer in one of the branchs vehicles future senior managers.
Whilst many of the Groups business.
This work has included increased investment in operating managers including our Chief Operating Officer, long service awards, new training and development John Carter, come from this source, balance of experience programmes, both for technical and management skills, is maintained by sourcing around a third of our senior introduction of a buy-as-you-earn share scheme and better managers from outside the Group.
In 2008, Phil Atkinson, communication of our save-as-you-earn scheme.
Our OUR RETAIL with a background in the construction sector, joined as colleague retention has steadily improved over this period - in BUSINESS ALSO managing director of Keyline.
Phils sector experience will the trade division it is now up by some 13% over two years enable him to lead effectively Keylines initiative to position to 80%, and it is up by 1.4% in the retail division to 75.5%.
ACHIEVED GOOD itself as the supplier of choice in heavy building materials to A baseline score for employee engagement was REVENUE major civil engineering contractors and ground workers.
established in 2007 from a survey conducted anonymously Turnover of senior managers is relatively low, and not many by an independent research company, and we aim to PERFORMANCE, leave the Group.
When, occasionally they do, we wish them steadily improve colleague engagement and performance GROWING BOTH well in their careers and look forward to welcoming them measured from surveys repeated annually.
As a start, we back to our business in the not too distant future.
introduced in January 2008 a new incentive scheme for all LIKE-FOR-LIKE AND Our analysis in 2005 identified that performance of our colleagues not already members of an existing scheme.
TOTAL MARKET branches, central functions and businesses is significantly Unlike many schemes, this rewards colleagues for correlated with the stability of our teams of colleagues.
achieving standards of performance partly linked to SHARE Expertly led by Carol Kavanagh, our Group Human Resources customer expectations rather than being linked only to an Director, we have over the last two years introduced a series annual budget or year-on-year financial performance.
of measures aimed at improving the retention of colleagues, To further support colleagues a new group health and 19 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:06 Page 20 James Craig, yard sales assistant, Travis Perkins Milford Haven, selecting timber from the large quantity stored on site 20 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 21:13 Page 21 safety department was established in 2006 with a brief to almost unbelievably in this age we have given 4 awards improve our performance significantly, building on the for 45 years of service, 11 awards for 40 years of service excellent work carried out in each of the businesses.
In its and 33 awards for 35 years of service.
Congratulations to first full year, the department was responsible for all of them.
overhauling our policies, procedures and reporting systems, and more investment was injected in to health and safety ENVIRONMENT training.
A new health and safety committee of the Plc Summary Board has been established to oversee further progress.
Its Last year may well be remembered as the year when inaugural meeting took place in December 2007 and for concerns over human impact on climate change were the first time a separate report from the Committee will be widely recognised.
Policy instruments, internationally and in included in the Annual Report in 2008.
In 2007 we saw a the UK, to constrain this effect began to take shape and the continuation of the favourable trends in accident frequency indirect emissions of carbon and other greenhouse gases experienced over the previous two years, however, the from corporate activity, other than just energy use, came severity of accidents has increased, increasing our resolve into the spotlight.
We hold environmental concerns as a key priority and Having established or strengthened several of our central have significantly increased the time and effort devoted to functions in 2006, these functions began to implement raising the profile of these issues amongst colleagues and work to improve our front line delivery to customers.
This to the understanding of the impact of our operations.
This included building two new data centres in Northampton to has included initiating work to establish better reporting run both trade and retail division systems and provide procedures and systems and the establishment of realistic internal disaster recovery capacity.
We develop most of our targets.
At this stage of development of our environmental software ourselves, which external benchmarking shows activities we believe this approach is a necessary gives us better business effectiveness and lower cost ratios pre-cursor to driving better performance in our than competitors.
The 14m implementation project for environmental performance indicators in years to come.
these data centres was completed on time and on budget We continue to hold to 4 key objectives to reduce our by our very experienced IT managers and teams, led by environmental impact: reduce our carbon emissions: Frank Smith, our Group IT director.
reduce waste to landfill: increase certified timber Although we kept tight control of costs in 2007, we purchases: and prevent local pollution.
These are the core continued to invest in our colleagues.
We recruited 63 areas where we can have the largest effect.
We have people into our industry leading two-year trade made significant improvements in the control environment management trainee programme in our 2006 intake, and for activities to deliver these objectives.
Our ISO 14001 82% of the original 2005 intake graduating in 2007 were certified environmental management system now covers all appointed to a range of roles across our businesses and activities and operations of the Group, having incorporated support functions.
We will build on the success of this Wickes in 2007. programme by extending it into the retail division.
At We continue to engage with colleagues, customers, Wickes, we implemented a Master programme to suppliers, regulators, government and civil society, enhance the skills of store colleagues at all levels.
This recognising that a partnership and broad consensus Wayne Bowditch, assistant branch includes the opportunity to gain a BTEC DIY retail between those within the supply chain and other manager, Tile Giant Macclesfield, qualification that is unique to Wickes.
There are over 3,500 stakeholders is required to achieve genuine progress.
discussing a customers requirements store colleagues that have obtained this qualification.
We In 2007 we: also continued our actions to improve staff turnover, since Inaugurated an Environment Week for colleagues to good performance here correlates closely with good better share plans and promote simple solutions: branch or store performance.
Commenced partnership programmes with customers, OUR ISO 14001 The demands of running the business at an impressive suppliers, the Environment Agency, Waste and Resources CERTIFIED and higher level of performance in 2007 have been borne Action Programme WRAP, and the Energy Saving Trust by all our colleagues.
In 2007 I continued my programme of and Carbon Trust.
The partnerships are looking at better ENVIRONMENTAL regular visits to our branches, stores, distribution centres regulation, better waste management and at whole life MANAGEMENT and offices and by the end of the year had seen over 300 carbon costing and reduction: sites.
I also continued to meet with all colleagues in our Signed agreements with Government departments aimed SYSTEM NOW support functions over a rolling series of communication and at reducing the impact of plastic bags, working towards COVERS ALL feedback sessions during the year.
I am continually zero carbon homes and phasing out sales of nonimpressed by the dedication and commitment of my efficient lighting: ACTIVITIES AND colleagues and would like, on behalf of the Board, to Continued our membership and participation in OPERATIONS OF express my thanks to all of them for all their hard work.
It environmental forums at the United Kingdom Forest and has been my pleasure this year to have the opportunity to Trade Network UKFTN, British Retail Consortium and THE GROUP meet and thank many of our colleagues who are benefiting Construction Products Association: from our new long service award scheme, which also gives Presented and expressed our views to 3 external award winners the opportunity to receive shares.
This year conference audiences of suppliers and customers: 21 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:07 Page 22 Produced reports on our environmental performance for To develop our approach to building carbon management Business in the Community, UKFTN, and the Carbon we have installed some micro generating equipment and Disclosure Project.
will expect to see significantly more capacity being installed In addition, the Board approved plans for the establishment in the estate this year.
of an environmental advisory panel made up of stakeholder We sold our first solar thermal panel in 2007 and exited representatives.
The panel will be inaugurated in 2008, and the year with a full range of renewable energy and micro we hope that it will help us shape our longer term generating technologies available nationwide.
We also environmental strategy to ensure that we remain a opened our first Renewable Energy Centre where potential responsible business.
installers can gain familiarity with solar thermal systems, ground source heat pumps, air source heat pumps and Environmental Improvement Plan biomass boilers.
This is an important emerging market, since As before, we asked Lloyds Register of Quality Assurance to it encapsulates how co-ordinated action through the supply review this section of our annual report to validate both the statements we make and the figures we report against our key performance indicators.
A copy of their statement can CO2 EMISSIONS 2005-2007 be found in the environment section of the Travis Perkins TRANSPORT TRANSPORT TRANSPORT web site www.
24.8 24.2 26.6 40 Performance trends can be seen by examining the graphs included in this section of the report, which combine 20 information from across the business.
The final indicators are a combination of measured, averaged and estimated ENERGY ENERGY ENERGY 14.6 15.2 13.1 35.5 performance.
Wherever possible we have used standardised 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 TARGET data collection and reporting techniques and continue to Tonnes CO2 per m group sales work to improve the accuracy of the measures reported.
We will always have to estimate a small percentage of our data, due to our continual process of acquisition.
WASTE TONNAGE 2005-2007 The measure of our reduced impact from our retail RECYCLING RECYCLING RECYCLING 3.0 0.9 1.5 plastic bags, comes in part from our signing of a joint 20 Department of Environment Food and Rural Affairs and WRAP agreement to act in Feb 2007.
5 In November 2007 Tile Giant joined the Group.
Since we WASTE WASTE WASTE had no control over its environmental performance over 19.8 17.8 18.9 18.7 0 most of the year: no figures from this business are included 2005 2006 2007 2008 TARGET in this report.
Tonnes waste per m yard sales and core sales excluding sales from direct deliveries Carbon Management Travis Perkins takes its We calculate carbon dioxide emissions from the generation environmental responsibilities of energy used for lighting, heating and product processing.
chain can deliver superior environmental performance.
seriously, recycling packaging where possible We also calculate carbon dioxide emissions from burning Our target for 2008 remains a 10% reduction in carbon fossil fuels to distribute from central warehousing to intensity on 2005 levels which we aim to achieve with the branch, from branch to customer as well as for business initiatives we have already in place.
Our combined carbon dioxide emissions in targeting a 20% reduction in intensity, supported by a 2007 were 115,128 tonnes.
Our emissions per million building programme for lower lifetime carbon emissions, pounds of turnover are up slightly, however, this reflects our and further reviews of distribution efficiencies and our programmes to bring more branch and customer deliveries heating arrangements in retail.
Elsewhere we have made good progress, such as purchasing more than 220 new more efficient euro IV and Waste Management euro V compliant trucks for branch to customer We more than doubled the amount of waste we separated distribution and almost a 2% efficiency gain in miles per for recycling in 2007.
In total we disposed of 52,861 litre travelled on warehouse to branch distribution.
In tonnes of waste, of which 7,178 tonnes 13.5% was addition a petrol electric hybrid car is an option now recycled.
This significant improvement in recycling available to some company car drivers.
packaging materials means that we are succeeding at The 10% drop from 2005 levels of emissions from energy reducing waste to landfill, which has dropped by almost 7% consumption at Travis Perkins sites used per million pounds on 2005.
However, the reduction in waste to landfill is not of sales is encouraging.
This reduction has been achieved by reflected in data for the total waste arising per million reducing artificial light levels and relying more on daylight in pounds of yard and core sales.
Indeed, even though we are many of our retail buildings and through the procurement of recycling more, this data indicates we are creating more 100% renewable electricity since October 2007. waste per million pounds of sales now than 2 years ago - 22 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:07 Page 23 although this is largely as a result of improved management over next steps.
Tile Giant and all other Travis Perkins group control and reporting of waste.
To further increase control businesses are registered under both packaging and WEEE over waste in 2008 we will increase the visibility of waste regulations for 2008. arising and promote waste reduction by targeting different tiers of the business to encourage greater local Timber Management accountability.
Every branch in the Travis Perkins group that sells timber Our targets for 2008 of a 10% decrease in intensity of operates with externally certified chain of custody controls.
waste from 2005 levels with 25% being recycled will be This traceability on certified timber products is now being achieved by giving visibility of performance to site demanded by more customers.
In 2007 we estimate that we managers, a zero waste to landfill strategy with our waste purchased 76% certified material and have some way to go management partners and planned initiatives for centralised to achieve 85% by the end of this year.
According to Defra, collection for recycling of a larger number of waste streams.
the growth in forest areas getting certified is slowing.
It Our new Tile Giant store at Macclesfield, one of fifty one specialist tile outlets in the Group Reducing the amount of packaging we give to our seems likely that we will have to increase our share of the customers is also a form of waste management.
We have certified material available to achieve our targets.
The limited achieved a good start with this in 2007 and reduced our current supply is further constrained by availability within tonnage of plastic bags given away by 28% compared to different timber producing regions and for different types of 2006.
In 2008 we will continue to engage in the debate on timber and forest products.
Our experience is that certified local restrictions and taxes for plastic bag use.
However, it is hardwoods for plywood and joinery are still in short supply.
our intention to provide clearer guidance to our product Our target for 2008 remains to buy 85% by value of our suppliers and eliminate the worst examples of over packed timber and forest products from certified, well managed products.
We will target this improvement and provide measures of success in future reports and business reviews.
TIMBER CERTIFICATION When we purchased Tile Giant they were not registered 2005-2007 with the Environment Agency, as required by The Producer 100% OTHER OTHER OTHER Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations or CERTIFIED CERTIFIED CERTIFIED SCHEMES SCHEMES SCHEMES with The Department for Business Enterprise and 28% 24% 34% Regulatory Reform DBERR as required by the Waste 50% Electrical Electronic Equipment WEEE Regulations, and they remained unregistered at the end of the year.
We have informed both the Environment Agency and DBERR of the FSC FSC FSC 36% 49% 48% 85% 0% non registration and DBERR have indicated that they are 2005 2006 2007 2008 TARGET satisfied with Tile Giants registration from 2008 onwards.
Timber purchased We are currently in discussion with the Environment Agency Note: 2005 data excludes Wickes timber figures 23 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:07 Page 24 David Smith, branch manager, Paul Suthon, transport scheduler, Mark Shepherd, assistant branch Bill Binnion, distribution manager, Travis Perkins Loanhead, providing CCF Birmingham, ensuring the manager, Travis Perkins Milford CCF Birmingham, updating product advice to a customer delivery timetable meets the needs Haven, liaising with the head office computerised stock records of our customers payroll department Chris Williams, warehouse assistant, CCF Birmingham, confirming the quantity of insulation in stock 24 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 20:43 Page 25 forests and we will continue to work with our supply chain 620,000 for charities, including our three nationally partners towards this end.
In addition, we are planning to supported charities, NCH the Childrens Charity, Mencap review our chain of custody arrangements to make sure and its sister charity ENABLE Scotland and Leukaemia they remain fit for our expanding business.
This total raised includes direct donations by the Group amounting to 153,656 2006: 203,996, Pollution Prevention including a one off donation of 136,113 arising from our In 2007 over 20 of our sites were flooded either by flash exceptional property transaction and donations by our floods or by rising water levels.
In all of these cases solids, colleagues through our payroll giving scheme amounting to and in many cases oils, from drainage interceptors will have 40,254 2006: 33,585.
This has been the first full year left our sites and entered controlled waters.
These incidents with our new nominated charities and fundraising has are not counted against our KPI as we do not believe they included many new nationally organised events including a resulted from any failures on our part.
family fun day and two charity balls hosted by Wickes and Under normal operating conditions we had 3 spillages of Travis Perkins, which together raised more than 140,000. either diesel or paint over the year.
In each case the Our 1,000 projects in 1,000 places in 1,000 days quantity was small and the established emergency community initiative, launched in 2006 to celebrate the procedures were used.
There were no investigations by the milestone of launching our 1,000th branch, continues to Environment Agency.
go from strength to strength.
More than 150 projects have We informed the Environment Agency about a single fly now been completed nationwide and this builds on the tipping incident involving asbestos before removing it under work already carried out by many of our branches and correct permits.
stores to support local community projects.
Notable We were asked by two local authorities to clean up litter projects include bridge building for a scout camp site, and prevent light pollution.
In each case we complied fully fitting out and painting a rape and incest crisis centre, with their requests and the authorities will be taking no building raised beds and decking for a primary school fruit further action.
and vegetable garden, and many more.
This programme We are pleased to report that we had no prosecutions for continues to engage our people, suppliers and customers any environmental offences in 2007. to work with local community leaders and deliver something of real value to the communities we serve.
Complaints In 2007, we continued our rationalised sports In 2007 we recorded 10 environmental complaints.
The sponsorship activity by concentrating on our role as main Vehicle Certification Agency VCA, the regulator for some sponsor of Northampton Saints rugby club and involving our aspects of the Waste Electrical Electronic Equipment Northamptonshire colleagues in joint community activities.
Regulations, complained to us over potential non-compliance with the consumer information INVESTOR RELATIONS requirements in these regulations.
The VCA were satisfied Responsibility for communications with shareholders and with our response and are not pursing the matter.
Six debt providers rests directly with me and Paul Hampden complaints arose from neighbours about traffic, noise, Smith, our Finance Director, with support and advice from visual intrusion or lighting.
Three complaints arose from the Companys brokers.
We do not employ an investor Sinead McGing, administrator, customers and the general public, dissatisfied with relations manager.
The Company Chairman and Senior Benchmarx Watford, checking aspects of delivery of our environmental policy.
Independent Director attend a selection of investor supplier invoices to goods received records Our target for 2008 is still to reduce the number of meetings throughout the year, and the Company Chairman incidents and complaints to zero.
attends the meetings to present the Groups interim and preliminary results to buy-side and sell-side analysts.
In ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS addition to these meetings, at least one day per month is AND COMPLAINTS 2005-2007 set aside to meet investors and analysts.
20 This regular programme is supplemented with two trips COMPLAINTS per year to meet with investors in The Republic of Ireland, COMPLAINTS 10 10 Canada and the USA, and we host a visit for analysts to a COMPLAINTS 10 selection of our businesses once per year.
5 In 2007 we conducted over 100 meetings with investors.
5 5 6 As part of each exercise to present interim and preliminary INCIDENTS INCIDENTS INCIDENTS 0 2005 2006 2007 results, we typically meet shareholders representing around 54% of the shares outstanding.
This includes a family COMMUNITY RELATIONS lunch where we meet with representatives of the Travis, With an extensive national presence of over 1,100 places Perkins and Fisher families.
across Great Britain where we do business, and deeply Feedback about investors views is gathered after our embedded relationships in local communities, we actively scheduled meetings by brokers and occasionally by the manage our community relations and our charitable activities.
Company Chairman, and steps are taken to enhance Our business raised more than 885,000 2006: investor communication in response.
qxp 19 3 08 23:07 Page 26 STRATEGIC PRIORITY PROGRESS IN 2007 Continue to drive scale benefits: Acquisition growth 107 new branches added, including: and brownfield 52 acquisitions: expansion 52 brownfields, including 6 Wickes: 1 closure: 6 merchant relocations: 3 Wickes Extra conversions: 2 Wickes mezzanines built: Developed 13 specialist timber centres.
Expansion programme continues to exceed projected returns: Detailed catchment modelling updated, confirming and extending expansion potential.
Adaptable trading Like-for-like sales growth consistently ahead of market levels: in merchanting Increased share of wallet through customer segmentation work and targeted marketing campaigns: Converted more key customer accounts using targeted selling campaigns: Introduced new, bespoke trade customer discounting structures: Launched new initiatives to capture more trade cash customers.
Refresh our service Deployed a range of new sales and service initiatives in retail, gaining over offer and gain 1% of market share: market share Completed a retail space optimisation programme to introduce enhanced product ranges: Introduced a new managed installation service for retail in place of sub-contractors: Successfully completed trials of a new service package for trade stores.
Review our Gained market share through introduction of new mandated ranges category presence in trade outlets: in each outlet Established a new group supply chain function: Improved product availability through improved supply chain techniques: Reduced costs of outside storage through improved capacity planning routines: Shane Taylor, yard assistant, Overhauled quality assurance processes and significantly increased supplier Travis Perkins Central Birmingham, assembling a inspections.
customers order ready for collection Develop or acquire specialist Continued roll-out of Benchmarx, serving specialist joiners: channels in selected categories Entered the retail tiling market through the acquisition of Tile Giant.
Seek further gross Out-performed on our synergy and buying gain targets, achieving 92m of margin expansion benefits in 2007 against an initial synergy target of 35m: Introduced a new civils range to Keyline branches: Re-designed and re-launched our private label ranges in trade branches: Established a new tool hire business unit, boosting like-for-like tool hire sales and margin by over 20%: Established specialist brick centres to reduce the use of brick distributors.
Drive further productivity Achieved productivity gains of 6.1% in trade and 3.4% in retail: and returns on capital Further reduced transport costs ratio through the training of back-up drivers in selected branches: Through better procurement practices and management of property costs, reduced overheads: Continued our value maximisation property projects, including relocations: Disposed of interests in 3 properties, realising 0.8m cash and 6.4m profits.
26 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:07 Page 27 STRATEGY project was approved.
We have observed that some In last years report to shareholders, we set out the business for sale are suffering a pressure on profitability, progress we have made on our strategic priorities.
These and we look for goodwill prices to respond.
priorities were set and selected to pursue our strategy of We continued our programme of improving capital out-performing our markets on a like-for-like basis, efficiency through more active management of our property expanding our networks and entering adjacent channels for portfolio.
From our extensive list of active projects in the supply of building materials.
This year, we have shown progress we exchanged contracts or completed on 3 the further progress we have made on each of the priorities projects, generating profits of 6.4m and cash of 0.8m described in last years report.
Martin Meech, our Group The next phase of implementing our strategy will see a Property Director has been responsible for creating this continuation of this work, aimed at meeting the performance programme of work and financial benefits following his standards set in each business Bullseye, particularly in arrival in 2005, and is pursuing projects on a further 26 properties.
The proportion of freehold or long leasehold properties remained broadly level at 33%, and the net book value of property increased by 50m to 242m as we reinvested cash David Cowell, customer from this programme in service assistant, Travis Perkins Central Birmingham, properties that we judge to have replenishing stock after a attractive growth characteristics.
busy days trading Our strategy is designed to ensure that we put in place the best businesses as viewed by customers, and deliver a best in class operating margin.
Our established businesses achieve this already, and here we aim to stretch our lead by taking further market share, achieving increasing operating efficiency.
Our newer businesses are on a path to achieving a best in class operating margin, and we expect further progress in 2008 and beyond.
With good long-term growth service, range development, customised pricing for prospects in our markets, proven expansion plans and the tradesmen and product availability.
We will support this work best businesses in each segment, we are confident of with new technology, using our proven software strategy continuing to deliver excellent returns for shareholders.
based mainly on bespoke developments.
Projects will include an enhancement to our balanced scorecard branch reporting system to include better customer service metrics, new margin management routines and increased online order capture facilities.
In 2007 we seamlessly transferred G. I. Cooper our data centre to a new facility based at our head office Chief Executive campus in Northampton, and established our own disaster 3 March 2008 recovery capability through the inauguration of a second mirror data centre a few miles away.
These facilities provide a robust and scaleable base to support new technology developments and future branch network expansion.
We will also continue our accelerated branch expansion programme, subject to the availability of brownfield sites and good quality businesses being for sale at the right price.
Our programme of branch network expansion, through our annual post-investment audit, continues to deliver returns above the levels predicted at the time each 27 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR
