8 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE STATEMENT We cOntinUed tO mAKe gOOd prOgreSS thrOUghOUt 2007 With the develOpment Of OUr StrAtegy tO bUild A grOWing mUlti-plAtfOrm mediA bUSineSS, viA the lAUnch And AcqUiSitiOn Of neW prOdUctS, the implementAtiOn Of neW technOlOgy plAtfOrmS And fUll cOlOUr preSSeS.
Within the following Chairman and Chief Executive We continued to make good progress throughout 2007 with the 1 Statement, all figures are presented on an adjusted basis.
development of our strategy to build a growing multi-platform media business, via the launch and acquisition of new products and OVERVIEW services, the implementation of new technology platforms and new trinity mirror experienced an encouraging but volatile advertising full colour presses along with improved processes.
environment for much of 2007 which was an improvement to the market conditions seen during 2005 and 2006. the generally the group has benefited from a strong focus on portfolio development healthier market conditions contributed to a strong performance for across print and digital, enabling us to deepen our penetration in the year.
group revenues from the retained businesses increased by core markets and to build our revenues and market positions in key 15.1 million to 932.3 million including 8.9 million of revenue from high growth areas such as digital recruitment.
We have a strong service contracts with the disposed businesses.
group operating track record of innovation and during the year we continued to profits from the retained businesses increased by 6.4 million to develop and launch a number of print and digital products across 186.1 million.
Whilst margins have been under pressure for the the group.
in addition, in may we acquired totallylegal.
com limited, past two years due to the challenging advertising environment, our owner of totallylegal.
com, which further continued focus on efficiencies has enabled the operating margin strengthens our presence in the digital recruitment market.
this for our retained businesses to increase by 0.4% to 20.0%.
activity has been further supplemented through the acquisition of the career engineer limited in January 2008. in november, we On a statutory basis group revenues fell by 3.2% to 971.3 million acquired globespan media limited which enhances our position in with operating profit improving from a loss of 62.4 million in 2006 to print and digital overseas property advertising.
digital revenues now a profit of 29.4 million in 2007. represent 3.7% of total revenues and 6.7% of advertising revenues of our retained businesses.
We have delivered 13 million of net cost savings and are on track to deliver the targeted 20 million annualised cost savings by the end going forward, our aim is to increase substantially digital revenues of 2008. group operating costs for the retained businesses increased as a proportion of total group revenues.
We aim to achieve this by by 7.7 million to 746.5 million, driven by the costs associated with both launch and acquisition and have increased our resources in the service contracts for the disposed businesses and operating order to accelerate progress.
in October of 2007 we appointed a costs of the acquired businesses.
excluding these, costs for the managing director of new ventures and Strategy to lead our activities retained businesses have actually fallen, despite the impact of in this key area of strategic development.
the board remains confident in the strong cash flow and the longterm growth potential of our business and therefore proposes to maintain the final dividend at 15.5 pence per share.
1 Adjusted items relate to discontinued operations, non-recurring items, the amortisation of intangible assets, the retranslation of foreign currency borrowings, the impact of fair value changes on derivative financial instruments, the impact of the change in tax rate on the opening deferred tax position and the reduction in the charge for share-based payments relating to 2004 and 2005 which was recognised in 2006, unless otherwise stated.
A reconciliation between the adjusted and the statutory numbers is provided in note 41 on page 94.
2 Adjusted excluding businesses disposed in 2006 and 2007.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007 9 1 2 Revenue 1.6% 932.3m 2006 917.2m PUBlISHING ACTIVITIES Regionals Our regionals division achieved a good performance despite the volatile advertising market.
A strong focus on product development saw the business making good progress in building a multi-platform regional media business of scale, with a raft of launches across print and digital plus a number of new events and exhibitions.
We have also reinvigorated a number of our key regional print titles through a programme of brand development.
the disposal of the seven sub-regions in the South has created a better focused, more resilient portfolio of regional newspapers complemented by strong local and national digital assets.
performance from our regional digital activities was particularly strong with revenues up 33.3% and audience figures up 27.8% on 2006. this reflects the successful launch of a number of companion websites to our print titles, the launch of micro sites serving local communities and sites serving key local advertising markets in recruitment, property and motors plus growth coming from our acquired digital businesses.
the continuing implementation of our technology-led operating model across the majority of our publishing systems enabled a further reduction in costs and better positions the business to develop new revenue opportunities.
going forward our regionals division will focus on maximising the performance of our core print portfolio while achieving rapid progress in building the business across attractive media platforms.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007 10 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE STATEMENT Nationals DISPOSAlS Our nationals division achieved a strong profit performance against a the completion of our disposals process saw the sale of seven background of an extremely competitive circulation environment.
sub-regions in the South and the Sports division.
Offers for our Across the national popular newspaper market, circulations continued businesses in the midlands and the two remaining sub-regions in to decline year-on-year.
Whilst competitors distorted their underlying the South, did not reflect the boards assessment of their true value, sales, through heavy marketing activity and cover price discounting, we their earnings potential or the strong positions they hold in continued to publish our national titles at their full cover prices, which their particular markets.
therefore the board decided to retain we continue to believe is the right strategy for maximising value.
these businesses and focus on their growth and development.
these businesses are now benefiting from being fully integrated Our UK nationals division delivered a strong performance with into the groups technology-led operating model, which will both revenue and operating profit growth.
the daily mirror saw an enable them to focus on new revenue-earning opportunities and improving circulation trend achieving its lowest decline in five years.
the Sunday mirror substantially outperformed the market across the year, also showing circulation growth in September, October and following the completion of the disposals process we agreed november.
Our three UK national titles together have a higher to contribute 108 million to the groups defined benefit pension proportion of full rate sales within their audited Abc circulations than schemes and commenced a share buy-back programme to return any of their major competitors.
175 million of capital to shareholders.
We believe this course of action maintains an efficient yet prudent capital structure for the the Scottish nationals division also delivered a strong performance, group with headroom for continued investment in new products and with significant growth in both revenue and operating profit despite services and to pursue appropriate acquisition opportunities.
intense competitive activity and widespread cover price discounting in the market.
A strong focus on portfolio development saw the launch of recordpm as a free afternoon commuter edition of the daily record in Aberdeen, dundee, edinburgh and glasgow extending the reach and coverage of the daily record brand across Scotland.
October saw the launch of business7, a simultaneous launch across print and digital, deepening our penetration of this core geography but targeting a new younger business audience which is highly attractive to advertisers.
during the year we focused on developing our national titles digital presence resulting in growth in audience figures and revenues up by 56% on 2006.
With investment in key publishing systems, new colour printing presses and expanding digital activities, our nationals division is well positioned for the future.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007 11 1 2 Operating profit 3.6% 186.1m 2006 179.7m CAPITAl EXPENDITURE OUTlOOK the investment programme in new presses for our national We experienced an improving advertising environment in 2007. newspapers continued throughout the year.
Our Scottish nationals there was month by month volatility and we expect this to continue have published full colour newspapers for most of the year and in to be a feature of 2008. december new colour presses became available for the daily mirror and Sunday mirror, making them the first national tabloids throughout the uncertain economic outlook for the UK together with the the UK with the ability to print in full colour.
this was achieved ahead volatility, has contributed to a weak start to 2008 in the advertising of schedule and ahead of our competitors.
We will complete the market.
We expect advertising revenues to fall by around 3% for repressing in early 2008.
A major benefit of this investment is that no January and february.
further significant capital expenditure will be required for our national newspapers for a number of years, with full repressing not expected Although we are cautious about trading in 2008, the board anticipates for at least a further 20 years.
a satisfactory performance for the year given the continued implementation of the groups strategy, ongoing focus on cost during 2008 we will complete the investment in our nationals control and the groups resilient cash flows.
presses and that required for the 12 year printing contract for the independent and independent on Sunday which was secured during Sir Ian Gibson cbe 2007. in addition we will continue with our programme of developing chairman and modernising our publishing operations across multi-media platforms through investment in our key it systems.
Sly Bailey chief executive EMPlOYEES throughout 2007, our staff across all areas of the business have faced the challenges in our markets with determination, enthusiasm and tenacity.
On behalf of the board, we thank them for their commitment and hard work.
BOARD CHANGES Kathleen Odonovan joined the board as a non-executive director on 11 may 2007 and was appointed chairman of the Audit committee.
gary hoffman was appointed Senior independent director on 10 may 2007.
On 2 January 2008, Jane lighting, chief executive of five, joined the board as a non-executive director.
Sir Angus grossart, peter birch and david ross all retired from the board at the groups Annual general meeting on 10 may 2007.
All three brought an extensive level of experience to the board and we thank them all for their support and guidance over the years.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007
