28 CORPORATE RESPONSIBIlITY CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT HEAlTH AND SAFETY CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT HEAlTH AND SAFETY 2007 was a year of steady and pleasing progress.
the company received its third consecutive rOSpA Occupational health and Safety gold Award.
this unprecedented achievement for for the third year running our much improved health and safety the group could not have been reached without the hard work systems and record were recognised through the award of the and commitment of our staff, whose continuing efforts are very rOSpA Occupational health and Safety gold Award.
later in this report show that we maintained our record in 2007. this not only reflects our continued drive to reduce accidents, the company participates in the rOSpA annual awards scheme but is a credit to all our managers and staff.
health and safety is because it provides an independent assessment of our health and everybodys responsibility and the improvements that we have seen safety performance against national standards.
it also provides an opportunity to recognise and encourage good performance could only have been achieved by the whole team playing a part.
the company considers the scheme to be an important part of our overall strategy for the management i am very pleased that we met all but one of the targets we set for our environmental performance, including those covering of health and safety.
sustainable forestry, energy consumption and environmental management systems.
i am particularly pleased with the attainment it has been another very challenging year with further developments of iSO 14001 status by our press site at Oldham.
this now becomes in health and safety legislation, refurbishment of some office premises the benchmark for all of our sites.
As i said in last years statement, and ongoing investment in new production equipment at our printing we do not set the bar on these targets at a deliberately low level but plants.
Our staff have risen to these challenges and worked hard to view them as only being worthwhile if they involve a stretch.
With this maintain good health and safety standards.
Although it was not in mind, we have continued to experience difficulties in measuring possible to substantially reduce the number of riddOr reporting accurately the recycling of general waste across all of our sites.
of injuries, diseases and dangerous Occurrences regulations 1995 nevertheless, the information that we do have indicates that we are reportable accidents in 2007 it is encouraging to see that the also very close to achieving our 25% recycling target.
significant gains made in previous years have been maintained.
the board remains committed to making further improvements to health We have also become more actively involved with the media and safety in the year ahead.
cSr forum and fully endorse its work on media literacy.
2007 health and safety initiatives the board continues to be kept informed of important health and safety developments through the Secretary and group legal director.
important health and safety initiatives last year included: The revision and updating of general policy statements with respect to health and safety, reflecting a commitment from the company to establish management systems that comply with OhSAS 18001, Sly Bailey an internationally recognised occupational health and safety chief executive management systems specification: Health and safety input to office redevelopment projects in middlesbrough and cardiff, as well as a successful project to complete the installation of new presses and ancillary equipment at the Watford printing plant: Making arrangements with the British Printing Industries Federation bpif for them to independently audit compliance with health and safety legislation at our printing plants, with recommendations for improvement if necessary: The preparation and updating of numerous building fire safety risk assessments to ensure compliance with the regulatory reform fire Safety Order 2005 and parallel legislation in other parts of the UK: Health and safety awareness training for managers and other members of staff, where appropriate.
building Services and health and Safety managers attended training courses covering important changes affecting construction safety: A trial to identify the benefits of fitting reversing aids to commercial vans used for newspaper delivery.
this resulted in a decision to include bumper mounted reversing sensors alarms in the purchase specification for all new delivery vans: and Through the Group Health and Safety Risk Management forum new and revised health and safety policies and procedures were introduced covering: Asbestos engineering and construction safety Selection and control of contractors Work with display screen equipment home working.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBIlITY HEAlTH AND SAFETY Group health and safety statistics Health and safety enforcement activity the tables below provide statistics for occupational health and safety there were nine visits to our premises by health and safety in 2007, with a comparison with the previous year.
the number of enforcement officers in 2007, compared to thirteen in the previous riddOr reportable accidents appears to have levelled off with only year.
these visits were generally routine inspections to verify that the a marginal improvement.
this is not unexpected given the substantial company was complying with statutory requirements and in all gains of recent years and our challenge is to try and address this cases where the need for follow up action was identified it was promptly taken.
An improvement notice was issued at the Oldham in the year ahead.
Accident frequency rates have raised slightly following business unit disposals that have contributed to a fall in printing plant requiring the company to implement water system total days worked.
All necessary actions were completed within the specified time.
Health and safety performance indicators Future health and safety initiatives 2007 2006 to achieve our goal of continuing improvement in health and safety next year the group intends to: fatalities riddOr major injuries 5 5 Work towards achieving full compliance with OHSAS 18001 at the riddOr over 3 day injuries 24 26 printing plant in Watford, treating this as a pilot exercise before riddOr occupational ill attempting to obtain external accreditation elsewhere: health diseases conditions Continue with a programme of independent regulatory compliance riddOr dangerous occurrences audits at each of the company printing plants, through the british total number of accidents 371 445 printing industries federation.
Office premises will continue to be riddOr events frequency rate 0.21 0.18 audited internally by in-house health and safety specialists: Support the HSE Printing Industry Advisory Committee in their All accidents frequency rate 2.70 2.65 efforts to improve health and safety in the printing industry through Total days lost accidents and direct involvement and by contributing to their nationwide safety occupational ill health 611 0.04 % 823 0.04 % campaigns aimed at reducing injuries caused by slips, trips, falls frequency rate number of accidents per 100,000 hours worked.
and work-related upper limb disorders: f igure in brackets represents the percentage of total days worked by all employees in the group.
Consult and involve staff, through Health and Safety Committees, on initiatives to reduce risk of injury caused by slips, trips, falls and Breakdown of accidents by type of event manual lifting and handling.
these are consistently the most 2007 2007 2006 2006 RIDDOR All riddOr All common riddOr reportable events leading to absence from work accidents accidents accidents accidents in the group: and % % % % Implement new and revised policies and procedures covering the following topics: Slips and falls same level 24.0 20.5 34.0 23.5 Stress lifting and handling mobile phones of materials 20.5 11.5 28.0 12.0 driving at work contact with machinery 6.5 5.0 3.5 5.0 fire safety falls from a height 7.0 3.5 3.5 2.5 lone working.
Stepping on or striking fixed object 14.0 17.5 3.5 13.0 Struck by moving vehicle 3.5 1.5 7.0 2.5 contact with sharp abrasive material 3.5 19.0 16.0 Struck by flying or falling object 7.0 4.0 7.0 6.5 contact with hazardous substance 2.5 2.5 contact with hot material substance 3.0 2.0 Object collapsing or overturning 0.5 Use of hand tools 3.0 2.0 contact with electricity 1.0 Others 14.0 8.0 13.5 12.0 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 All percentages rounded to the nearest half decimal point.
emphasis will continue to be placed next year on measures to reduce accidents caused by slips, trips and falls and others associated with manual handling.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007
