Directors report: Business review Chief Executives review Tullows strategy is based on having a long-term view and continually investing to increase the value of our business, a strategy which delivered again for us in 2007.
Remarkable exploration success The highlight of 2007 for Tullow was undoubtedly the remarkable success of the Groups exploration and appraisal programmes in Ghana and Uganda.
In Ghana, the discovery of the Jubilee field and subsequent success with the Odum exploration well provide a high degree of confidence that Tullow may have uncovered not just a world-class discovery but also a material new oil province in which we are the dominant acreage holder.
Our priority for 2008 will be to rapidly appraise the Jubilee field while also testing some of the more significant regional exploration prospects.
In parallel, the field partnership is working on plans for a phased development of the field targeting first oil for 2010.
A high-capability semi-submersible drilling rig has been contracted for a period of up to five years.
In Uganda, Tullow achieved continued success in the Lake Albert Rift Basin and in 2007 invested over US$100 million 50 million in exploration and appraisal activities.
The knowledge and confidence generated by our success to date has led to a plan to invest over US$200 million 100 million in 2008.
The programme, which will include onshore and offshore drilling, seismic surveys and the anticipated sanction of an EPS, has the potential to more than double Tullows worldwide reserve base and make a material long-term contribution to Ugandas economy.
Strong portfolio performance Tullow achieved record production levels during 2007, with average daily output of 73,100 boepd, 13% ahead of 2006 levels.
This production generated operating cashflow before working capital movements of 474 million, enabling the rapid progress of development, exploration and appraisal programmes across our core areas, particularly in Africa which accounted for 64% of capital investment during the year.
8 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Oil prices Gas prices Oil price Tullow realised oil prices Gas price Tullow realised gas prices 100 100 80 75 50 46 p therm 60 US$63 bbl 37 p therm US$52 bbl 40 25 US$43 bbl 34 p therm 23 p therm US$34 bbl 20 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2004 2005 2006 2007 Solid financial results pricing represents an excellent backdrop a region with many potential geological While underlying operational performance to Tullows ongoing investment plans.
similarities to areas of North Africa and operating cash generation were at where Tullow has existing acreage, As is the nature of our industry, record levels, reported financial results skills and expertise.
unfortunately not all our activities in have been impacted by lower UK gas 2007 were successful.
The failure of the prices, higher depreciation charges, South Asia Kudu8 well in Namibia was a particular Production from Tullows Asian business increased exploration write-offs and disappointment for both Tullow and its higher interest charges.
In particular, has increased steadily in recent years partners.
Although more technical work is and this trend continued in 2007 with the disappointing performance of the required to determine the most appropriate production from the Chachar field in Chinguetti field in Mauritania has led future work programme, we remain Pakistan commencing in August.
In to a write-down of 27 million in carrying committed to Kudu and are optimistic Bangladesh, the Bangora field continued value, while unsuccessful drilling on the regarding the potential for additional to perform strongly and further expansion Kudu-8 well in Namibia and in the UK gas to be discovered in the region.
of facilities and production is planned for North Sea accounts for over 50% of our 2008, while in India, steady progress was total exploration write-off for the year.
Europe made on prospect selection for a In the UK, production of 171 mmscfd Our balance sheet remains strong and as multi-well 2008 drilling campaign in the during 2007 was similar to 2006 levels.
a signal of our confidence in the business onshore CB-ON 1 Block.
During 2008, In the first half of the year a comparatively we have increased our final dividend of Tullow will seek to develop its Asian mild winter, combined with perceived 2007 to 4.0 pence per share, an increase business through high impact exploration, oversupply in the UK gas market, led of almost 15% on the 2006 level.
ongoing production optimisation, potential to a period of uncertainty and weak new ventures and portfolio management.
Post year-end portfolio management gas pricing.
initiatives will result in a very significant Against this background, Tullows continual South America profit on disposal, which will be recognised portfolio analysis and overriding focus on Tullow added a new region of operations in our 2008 results, following the anticipated value over volume of production was clearly to its business in 2007 when a portfolio completion of the relevant transactions.
evident as we redirected investment in of South American licences was secured favour of more attractive international through the completion of the acquisition Africa exploration and appraisal programmes.
South America Our African business continues to grow has many geological and operational rapidly and highlights for the year, along However, as the year progressed and similarities to Tullows existing interests with the exploration success in Ghana longer-term UK gas pricing trends in West Africa, with the additional benefit and Uganda, include the exceptional became more favourable and visible, that large areas remain underexplored.
performance of the Okume development Tullow committed funds to selected During 2007 Tullow participated in and Ceiba field in Equatorial Guinea, development and high-graded exploration exploration campaigns in Suriname where gross production recently exceeded projects.
An excellent example of this and French Guiana, as well as considering 115,000 bopd, and the ongoing successful strategy was the Kelvin project, which a number of new venture opportunities, infill drilling programme in the came on stream in October 2007.
In most notably in Trinidad and Tobago.
The strength addition to exhibiting strong production The principal activity planned for 2008 is of these assets more than offsets the performance during the peak winter the drilling of the high impact Matamata impact of disappointing production and period, the Kelvin facilities represent a prospect in French Guiana, scheduled reserve performance from the Chinguetti valuable hub for future gas developments for the third quarter, 2008. field in Mauritania.
in the Caister Murdoch System CMS area, including the adjacent K4 and Increased production allowed Tullow nearby Harrison discoveries.
to benefit from the ongoing positive trend in global oil pricing.
We believe During 2007, we built on our existing that the underlying fundamentals position in the UK Southern North Sea by remain strong and that oil prices will extending Tullows presence into the less remain over US$80 bbl for the remainder explored Dutch sector.
In February 2007 of the decade at least.
While costs have Tullow was awarded an operated interest also increased in recent years, strong in three large blocks offshore Portugal, Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9 US$ bbl p therm Directors report: Business review Chief Executives review continued Adapting to a changing industry retain maximum flexibility to allocate Operating safely and with sensitivity capital between exploration and appraisal, The continued strength of oil and gas While we always aim for a perfect safety pricing over recent years has changed and production and development based on record, the nature and operational available funds and quality of opportunities.
the dynamics of our business and the complexity of oil and gas activities means nature of competition within our industry.
that this is not always possible to achieve.
A clear example of this strategy in action Larger companies are increasingly cash was our decision in late 2007 to consider During 2007 Tullow personnel and rich and opportunity constrained, while the disposal of Tullows interest in the contractors performed over five million attractive industry fundamentals have MBoundi field in Congo Brazzaville.
This hours of operated activity spread across also introduced new participants who are field, in which Tullow had a non-operated eight countries.
These operations varied competing for acquisition opportunities 11% interest, accounted for approximately from 2D and 3D seismic surveys and and new ventures.
In parallel, governments 5% of 2007 sales volumes.
Recent drilling in Uganda to offshore seismic are increasingly proposing licence terms transactions had led to a consolidation surveys in French Guiana and significant which limit the potential for return or of ownership and the transfer of production and development drilling discourage active investment in exploration.
operatorship to a major oil company, operations on the Schooner and Ketch These issues, combined with the intense thereby limiting Tullows ability to fields in the UK Southern North Sea.
contribute to decision making or demand for rigs and related oilfield future plans.
The sale of this asset services and equipment mean that In 2007, our Lost Time Incident Frequency in early 2008 for a total consideration effective capital management and Rate LTIFR increased to 1.95 per million of US$435 million 218 million has allocation are critical.
This is a provided Tullow with significant financial disappointing outcome and is in contrast We continually review our portfolio in flexibility and will enable us to accelerate to the steady improvements in safety relation to Tullows long-term strategy.
investment across the remainder of our performance we have reported in Our aim is to build strong positions in business.
Further portfolio management recent years.
In response to this we core areas, to consolidate niche positions is under active consideration as we have launched a number of training, in developing regions and to dispose of seek to reallocate our financial and assets of lower materiality or where we process and operational initiatives on human resources to assets that are cannot achieve meaningful operational more material to the Groups a groupwide basis with the objective of influence or control.
We also seek to long-term business.
Our vision To be the leading global exploration and production company and to deliver at least 20% TSR each year.
Our strategy Balancing our risks Tullow has a long-term perspective on developing the Maintaining our growth will bring with it new challenges business.
We plan in advance, execute consistently, review and risks, which we recognise are an everyday part of doing regularly and maintain financial and operational flexibility.
To continue to prosper, Tullow is required on We have a clear strategy to deliver sustainable profitable an ongoing basis to identify, manage and mitigate a wide growth into the future, which includes: range of strategic, operational, financial and external risks.
Capital and resource allocation to high value opportunities: Many of these risks are addressed through the application of Tullows strategy.
However, external Maintaining a balanced portfolio of quality assets: risks such as those arising from the actions of our Targeted production and reserves and resources growth: competitors, the volatile nature of oil and gas pricing Development growth through new ventures, licensing and the diverse nature and location of operations are and acquisitions: not directly controllable.
Organic growth through infill programmes: Wherever possible we seek to mitigate our exposure to these risks through a clear framework of Strong social and community support delivering management and communications that incorporates sustainable development: financial, production and exploration management, Working safely and minimising impacts on the three key strategic pillars of the Group.
the environment: This year we have outlined in more detail the risks Having a structure with open dialogue across that Tullow faces and what we do to manage and the Group: and mitigate these on pages 44 and 45 of this report.
Ongoing investment in people and organisational structure.
10 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Total shareholder return TSR 66% 262.2 2007 66 2007 has been an exceptional 2006 49 year contributing to a three 2005 79 year TSR of 443% To enhance our planning and risk a transformational step change to our assessment we monitor near misses business.
Our key priorities for 2008 are and high potential incidents as well as to appraise both the Jubilee field in Ghana participating in industry surveys and forums.
and the Lake Albert Rift Basin in Uganda, while also testing the significant exploration Ultimately, however, strong safety potential of our wider portfolio.
Tullow performance is facilitated by clear has the capability to grow substantially leadership and individual responsibility in the coming years and I believe we have and every single Tullow employee and the strategy, the assets and the team to contractor has both the authority and achieve this.
The outlook for 2008 and obligation to stop any operation that beyond is extremely promising.
might be considered unsafe at any time.
Meeting the challenge of transformational change These are very exciting and challenging Aidan Heavey times for Tullow.
Exceptional exploration Chief Executive Officer success, and strong production in 2007, have created an opportunity to deliver Key performance indicators KPIs Every year each business unit is set performance targets that are based on and support Tullows strategy.
Tullow is organised into four core areas and seven business units.
These business units have annual performance targets which link directly into and are aligned with our growth strategy and how we measure and maintain our strong progress.
In total, across the Group, we look at some 25 metrics in areas such as health and safety, the environment and financial performance.
The table below lists the Groups KPIs, which the Board regularly reviews to maintain their appropriateness.
In 2008, we will be adding another KPI which focuses on our people performance, to ensure that we continue to attract and retain top quality staff, particularly in an industry where human resources are scarce.
On page 34 and 40 of this report you will find additional information on both the financial and non-financial metrics we use to assess the ongoing progress of the business.
KPIs 2007 2006 Change Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate LTIFR 1.95 0.81 142% Production boepd 73,100 64,720 13% Reserve and resource replacement % 434 173 261% Cash operating costs per boe 5.05 4.74 7% Operating cashflow before working capital m 473.8 446.7 6% TSR % 66 49 17% Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11
