AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Directors report Chief Executives review 4 y0 ears of innovation Last year was a milestone year for AVEVA.
Our core markets are continuing to enjoy record levels of growth and we are capitalising on the different opportunities this offers.
Summary of the Chief Executives review i The Companys outstanding performance during the year has propelled AVEVA into the FTSE 250 i In the last two years AVEVA has seen its market share in the power related industries expand signicantly as demand for increased supply globally continues to gather pace i With global shipyard activity hitting new highs during the year, AVEVA has been able to maximise its position as the leading supplier to the marine industries 12 1 AVV ar07 frontlrmap.
indd 12 07 06 2007 14:53:11 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Directors report Richard Longdon CEO Last year was a milestone year for AVEVA.
information when there is upgrade AVEVA has completed a Our core markets are continuing to or repair work to be carried out.
landmark year of successes in enjoy record levels of growth and we are 2006 7 and the business is now capitalising on the different opportunities We are also investing in the AVEVA NET this offers.
In particular, a material number family of products.
This product range will operating at a higher level in of high value deals were concluded this year.
lead us into the growing market for Product every area.
With both plant and marine products, AVEVA Lifecycle Management systems.
This is an has been consistently beating competitors emerging technology in which AVEVA are generation is a real strength and positions by demonstrating the value and strength uniquely positioned to bene t from due AVEVA very well to capitalise on the strong of its product range and maximising the to our unrivalled understanding of the market expected for some years to come.
investment in local of ces to provide best complex major project execution processes.
in class support and service.
With global shipyard activity hitting new It is important that we maintain our close highs during the year, AVEVA has been The strong share price performance of dialogue with customers, not only for the able to maximise its world leading the stock through the year has propelled continual progression of existing products, position as the number one supplier AVEVA into the FTSE 250 and the but also for the launch of new products to the marine industries, by increasing Company has won a number of awards, which will elevate AVEVAs strategic value product usage as existing customers most notably the London Stock Exchange within its customer base.
Our success rate in winning new techMARK Company of the Year and the closely with our customers we have customers has also been first class.
While PLC Company of the Year, in addition to developed a detailed product roadmap winning business in the booming Korean a number of local business awards.
These through to 2010 aimed at meeting speci c market and the strongly emerging are a great tribute to all the employees demands of our customers.
Chinese markets, we are also revitalising that have been so dedicated to making sales in Europe and the Middle East.
Major industry focus Notably, we have won VT Shipbuilding The AVEVA product range is sold to owners, in the UK and Dragon Offshore in the Rebranding operators and engineering contractors Middle East as customers, utilising our With an increasing number of products associated with complex process plant new capabilities for the combination and the greatly increased awareness of and marine assets.
Our customers are active of highly sophisticated hull design and the AVEVA brand globally, we are taking in power, oil and gas, marine, paper and out tting technology available on a single this opportunity to simplify our branding pulp, food processing, brewing and many database platform.
With such a high as we broaden the use of AVEVA core process related activities.
Most large scale demand on yard capacity, yards worldwide technology.
All products will be marketed engineering projects are unique and of such are looking to increase their productivity under the AVEVA Plant and AVEVA Marine a scale that they cannot be prototyped, and ability to offer a wider range of brands.
Our new product branding but employ a concurrent design and build vessel designs.
and very slightly changed corporate approach, often involving many partners branding have been rolled out during across the globe working together on a Oil and Gas is the traditional strength for April 2007, along with a completely single project.
AVEVA has unparalleled AVEVA, with a large number of our customers redesigned and more accessible website.
experience and understanding of this active in this market globally.
energy commodity prices, demand growth Research and development and investment in infrastructure have led to We are continuing to invest heavily The Power segment has been a core market unprecedented demand for AVEVA tools as in Research and Development to for AVEVA over many years, though in the the primary supplier to this ever more global ensure that we retain our competitive last 2 years AVEVA has seen its market share industry.
New business has been generated advantage.
One of the areas in which we in the power related industries expand by some of the large international are investing is the management of asset signi cantly as demand for increased supply engineering customers expanding licence information.
Increasingly, customers are globally continues to gather pace, with a usage, as they maximise the use of skilled realising the value of the data related to particular emphasis on the high growth engineers on global project execution.
The the high value assets they own and are regions of Brazil, China, India and Russia.
investment in providing a system that can looking to maximise the value of such The knowledge gained in working with be used across multiple engineering sites customers across thermal and nuclear 13 1 AVV ar07 frontlrmap.
indd 13 07 06 2007 14:53:11 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Directors report Chief Executives review continued 4 y0 ears of continued growth around the world and still provide a ASIA PACIFIC revenue: 36.9 million consistent and high quality design gives 2006 23.7 million Revenues in Latin America grew by AVEVA a distinct competitive advantage.
Once again, the Asia Pacic region has produced excellent growth and now LNG is the worlds fastest growing fuel represents 39% of Group revenues.
and AVEVA is very well positioned in the During the year the team took 9 orders 65% supply chain, with many of its customers over 1 million.
active in the front end of the process, marine customers active in the In China, Josephine Zhou and her team transportation of product in complex have achieved growth of over 250% in The Asia Pacic region represents ships, and engineering companies active the marine business.
This was largely in the regasification process of the driven by new customer wins and product once it has been landed.
Already contract expansions from our marine AVEVA products have been used on some customer base.
Our marine division has 39% of the largest facilities in the world for capitalised on Chinas goal to become LNG processing and transportation.
the worlds largest supplier of new ship of Group revenues tonnage within 10 years.
The substantial AVEVAs global presence investments in both the construction and AMERICAS revenue: 13.5 million renovation of shipyards has seen a huge Revenues in WEMEA grew by 2006 11.1 million increase in business for AVEVA this year.
The Americas region grew 22% during the year with the strongest sub-regional Nuclear power also plays a major part in growth in Latin America.
The main driver the generating mix in China and, as well 53% for this increase in business has been the as working with Chinas supply partners, booming oil and gas market, with all AVEVA will supply the design tools for existing AVEVA customers reporting very the first new generation nuclear plant full order books and a strong pipeline of to be designed and built by Chinese The CES region has won potential future projects.
Our design tools are also being used on the new 1000Mw Super Latin America has seen 65% growth over Ultracritical thermal power plants in the last year and 30 new customers.
In this Zouxian and on the largest coal region we have a large oil and gas business, liquefaction plant in the world.
47 but are also very strong in the paper and new customers pulp industry.
The Korea Japan organisations have continued to expand.
As well as winning Although we already have a good market new customers, the AVEVA Korea team in Brazil, Chile and Mexico, careful has been providing on site support to evaluation has shown that there are a number of established customers further potential growth opportunities including Hyundai Heavy Industries, as for us in these markets.
In response to the worlds largest shipbuilder continues this, we are planning further investment to roll out the AVEVA marine design in this region, principally through the tools.
We are also working very closely opening of new ofces.
We started this with Hyundai on the development of process this year, with the opening of a AVEVA Marine 12 and they currently have subsidiary ofce in Mexico City.
a number of engineers embedded in our development organisation.
Our contract with Hyundai has seen delivery 14 1 AVV ar07 frontlrmap.
indd 14 07 06 2007 14:53:12 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Directors report of the first combined Tribon and AVEVA suppliers, whose products remain Prospects technology and AVEVA Marine 12 will influential to the success of their AVEVA has completed a landmark year of follow, with full customer roll-out before businesses.
AVEVA secured the rights successes in 2006 7 and the business is the end of 2007.
The successes in to 2 of these products during the year, now operating at a higher level in every Korea in recent years are now being bringing both customer relationships area.
We are particularly focused on emulated in Japan, with a strong and know-how.
ensuring we have the highest quality upturn in business in this country.
people to continue our growth and will WEMEA revenue: 21.7 million continue to pursue various initiatives Elsewhere in the region we have been 2006 14.2 million in the coming year to maintain our high investing in new people and have taken Across the Western European, Middle East staff retention rate and to attract the good orders in India, Malaysia and and Africa WEMEA region, with its best new talent.
Indonesia across all industry sectors, with 3 sub-regions, the focus has been on a very significant amount of new orders for generating new marine business in all of Our customers order books remain at AVEVA NET.
We have aggressive plans to the major industries served by AVEVA.
This the highest levels for many years, with continue our growth across the Asia Pacic has been the first full year as Head of WEMEA a considerable backlog in many of the region and with so much new customer for Martin Yeomans and it has been an industries key to the growth of AVEVA.
activity across the region, we will also be outstanding year for both generating new We plan to continue our high level of locating some Research and Development business and strengthening the team in investment in Research and Development activity in both China and Korea.
in the coming year as we develop our existing products and bring to market our CES revenue: 22.8 million In the Nordic sub-region, where AVEVA new product lifecycle management tools.
2006 17.0 million has a large installed base in the oil and The Central and Southern Europe CES gas industry, we have seen very strong During the last year we have made region had an excellent year, winning 47 new demand for product throughout the selective acquisitions to enhance our customers with over half of these migrating year and AVEVA has capitalised on the product range and to get new products from our major competitor.
investments made on the West coast of based on the AVEVA core technology to Norway to get full service ofces close market expeditiously.
Our healthy cash A major opportunity is developing out of to the customers activities.
Of particular balance allows us flexibility to move our early stage investment in the Russian importance is the decision by Statoil to quickly ahead with bolt-on product market.
AVEVA has been operating in move all of their engineering design data acquisitions.
With the proven success of Russia for over 2 years and now has a into AVEVA systems, using specially Tribon now complete, we are also focused steadily growing, strong and sustainable developed translators to migrate data on future opportunities for strategic business.
We have formed a subsidiary in from legacy systems.
In conjunction with acquisitions and continue to seek value Russia, within which we are now growing capturing the vitally important as built driven targets.
our team, and will also be integrating plant status using laser technology, into this the marine sales and support accurate asset information can be We are optimistic about continued strong business based in St Petersburg built in the AVEVA systems and used performance in all areas of the business.
Our progress in for design modication and extension.
the complex Russian market this year increased considerably, with 2 of the In Finland, the first new design nuclear regions inuential power businesses reactor for many years is being built.
The prime contractor, AREVA, uses our Richard Longdon complete plant product portfolio.
Our Chief Executive The CES region has many companies with customer relationships and strength a long history of engineering in the key of product offering have positioned us markets for AVEVA.
These customers are well to take advantage of the increased supported by a number of software demand for nuclear reactors globally.
