Report of the Directors continued Group Chief Executive I am pleased to report on a good year for Unilever one in which An endorsement of our strategy we continued to grow competitively, consistently and profitably.
These results are testimony to the fact that our strategy of With a clear growth strategy and an organisational structure to focusing resources on brands, categories and countries with the support it, there is growing evidence of improved momentum in highest growth and profit potential is working.
One key area is developing and emerging markets.
Over the next In 2007 underlying sales grew by 5.5% the third consecutive few years consumer spending in these markets will overtake year of accelerating sales growth.
At the same time, we achieved developed countries in terms of purchasing power parity.
Unilever an underlying improvement in our operating margin, despite has an unparalleled footprint in the developing world, as well as sharply rising commodity costs.
Our growth was broad-based, an extensive knowledge of local consumers, and a proven ability across all our major regions and categories.
to deliver health, hygiene and nutrition products which meet the needs of populations which are growing in size, wealth and In Europe we achieved growth of nearly 3% up from 1% the aspiration.
The benets of all the structural changes we have made in this region over the past three years are now coming Personal care another strategic priority saw continued strong through both in terms of growth and underlying margin.
It continues to be our fastest-growing business, with strong global brands like Dove, Ponds, Lux and Russia was the star performer with growth in the high teens Rexona.
but all our major European businesses grew in 2007.
Our Vitality mission to help people feel good, look good and In the Americas full year growth was 4%.
Brazil and Mexico get more out of life remains central to our strategy, inspiring showed an improving performance during the year, while the US products such as a very low-fat variant of Hellmanns mayonnaise: grew solidly at 3%.
Amaze snacks, with nutrients to help support the mental development of school-aged children: Lipton Linea slimming teas: In Asia Africa we recorded 11% growth.
The performance reects and the Dove pro age range with benets for mature women.
not just the vibrancy of these markets but also the high priority which we place on building our business in this part of the world.
Of course, our brands must be constantly refreshed to retain their Once again, India and China were important contributors to our edge.
In 2007, across each of our major categories, growth was success.
driven by a combination of innovation new products and new mixes and renovation the strengthening of existing brands The picture was equally strong across our categories driven by through new variants, new packaging or new marketing.
In 2007 we focused on bigger innovations and rolled them out Home care had a strong year, fuelled by an excellent performance faster around the world.
Clear, a shampoo with superior antifrom our laundry business where the Dirt is Good brands dandruff active delivery technology, was launched simultaneously strengthened still further on the back of innovations like Persil in several countries, including three of the biggest hair care Small & Mighty.
We also had great success in household care with markets in the world China, Russia and Brazil.
We also achieved innovative new variants of brands like Cif and Domestos.
a better transfer of mixes across continents and cultures, in some cases creating new markets.
For example, we successfully Our Foods category also did very well.
Our largest brand Knorr launched our male deodorant brand Axe in Japan.
After just six came close to 4 billion in sales.
Lipton tea prospered from a months it is the leader in its market.
series of good innovations and so too did ice cream.
Unilever Foodsolutions, our global food service business, also turned in A leaner, tter business another good performance, conrming the important opportunity During the year we made significant progress in reshaping the that out-of-home consumption offers us.
organisation to create a leaner, more exible business structure.
Our One Unilever operating model is being implemented in every major country.
We are now taking this a step further with the creation of new multi-country organisations clusters of neighbouring countries with one central management structure, leveraging regional scale through shared services for functions such as HR, IT and Finance.
These changes are all part of our accelerated programme of restructuring announced last summer.
4 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued Group Chief Executive continued We further shaped our portfolio through disposals and The year ahead acquisitions, including the announced sale of Boursin and Lawrys Notwithstanding some economic uncertainty and the rising costs brands that offered limited growth potential for Unilever.
We of many materials, we are confident that Unilever can grow also announced agreements to acquire the Buavita vitality drinks consistently, profitably and competitively in 2008. brand in Indonesia and only recently Inmarko, the leading ice cream business in Russia.
These transactions accelerate our The changes we have made in recent years leave Unilever more strategy of building leadership positions in fast-growing markets.
resilient and better placed than ever before to meet challenges and respond to opportunities.
We have a more exible, dynamic This is the right strategy for Unilever but like any strategy it is structure, an increasingly powerful brand portfolio, an only as good as the execution.
That is why we also continue to unparalleled footprint in the developing world and in 2008 build our strengths in critical areas such as consumer marketing we have another exciting programme of innovations and new and customer development.
In both cases our progress was product launches.
Furthermore, we operate in sectors less recognised externally.
In marketing, we received a clutch of susceptible than others to the effects of an economic downturn: awards at the Cannes International Advertising Festival, with Dove people will always need to eat, wash and clean their homes.
and Axe achieving three Grand Prix trophies.
In customer development, Unilever was named International Supplier of the For all these reasons we remain optimistic about the year ahead Year by Tesco for the second year running.
and confident of making further progress towards our longerterm financial objectives.
We are also raising our game in research and development R&D, recognising the crucial role technology can play in the quality of On a personal note I would like to thank two members of the our innovations.
Underlining the importance of R&D, we Unilever Executive who will leave us in 2008 - Kees van der Graaf appointed our first Chief Technology officer, Neal Matheson, in and Ralph Kugler.
They have been valued colleagues over many 2007.
Neal leads the development of world class capabilities in years and I thank them for their contribution.
Indeed, I would science and technology and champions excellence in all our thank the whole of my Executive team, including two great innovation activity.
additions during the year, Mike Polk and Jim Lawrence, the latter joining from outside as our new Chief Financial officer.
Thanks Of course, some changes required difficult decisions.
In Europe, also to my colleagues on the Boards, under our new Chairman, the restructuring is leading to significant job losses.
But painful Michael Treschow, and especially to every one of our employees as these decisions have been, they are the right ones for the longaround the world for their invaluable contribution to the term health of the business.
Keeping sustainability at the heart of Unilever Working together, as One Unilever, I am confident that we can We believe Unilever can only continue to thrive if we conduct our look forward to delivering continued success in 2008. business in a sustainable manner.
Integrating social, economic and environmental considerations therefore sits at the heart of many of our brand strategies.
A Patrick Cescau great demonstration of this was the decision to source all of our Group Chief Executive tea from sustainable, ethical sources.
To support this significant change, we asked the Rainforest Alliance to start auditing our tea suppliers with immediate effect.
The aim is to have all Lipton Yellow Label and PG Tips tea bags sold in Western Europe certied by 2010 and all Lipton tea bags sold globally by 2015.
We also set the ambitious target of a further 25% reduction in the businesss CO2 emissions from energy sources used in production by 2012.
And we continued to develop our partnerships with key retail customers, sharing our sustainability expertise to support them in achieving their goals.
Wal-Mart responded by naming us 2007 Supplier of the Year for Sustainable Engagement.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5
