10 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chief Executives Review Mike Wagstaff Introduction During 2007, Venture continued the development of its North Sea business, participating in the drilling of 11 new wells, bringing two new fields on stream Chiswick and Mimas, and completing some of the largest and most complex projects in the Companys history.
In addition, we have either completed or reached important milestones in the development of a number of key assets which, in aggregate, have substantially fide-risked our business.
Average net daily production for 2007 was 41,228 barrels of oil equivalent per day boepd, a decrease of 7.7% over 2006.
During 2007, the benefit of Ventures strong underlying reservoir and well performance was impacted by certain exceptional operational events and project delays which included higher than anticipated downtime on GKA, delay in the start-up of production from the Chiswick field, delay in start-up of production from Chestnut and the continued delay in the anticipated gas blow down within the Birch reservoir.
In contrast to these disappointing timing impacts, elsewhere in the portfolio the A Fields and Goosander both outperformed expectations.
Particularly encouraging individual field production performances came from both Annabel and Saturn which both continued to exceed expectations.
Our southern North Sea SNS gas fields contributed 60% of total 2007 Group production, slightly higher than expectations, with the balance from Ventures central North Sea CNS oil fields.
During 2007, Venture has continued to build its business through continued execution of our proven strategy, summarised as follows: The acquisition, development and production of proved but under-exploited oil and gas fields, known as stranded reserves.
Geographic focus as a North Sea development and production company.
Continual development of our portfolio of interests in over 40 North Sea oil and gas fields, less than half of which are currently in production.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 2007 was an exciting year of operational and strategic progress for Venture and we successfully completed the largest and most complex engineering and field development projects ever undertaken by the Company.
Leveraging of Ventures substantial operational and development the Chiswick field development.
This second well tested at flow rates expertise we believe gives us a real and sustainable competitive of 42 MMscfpd, towards the top end of our pre-drill expectations.
advantage as an efficient and focused low cost operator.
The results of this well will enable Venture to commit to the development Continued enhancement of our very valuable long term strategic of the Ensign field during 2008, with a target of first gas during late 2009. relationships with our core contractors which help to ensure the availability of key equipment and services in a tight market.
During the first half of 2007, Venture sidetracked the Amanda discovery well originally drilled in 2003.
This appraisal well was completed and At 31 December 2007, net proven and probable reserves were estimated tested at rates below expectations and is not economic on a stand-alone to total 203 million barrels of oil equivalent MMboe.
The well was suspended awaiting the results of the Agatha a modest 8.4% fall from the end of 2006, which is the first time in the exploration well, which is expected to be drilled in 2009.
As a result, Companys history that annual production has not been replaced several Venture decided to take a non-cash write-off of historic development times over.
This pause in the growth of Ventures reserves base is cost of 11.2 million against the cost of the well drilled in 2003. principally the result of the 2007 re-categorisation of probable reserves from the Pilot field to contingent resources, and also reflects the absence In the third quarter of 2007, the Channon exploration well successfully of any significant completed acquisitions during the year.
Stabilised gas flow at rates of up to 55 MMscfpd gross was achieved and the well has been suspended for future completion During the year, Venture has positioned itself strategically and financially as a producer.
Estimated net recoverable reserves from the Channon for the next phase of its growth.
As planned, we successfully completed reservoir are 30 to 40 billion cubic feet Bcf, which is at the top end of a major refinancing of the Company ahead of the current difficult capital pre-drill expectations.
Discovery of gas at Channon creates the potential markets conditions, including raising 151 million in new capital from for a joint development with the Barbarossa gas discovery located in two new strategic investors, which will better enable Venture to move block 47 9c, a subsea tie-back to nearby infrastructure.
Venture will quickly to take advantage of material acquisition opportunities in the earn its 90% interest in Barbarossa once the appraisal development North Sea.
well which was spudded in late February 2008 is drilled.
Expected reserves from this well are around 30 Bcf net to Venture.
Operational Overview a Fields Greater Markham area GMa The Noble Julie Robertson NJR jack-up drilling rig continued to operate During 2007, production from the GMA hub was in line with for Venture in the SNS under a long term contract.
In light of Ventures expectations and delivery rates benefited from the impact of the active SNS drilling campaign, this contract has recently been extended Markham Compression Tower, which was installed during late 2006. for a further 12 months through to late 2009.
On GMA, the highlight of 2007 was the start-up of production from During 2007, two appraisal wells were drilled on the Ensign gas field.
the Chiswick field at the end of September.
While first gas production The first, completed in January 2007, was drilled and completed and was some six months later than originally planned due to the unexpected tested at rates of 1215 million standard cubic feet per day MMscfpd.
and unavoidable lack of an available well stimulation vessel in the North Sea, The second well drilled towards the end of the year was subsequently Ventures ability to recover through the development of an innovative hydraulically fractured, utilising the boat and equipment developed for solution utilising a pumping spread on the back of a large supply boat is 12 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chief Executives Review continued testament to our operational capability.
Initial production was somewhat Other CNS lower than anticipated due to a slower than expected clean-up of the Field development activity on our other oil assets in the CNS during first production well, although this is not expected to impact longer 2007 was focused on the Chestnut field.
Installation of the production term production performance.
In addition, Venture has now successfully and support facilities on the new Sevan 300 floating production unit, drilled, fractured and tested the second Chiswick production well which, the Hummingbird, was completed in December in Rotterdam.
The as recently announced, tested at higher than forecast rates.
The well was Hummingbird was installed in the Chestnut field at the end of the year successfully brought on stream in February 2008 and Chiswick will be a and offshore hook-up and commissioning work and subsea tie-in activity major contributor to Group production in 2008 and beyond.
is ongoing, although progress on these activities has been slower than anticipated for a variety of reasons, including winter weather related Greater Kittiwake area GKa issues.
First oil is currently anticipated during the third quarter.
During 2007, production from the GKA hub was adversely affected by poor uptime availability of the tanker loading and export system.
Ongoing subsurface studies using new data on the Chestnut reservoir This loss of productive capacity continued into the fourth quarter, have identified the potential to drill an additional production well in the but was partially offset by continued strong reservoir performance, field.
This is expected to significantly increase recoverable reserves from particularly from Goosander.
Development activity on GKA in 2007 was the field, and it is anticipated that this project will be sanctioned during focused on the construction and installation of the new export pipeline the first half of the year, leading to the well being drilled towards the end between the Kittiwake platform and the Forties Pipeline System.
The new of 2008. pipeline was successfully installed and brought on stream in November, and is already contributing to substantially improved operational uptime, During the fourth quarter of 2007, drilling continued on the Selkirk and is expected to lower overall operating costs and allow GKA field life appraisal well.
The well was sidetracked into the crest of the reservoir to be extended.
structure, but has been suspended due to operational difficulties.
The well has, however, proved up commercial reserves and the operator In addition, during the fourth quarter, Venture successfully drilled an has commenced development planning.
appraisal well on the Grouse oil field.
This was successful and will lead to a fast track development of the field as a subsea tie-back to the Kittiwake An appraisal well on Pilot field in block 21 27a was drilled during the platform.
The Grouse production well is expected to come on stream in third quarter.
Oil samples recovered from the Pilot well are somewhat the first half of 2009.
Looking further forward, the recently announced heavier and more viscous than those from previously drilled Pilot wells, acquisition of an additional interest in, and operatorship of, the Bligh gas and this new data is being evaluated to better determine the extent of condensate field will, together with the nearby Christian field, form the the commercially recoverable oil.
Based on the well result, the probable core for the next phase of the development of the GKA hub beyond 2010. reserves associated with Pilot have been moved to the contingent resources category, and an impairment charge of 9.0 million against the carrying Trees value of the asset has been taken.
Trees production was stable during 2007.
The Birch oil field has produced steadily but the anticipated gas blow-down of the reservoir has not To the south of Pilot, the appraisal well drilled adjacent to the Narwhal yet occurred.
It is expected that this natural change in production discovery failed to encounter hydrocarbons and the well was plugged characteristics will happen at some point and, when it does, more and abandoned.
The appraisal well drilled on Millburn discovery associated gas will start to be produced, thus raising the overall field encountered 12 feet of oil-bearing sandstone which is considered production rate.
Whilst reducing reported production volumes, the sub-economic, and the appraisal well was also plugged and abandoned.
financial impact of this was limited as the gas produced from Trees is sold offshore at a large discount to benchmark market prices.
Trinidad Venture retains a 40% shareholding in Ten Degrees North Energy Limited During 2007, Venture commenced a major seismic reprocessing and TDNEL, an oil and gas production company based and registered in interpretation study on the entire Trees production hub, which will be Trinidad.
TDNEL produced an average of 1,522 boepd 609 boepd net completed during 2008.
Whilst the analysis of the remaining potential during 2007. in the southern part of the Sycamore development has not yet been completed, preliminary results of this study suggest that in the central Corporate and Business Development part of the Sycamore field, there is limited re-investment opportunity.
Over the last three years, Venture has focused on becoming an efficient This has led to the Company taking a non-cash impairment charge acquisition, development and production operator and today, following in 2007 of 24.5 million, against the value of our historic investment a series of almost 50 acquisitions, it ranks as the sixth largest independent in Sycamore.
operator in the UK sector of the North Sea by gross operated production.
In a mature basin such as the North Sea, Venture believes that its operating capability, size, scale and strategic and geographic focus give it a strong competitive position, and a positioning that Venture believes would be difficult to replicate.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 In terms of completed transactions, 2007 represented a quiet year for Current Trading and Outlook both Venture and the North Sea oil and gas industry.
In recent months, Operationally, we have had a good start to 2008 with the majority of driven by the fundamentals in the global energy market, Venture has operational issues, which impacted 2007 production performance now seen a significant increase in levels of asset trading activity in the North behind us.
Our 2008 drilling programme has had an excellent start with Sea, although this has yet to be translated into completed transactions.
results ahead of expectations seen on both the Ensign and Chiswick This activity is consistent with historical patterns seen in other mature wells.
2008 is also proving to be a much more active year than 2007 producing regions such as the US Gulf of Mexico where, as the basin from a business development perspective, with five acquisitions already matures, ownership of substantial proportions of the basins oil and announced to date.
gas reserves has migrated from larger international oil companies, to more regionally focused independents.
Venture believes that it is In looking forward to the rest of the year, we note that Ventures 2008 9 well positioned competitively to capitalise on this consolidation trend, development programme consists of a number of projects which are which it believes will create significant opportunities for the Company individually subject to the everyday risks this industry faces: some of to expand its business.
which are beyond our direct control, and most of which impact timing of production, rather than the intrinsic value of our assets.
We believe To position itself financially for this anticipated phase of consolidation this years development programme is somewhat lower risk than 2007, in the short to medium term, in July, Venture announced that it had in that there are fewer new production additions coming on stream entered into agreements with 3i Group plc and its affiliates 3i and earlier in the year, which contribute to the growth in production in ArcLight Capital Partners, LLC and its co-investors ArcLight, to make 2008.
The two most significant are the second Chiswick gas well, a significant strategic investment in Venture.
In aggregate, when their which, as recently announced, has now been successfully brought on subscription for a new convertible bond and shares purchased in the stream, and start-up of production from the Chestnut oil field.
open market are taken together, 3i and ArcLight have made a total new investment of over 200 million in Venture.
Ventures production guidance for 2008, set around the end of 2007, assumed a start-up of production from Chestnut during the second 3is and ArcLights investments consist of a number of elements as follows: quarter, and we now expect first oil production during the third quarter.
The impact of each one month delay in the start-up of production from 151 million in newly issued 3.25% convertible bonds CBs due the field represents a reduction in annual average production for 2008 2010 which are convertible into 16.5 million newly issued Venture of approximately 1,000 boepd.
Notwithstanding this, we still continue ordinary shares.
to expect 2008 production to be within our guidance range of 50,000 Conversion of ArcLights existing North Sea Gas Partners NSGP boepd - 10%.
interest into 6.0 million new Venture ordinary shares.
3is existing investment in Venture of 2.6 million shares.
The success of Ventures business depends on the sustained delivery of Both 3i and ArcLight made additional market purchases of Venture our acquire, develop and produce strategy, leading to continued growth shares to take their total stakes to approximately 10% on a fully in reserves, production and cash flow over a sustained period.
now and the end of 2009, Venture anticipates bringing on stream a total of eight significant new projects, which are expected to boost net In addition, during the second half of 2007, Venture completed a 600 production significantly from todays levels.
million refinancing of its debt facilities.
This consists of two elements, a 365 million new corporate credit facility and a total of approximately In summary, as a result of the strong operating performance of our 235 million in privately placed institutional loan notes, with final business, combined with favourable commodity prices and increased maturities of 10 and 15 years.
Combined with the strategic investment activity in the acquisitions market, the Board remains very confident of from 3i and ArcLight, Venture now has strengthened financing sources the outlook for Ventures business in 2008 and beyond.
from which to deliver its growth strategy.
Mike Wagstaff In order to improve Ventures ability to pursue opportunities through the Chief Executive UKCS Licensing Rounds, in early 2008 Venture formed two partnerships with two small UK exploration focused independents to pursue opportunities in the SNS and CNS, as part of the 25th UK Licensing Round which was recently announced.
