CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 2007 WAS ANOTHER YEAR OF GOOD PROGRESS FOR THE GROUP.
2007 Results Sales of our market-leading steel flow control products, 2007 was another year of good progress for the Group, driven used in the enclosed continuous casting process, grew 9% by a continued strong improvement in the Ceramics divisions to 372 million.
Linings activity worldwide grew 11% to performance.
Group revenue from continuing operations 310 million, with particularly strong growth in NAFTA.
increased by 6% and trading profit grew 17% at constant Worldwide, the linings margin reached 7.7% pre divisional exchange rates.
Headline profit before tax increased by 14% and central cost allocations, up from 5.8% in 2006.
Fused and strong profit growth in lower tax jurisdictions resulted in a silica revenue grew 23% to 52 million driven by a 50% rise lower tax charge.
As a result, headline earnings per share were in sales of Solar Crucibles, reflecting the continuing strong up 17% to 54.3 pence.
growth rates in the worldwide production of photovoltaic or Net debt at 31 December 2007 was 51 million 2006: solar cells.
181 million, the Company having raised 151 million from Production capacities are being expanded in the higherthe share placing in October.
The worldwide pension deficit growth products and regions.
In 2007, two new Solar reduced from 155 million to 96 million, reflecting cash Crucible plants were completed, one in Poland and one in contributions of 45 million and favourable discount rate China and work has started on building three more one in movements.
the Czech Republic and two more in China.
Also in 2007 new slide-gate steel flow control facilities in Mexico and Ceramics division Poland were completed, linings production in India and The divisions underlying revenue increased by 11% to Mexico was expanded, and a local supplier of linings 781 million.
Trading profit increased 25% to 109.4 million products in China was acquired which gives us a base from and the return on sales margin for the second half of 2007 which to expand linings operations in Asia.
Several further reached 14.4%, consistent with the new margin target range expansion projects were announced for completion in 2008, of 14% to 16% announced last August.
including foundry crucible facilities in China and Mexico and Global steel production, our main end-market, grew 8% VISO steel flow control facilities in China and Europe.
in 2007 and our underlying revenue growth exceeded steel production growth in all regions.
Cookson Group plc 8 Annual Report 2007 OUR BUSINESS Electronics division In September 2007, the assets, designs and customer The divisions trading profit was up 3% to 58.0 million on lists of a local competitor in the US, Leach & Garner, were underlying revenue 2% lower at 559 million, reflecting mix acquired for US$7 million.
Over the first half of 2008, changes in product sales, as detailed below.
The return on production of the acquired product ranges will be sales margin of 10.4% was slightly down on 2006 due to the transferred into our Attleboro and Dominican Republic pass through of higher metals prices to customers facilities.
This should increase our net sales value in the US impacting revenue but not profit.
If metals prices had and help offset the decline in the US market.
Notremained at 2006 levels, the 2007 pro-forma return on withstanding this, in response to the current weak retail sales margin would have been 11.5%.
environment in the US, we implemented 60 redundancies at The Assembly Materials sector continued to benefit from Attleboro in February 2008. growing demand for higher-margin products, particularly SACX the low silver content lead-free solder and solder Foseco acquisition pastes both lead-free and lead-based due to the continuing Following the recent anti-trust clearances by the EU and US shift from wave soldering to surface mount technologies.
competition authorities and the approval of the transaction Conversely demand for electronic solder bar and wire, by Fosecos shareholders, the approval by Cooksons particularly traditional lead-based, is declining.
As a shareholders at todays EGM and Court approval of the consequence of this change in the mix of activities, trading scheme of arrangement are now awaited.
This should lead profit increased 10% on underlying revenue 6% lower than to the transaction being completed on 4 April 2008.
The Semi-conductor Packaging Materials business, synergy expectations from combining Foseco with our which represents 5% of Assembly Materials sector revenue, Ceramics operations, which were announced last October, experienced difficult market conditions and consequently are reconfirmed.
The Board remains convinced of the clear made a loss of almost 1 million compared with a profit of strategic rationale for this acquisition and that it will deliver 2 million in 2006, on revenue down 14% for the year.
Progress is being made in the turnaround of this business.
The Chemistry sector saw a continuation of the first half Outlook revenue trends with good growth in plating-on-plastics and The positive end-market trends experienced by Ceramics corrosion and wear resistant coating products for the over the second half of last year have continued and we are industrial and automotive markets, but weaker growth in increasing production capacities in the higher-growth surface finish products for the electronic printed circuit board products and regions.
The Ceramics division will be further market.
Underlying revenue grew 3%, but trading profit was enhanced by the acquisition of Foseco which is expected to 3% lower, reflecting this change in mix of product sales.
In Electronics, some slowing of In September 2007, a new Assembly Materials factory in growth rates is expected for consumer electronics, but we Mexico was opened and two factories in the US were closed.
have been implementing efficiency improvements to offset A solder reclaim operation in the US was started where our this.
Precious Metals faces a weak retail environment, but its customers waste products and scraps are recycled and, performance should be helped by recent and ongoing based on the success of this initiative, planning approvals are significant cost base reductions.
being sought to set up an equivalent operation in China in We therefore anticipate a continuing strong performance 2008.
In Europe, the intention to relocate solder paste in 2008. production from the UK to Hungary by the end of 2008 has been announced, to reflect the migration of our customer base in Europe to the East.
Construction of the new Chemistry plant in China has been delayed by over one year due to more complex permitting requirements than originally foreseen, but these issues are now close to being resolved.
Precious Metals division For the full year, net sales value was 1% lower than 2006 and trading profit was down 2% both at constant exchange Nick Salmon rates, which represented a reasonably encouraging second Chief Executive half performance after the weak first half results and the continuing weak retail environment in both North America 11 March 2008 and Europe.
Results from the European operations benefited from the restructuring undertaken in the UK in the first half of the year and the move of some production to a new low labour cost facility in Thailand which started up in August.
A similar move is being made in the US operations through the creation of a low labour cost facility in the Dominican Republic, where we will transfer the equivalent of 200 jobs from our Attleboro Massachusetts facility during 2008.
Cookson Group plc 9 Annual Report 2007
