Chief Executives Review We updated our strategy in 2006 and have made good the year to improve our competitiveness and share of market growth.
Our EMAPA region produced strong growth, with organic revenue up 21.1% and progress executing each strategic objective throughstrong performances in many emerging markets.
We have met or exceeded our stated While overall voice revenue remains under pressure, messaging and, in financial expectations for the year in all areas and particular data revenue, continue to show strong organic growth of 7% and your business is well positioned for the future.
Data revenue reached 1.4 billion, primarily from business services and the continued growth in the take up of 3G devices in our customer base, which doubled to 15.9 million.
Our strategic objectives Our focus on profitable growth delivered a 4.2% organic increase in adjusted Revenue stimulation and cost reduction in Europe operating profit, with 1.4% growth in total.
Strong performances in the US, Innovate and deliver on our customers total communications needs Spain and a number of emerging markets offset declines in our other major European markets.
Deliver strong growth in emerging markets Actively manage our portfolio to maximise returns We invested 4.2 billion in capital expenditure during the year and have now achieved the core level of 3G and HSDPA coverage across our European Align capital structure and shareholder returns policy to strategy networks necessary for the wider uptake of high speed data services.
Free cash flow generation remained strong at 6.1 billion, although lower than last year, primarily due to higher tax payments as expected.
The past 12 months have been an important period for Vodafone.
We updated our strategy in 2006 to address changing customer needs, the We now have an unrivalled global customer reach, with over 206 million availability of new technologies, a growing demand for broadband services proportionate customers across 25 countries, adding over 35 million customers and the greater growth potential of emerging markets.
This new strategy is during the year.
We completed the sale of our operation in Japan in April 2006 positioning us well as competition and regulatory pressures increase and our and of our minority interests in Belgium and Switzerland later in the year.
In May customers have greater choice in communications.
2006, we completed the acquisition of the assets of Telsim in Turkey and more recently gained a controlling position in a leading Indian operator.
Operationally, we have grown new revenue streams across the Group and implemented numerous programmes to significantly reduce our cost base.
Revenue bn Our emerging markets assets have continued to show strong growth and our 6.0% recent acquisition in India significantly increases our presence in high growth markets.
Our customer franchise was further strengthened both through 2007 31.1 organic growth and acquisition and now exceeds 206 million proportionate 2006 29.4 customers.
5 10 15 20 25 30 35 0 We have met or exceeded our stated financial expectations for the year in all areas.
Robust cash generation continues to support returns to our Adjusted operating profit bn shareholders, with dividends per share increasing by 11.4% to 6.76 pence 1.4% per share, representing a payout of 60% of our adjusted earnings per share.
2007 We have made good progress executing our updated strategy throughout the 9.5 year and we are now beginning to realise some positive early results.
We will 2006 9.4 remain focused on executing our strategic objectives in the year ahead and 0 2 468 10 believe your business is well positioned to be the leader in the communications industry.
Free cash flow bn Financial review 4.5% Statutory revenue increased by 6% to 31.1 billion, with organic revenue growth of 4.3%.
The Europe region, where competitive and regulatory 2007 6.1 pressure is most intense, delivered organic revenue growth of 1.4%.
2006 6.4 Continued strong progress in Spain, which delivered another year of double 0 2 46 8 digit revenue growth, offset year on year declines in Germany and Italy.
The Delivering on our strategy market environment is challenging for all operators in Europe.
However, we In May 2006, we introduced five new strategic objectives to ensure our have outperformed our principal competitors in Germany and Spain on continued success.
Our focus on executing this strategy throughout the year revenue and EBITDA growth, and have delivered a similar performance to our has generated positive results across a number of areas.
In the UK, we revised our tariffs mid-way through Revenue stimulation and cost reduction in Europe In Europe, our focus is to drive additional usage and revenue from core mobile voice and messaging services and to reduce our cost base.
Central to stimulating revenue is driving mobile usage through larger minute bundles, innovative tariffs, prepaid to contract migrations and targeted promotions.
We are also focused on leveraging our market leading position in the business segment, which represents 25% of our service We have launched revenue in Europe.
New tariff innovative offerings and are options, such as free weekends, lowering our cost structure have been launched in the UK and to position us well for the Germany that stimulated usage and in Italy we ran successful voice future and messaging promotions during the year that increased revenue per customer.
We also continued to perform well in Spain, driving an increase in total voice minutes of around 30%.
However, pricing pressure is expected to remain strong in the year ahead and improving price elasticity is core to our revenue stimulation objective in Europe.
6 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 Over 11 million customers now benefit from lower roaming pricing through Actively manage our portfolio to maximise returns Vodafone Passport and our European customers are now benefiting from our Our strategy is to invest only where we can generate superior returns for our commitment to reduce roaming prices by 40% compared to summer 2005. shareholders.
We look to invest in markets that offer a strong local position, We expect roaming revenues to be lower year on year in 2008 due to the with a focus on specific regions, with any transactions subject to strict combined effect of Vodafones own initiatives and direct regulatory financial investment criteria.
In line with this strategy, we executed a number of transactions during the During the year, we began implementing the core cost reduction programmes year.
We sold our non-controlling interests in Belgium and Switzerland at we developed last year.
We have successfully outsourced IT application attractive valuations, with cash India exposes us to one of development and maintenance and we are well on track to deliver expected proceeds of 1.3 billion and the fastest growing unit cost savings of approximately 25% to 30% within two to four years.
More have also made faster than expected progress on data centre consolidation, recently, we increased our communications markets with anticipated savings of 25% to 30% in one to two years.
Centralisation of emerging markets presence with in the world our network supply chain management was also completed in April 2007 and an additional 4.8% interest in is expected to reduce costs by around 250 million within one year.
Vodafone Egypt and gained control in India for 5.5 billion in May 2007.
In addition, we are seeking to reduce the longer term cost of ownership of our We remain committed to our investment in Verizon Wireless in the US which networks through network sharing arrangements and have announced continues to deliver strong performances on all key metrics, with record initiatives in Spain and the UK.
customer growth, due in part to a market leading low churn rate, and continued success in driving the uptake of non-voice services.
While many of these cost initiatives are multi-year programmes that are expected to deliver significant benefits over time, we are focused on realising Align capital structure and shareholder returns policy to strategy some early savings in the year ahead and, for Europe and common functions, In May 2006, we outlined a new capital structure and returns policy continue to target a 10% mobile capital expenditure to revenue ratio next consistent with the operational strategy of the business, resulting in a year, with broadly stable mobile operating expenses compared to the 2006 targeted annual 60% payout of adjusted earnings per share in the form of financial year.
Innovate and deliver on our customers total communications needs We also moved to a higher level of gearing and, having returned over 19 There are several key initiatives underway in this area and we expect these to billion to shareholders excluding dividends in the two previous financial years, begin to become more significant to the Group towards the end of next year.
including a 9 billion one-off return in August 2006, we have no current plans for further share purchases or one-time returns.
The Board remains As part of our drive to substitute fixed line usage with mobile, we have committed to its existing policy of distributing 60% of adjusted earnings per launched several fixed location pricing plans offering customers fixed line share by way of dividend.
However, in recognition of the earnings dilution prices when they call from within or around their home or office.
These arising from the Hutchison Essar acquisition, it has decided that it will target offerings target fixed to mobile substitution from home and office modest increases in dividend per share in the near term until the payout ratio environments and are proving popular with customers.
Vodafone At Home returns to 60%.
and Vodafone Office are currently available in seven markets for consumers and twelve markets for businesses, with over three million and over two Prospects for the year ahead million customers respectively.
Our focus in the year ahead will be on improving price elasticity in Europe, achieving more savings from our cost reduction programmes, delivering on Complementary to our high speed mobile broadband HSDPA offerings, our total communications strategy and beginning to realise the very Vodafone is now offering fixed broadband services DSL in five markets.
With the significant growth opportunity in India.
exception of Arcor, our fixed line business in Germany, the provision of these services to date has been on a resale basis.
We will continue to develop our We expect market conditions to remain challenging for the year ahead in approach for the provision and roll out of DSL services on a market by market Europe, notwithstanding continued positive trends in data revenue and voice basis and in some cases may complement our resale approach by building or usage.
Overall growth prospects for the EMAPA region remain strong due to acquiring our own infrastructure where the returns justify the investment.
increasing market penetration and they are further enhanced by the recent acquisition in India.
We are also developing products and services to integrate the mobile and PC environments by enhancing our Vodafone live!
service and forming Against this background, Group revenue is expected to be in the range of partnerships with leading internet players.
In the coming months, our 33.3 billion to 34.1 billion, with adjusted operating profit in the range of customers will be able to experience PC to mobile instant messaging with 9.3 billion to 9.8 billion.
Capital expenditure on fixed assets is anticipated to Yahoo!
and Microsoft, search with Google, auctions via eBay, videos through be in the range of 4.7 billion to 5.1 billion, including in excess of 1.0 YouTube and social networking with MySpace, all via their mobile.
Free cash flow is expected to be 4.0 billion to 4.5 billion, after taking into account 0.6 billion of payments related to long standing tax Mobile advertising is also a potentially significant future revenue stream for issues, a net cash outflow of 0.8 billion in respect of India and a 0.5 billion our business.
We have signed agreements with Yahoo!
in the UK and leading outflow from items rolling over from 2007. providers in Germany and Italy to enter into this new business through banner and content based advertising.
We have completed the first year under our new strategy and I am excited by the start we have made.
We have made good progress towards fulfilling our Deliver strong growth in emerging markets total communications vision and this is a journey that we are all looking Our focus is to build on our strong track record of creating value in emerging forward to taking at Vodafone.
We have delivered further strong growth in our existing operations in Egypt, Romania and South Africa.
Our recent acquisition in Turkey has We are well placed to continue executing our strategy in the year ahead, to performed ahead of our business plan at the time of the acquisition, with deliver the core benefits of mobility to our customers and to generate strong revenue growth and better than expected profitability.
superior returns for our shareholders.
The acquisition of interests in Hutchison Essar accelerates Vodafones move to a controlling position in a leading operator in India and significantly increases our presence in emerging markets.
With market penetration of around 14% and with a population of over 1.1 billion, India provides a very significant opportunity for future growth.
We look forward to bringing Arun Sarin Vodafones products, services and brand to the Indian market.
Chief Executive Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 7 Strategy
