CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Chief Executives statement Marketplace Workplace Community Health and safety Environment Governance Corporate Responsibility WE CONTINUE TO DRIVE OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME AND ITS INTEGRATION INTO OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY.
IN PARTICULAR, WE ARE PLEASED WITH OUR ACHIEVEMENT IN HEALTH AND SAfETY.
Paul Lester ChiefExecutive This year we have made sound progress developing our We are pleased with the achievements made this year Corporate Responsibility Programme.
Led by a senior in our Health and Safety programme.
Improved rigour level task force, and utilising business unit workshops, around our governance and assurance processes have we have improved understanding of our key issues and delivered confidence in the quality of management data opportunities and how these align with our business and will allow us to set stretching but realistic improvement vision and values.
However, for corporate responsibility to be meaningful it The board strongly believes that the safety culture of an has to be an integral part of our day-to-day operations.
organisation is shaped through the visible leadership of With this aim the task force will continue to provide its directors and managers.
Next year we will begin to leadership in the key material environmental and social implement our Safety Leadership Programme.
This year it will work with the This year we refreshed the Group Environmental Policy.
business units to develop our strategy further and ensure An external assessment of compliance, environmental business focused vision and action plans are delivered.
impact and risk, coupled with the preliminary base-line Key to this will be the embedding of appropriate KPIs data collected for the first time will provide a springboard to enable future performance measuring and reporting for our environmental programme next year.
as well as enhanced communication with, and Our data clearly demonstrates achievements in reducing understanding of, our stakeholders.
both cost and environmental load within our businesses.
We maintain our strong and open stance on ethical We recognise the importance of sustainability to trading and will be increasing our training and monitoring our customers.
We are working towards integrating regimes next year.
targets into our operations, and ensuring that the The board fully recognises that our strong financial results corporate responsibility dimension grows in our this year are the product of the efforts of our people.
VTs People Strategy has now put in the framework and tools that will enable all of our people to develop their full potential.
As well as building competences we will continue to ensure we share success appropriately.
30 VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 HOCKNEY JOIN SHOT OF WELDERS TO GO HERE Trading Ethically Export control compliance Working against corruption As described in last years CR report, the group continues Our policy states, in simple terms, what we all believe to to ensure that, as appropriate, it has policies, processes be right that corruption will not be tolerated.
No other and procedures in place and that the export controls of the policy or business target of the group takes precedence UK Government, European Community, US Government, over this rule.
In May 2006 our Anti-Corruption Policy was and any other relevant national controls are fully respected.
Appointment of agents is subject to a rigorous Whistle-blowing documented procedure overseen by a compliance The confidential whistleblowers line operated by committee.
Right CoreCare took 5 whistle-blowing calls during the year.
The group does not make political donations.
Our Of these, one issue was subjected to an internal investigation charitable donations are carried out as an integral part of reporting to the chief executive and appropriate action was our community relations policies.
The remainder were resolved via counselling services.
by the group charity committee and a record kept of all monies disbursed.
Ethics in our day-to-day business We recognise that ethical behaviour is not confined to We recognise that working to eliminate corruption will the field of corruption, but that proper conduct, allied with be successful only through industry-wide partnerships ensuring we know and meet our responsibilities, forms part with governments, international institutions and of our day-to-day business.
In 2006, the group joined forces with the UKs other leading defence companies and Our employees are recruited and trained in accordance defence sector Trade Associations forming the Society of with the law, and our clients requirements, including, for British Aerospace Companies UK Defence Industry Antiexample, the safeguarding of vulnerable groups, such as Corruption forum to promote the prevention of bribery schoolchildren.
Detailed reporting on corporate governance and corruption in the international defence market.
The is on pages 54 to 57. group is also working with the defence industry on an international basis through the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of Europe International Defence Anti-Corruption forum chaired by Lord Robertson, and facilitated by Transparency International.
