The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Review: 2007 was a year of significant achievement where all divisions delivered improved financial performance.
We have a strong platform to support future progress and remain well positioned to deliver further growth in 2008.
At the outset of the Groups programme for transformation, we defined our ambition to achieve sector best performance by targeting those markets that offer the most attractive prospects and in which the Group has a realistic ability to lead.
2007 proved a critical year on our journey.
We exited low margin and non core activities and acquired Weir SPM which operates in the higher margin, higher growth upstream oil sector.
The benefits of these initiatives were evident in our 2007 results.
We delivered higher order input and strong growth in the core areas of the business.
Our performance also demonstrated the Groups capabilities for integrating new business activities as shown by the seamless entry of Weir SPM into Clear Liquid and the integration of Weir Multiflo within Minerals.
In 2007, Group revenue from continuing operations increased 22% to 1.1bn with almost 90% of the years input tied to the mining, oil & gas and power generation and industrial markets.
Operating margins, before intangibles amortisation and exceptional items, also improved substantially with progress in all areas of operations.
In the year we delivered further significant Our Engineering Products Division achieved 13.9% compared with 11.1% last year and the 2006 restructuring programme undertaken growth in revenue, operating profit and by our Services Division contributed to an improved operating margin earnings per share and achieved our best of 8% in 2007 compared with 5.9% in the previous year.
The increase in the Groups debt to 171.3m, compared with 7.1m in operating year ever.
2006, is a reflection of the acquisition of Weir SPM.
Our Lean initiatives again delivered improved working capital and this contributed to the excellent operating cash generation achieved during the year.
Our Journey to Excellence Engineering Products Division The Engineering Products Division posted record results in 2007, growing order input 30%, revenue 35% and profit 70% when compared with 2006.
The division includes the combined activities of our Minerals, Clear Liquid and Valves & Controls businesses which supply pumps, valves and ancillary equipment to the oil & gas, mining and power generation and general industrial markets.
A key component of the divisions success in 2007 has been its strong portfolio of businesses with solid positions in growing and attractive markets and the addition of Weir SPM in the second half of the year.
Input grew 30% to 760.7m with more than 80% attributed to the mining, oil & gas and power generation markets.
We achieved excellent results from Minerals up 28% and Clear Liquid up 43% which when combined with 13% growth from Valves & Controls, resulted in the division achieving its highest ever level of order input.
6 Chief Executives Review In 2007, the divisions revenue grew 35% to 711.6m compared to 525.5m The CH Warman acquisition provides an excellent platform to grow our the previous year with a largely balanced workload of new project and mining activities within Africa.
The combination of CH Warman with our aftermarket activity.
Our businesses specialise in operationally critical, existing business will bring a stronger portfolio of mining products to the technology driven, high wear applications where new project sales provide market and provide the critical mass to justify further investment in the the foundations for medium to long term spares and service streams.
Our objective is to improve the operational performances of the existing operations while building the strategic platform for future Operating profit, before intangibles amortisation and exceptional items, consolidation benefits.
of 98.7m was up 70% on the 2006 result, validating confidence in our strategy of concentrating resources in higher growth markets in which The acquisition of Weir Multiflo for A$22m was also strategically the Group has the ability to lead.
Profitability improved in every area important, supporting our ambition to extend the range of product during the year.
This improvement plus the benefits of the Weir SPM offerings to existing customers.
Weir Multiflo was successfully integrated acquisition and a continued contribution from our operational excellence and now forms the divisions centre for dewatering products.
Plans are initiative all helped to achieve underlying margin growth to 13.9% being prepared to introduce Weir Multiflo products across the remaining compared with 11.1% last year.
Our Engineering Products Division includes a strong portfolio of businesses in Going forward, the Minerals business will benefit from the growing the mining, oil & gas and power generation markets and all the indicators demand for basic commodities and continue to progress against its point to sustained demand for our products.
Increasing infrastructure needs strategic goals.
in China and India combined with growing global population are expected The Valves & Controls businesses made solid progress in 2007 and to underpin ongoing sector growth in the medium term.
contributed to revenue and profit growth within the Engineering Products The Engineering Products Division has changed dramatically over the past Division during the year.
Overall input grew 13% to 77.6m with the few years.
We have restructured our underperformers, exited lower margin power and oil markets representing more than 80% of total orders activities and acquired new businesses in higher growth oil and mining booked in the year.
These activities, combined with focus on Lean processes and the During 2007, our United States operations grew their order input application of the Weir Production System, provide a strong basis for considerably through the award of new power generation projects in achieving improved results in 2008 and beyond.
China and plant upgrades in the USA.
Valves & Controls also recorded Our Minerals business posted another year of excellent progress with growth in oil related orders as a result of continued buoyant market significant gains in input, revenue and profit when compared with 2006. conditions in the UK, Indo Pacific and the Former Soviet Union, all The principal market for the business is global mining which accounted for regions which we expect will maintain a positive outlook for 2008. almost 70% of revenues in the year.
As outlined in our last update, Valves & Controls USA has now completed Order input grew 28% to 491.2m, reflecting the ongoing strength of plans to move to larger premises and to capitalise on the growing global mining markets as well as the benefits of managements emerging opportunities in its domestic market.
During the year, we disposed markets strategy and our entry into specialised areas of the power of the inefficient Salem, Massachusetts facility and will move the generation and oil sectors.
The combination of an ongoing spares stream operations into a new modern plant in the first quarter of 2008. from the existing installed base together with the year end order book Our Valves & Controls business in China continued to make good provides a solid platform for further progress in 2008 and beyond.
progress and contributed positively to the results of the division.
Orders Our Netherlands business secured significant new project work in the in the Chinese new build power sector substantially increased during mining markets of Madagascar and Brazil.
Power generation orders from the year and the outlook remains positive for 2008 and beyond.
India also contributed to this companys highest ever order input of We remain encouraged by the prospects for the Valves & Controls 101m in 2007 against 57m in 2006. businesses.
The European and North American power markets are The Americas also delivered impressive growth with significant new entering a period of life extensions and new build projects.
In addition, project work in Chile and Brazil adding to the success of our flue gas we expect dramatic growth in China, India and South Africa and remain desulphurisation products in North America.
In total, input grew 35% well placed to capitalise on these opportunities as we enter 2008. to 230m.
Our Clear Liquid businesses contributed significantly to the results of The Australian, Former Soviet Union and African markets continue to Engineering Products in 2007.
The acquisition of Weir SPM, our disposal benefit from mining investment and the division secured double digit of Weir Pumps, Glasgow and the significant growth of Weir Gabbioneta input growth from each of these regions.
were all significant contributors to Clear Liquids improved results.
Power related input totalled 67m compared with 45m in 2006, reflecting Clear Liquid now comprises a portfolio of businesses with solid positions in the increased global requirements for flue gas desulphurisation which is used growing and attractive markets.
to improve emissions in coal fired power stations.
The Minerals team has This reflects the addition of Weir SPM and a further 3% increase from the built a leading position in this high growth area and during the year secured speciality businesses against the record high input achieved in 2006.
The a significant number of new contracts in North America.
oil, power and general industrial markets collectively represent more than 75% of total orders booked in the year.
Recognising the need to respond to the changing geographic profile of the global mining market, our Minerals businesses continued to invest in The results for Clear Liquid include a partial year contribution from Weir growing their presence in the emerging territories of South America, Asia SPM from July of 2007 when the acquisition was completed.
Weir SPM and the Former Soviet Union.
Our recent announcement of the acquisition contributed 78.7m of revenue and 19.1m of operating profit, before of CH Warman further complements our geographic expansion agenda and intangibles amortisation, which exceeded our expectations at the time provides a strong foundation for growth in a rapidly developing market.
of the announcement of the acquisition.
Our success in clearing past due orders provided a one-off benefit in 2007 which is not expected to repeat in 2008.
The business has been successfully integrated and the Weir Production System is in the early stages of implementation.
7 The Weir Group PLC | Chief Executeves Review Weir SPMs market is largely tied to the upstream drilling of gas wells in We remain optimistic about the prospects for our Services Division which North America where gas storage levels, gas prices and North American is increasingly aligned with the higher growth oil & gas, power, mining weather conditions are key market drivers.
While we are likely to see and industrial markets.
The facility investments made in 2007, together some unwinding of favourable market conditions during 2008, we remain with the excellent progress from our joint ventures in Saudi Arabia and confident that growth from servicing the installed base and the continued Abu Dhabi provide the foundations for further improvement in 2008. success of our improvement initiatives will underpin further profit progress in the year.
Defence, Nuclear & Gas Division The Clear Liquid speciality businesses continued to perform well with excellent progress at our operations in Missouri, California and Utah Revenue from the Defence, Nuclear & Gas Division increased 10% to as a result of continued buoyant domestic demand and the increased 117.6m 2006: 107.3m and produced an operating profit, before geographic reach of the Group.
intangibles amortisation and exceptional items, of 10.4m against a prior year of 10.0m.
Input in 2007 decreased by 53% to 84.0m Weir Gabbioneta, our downstream oil business, performed exceptionally against the exceptional level of orders in the previous year.
well and clearly gained from strong market conditions and a two year investment in the Weir Production System.
Productivity and plant Our liquid gas operation, Weir LGE, is the market leader in the design, throughput improved dramatically, underpinning a year of substantial project management and commissioning of facilities for the shipbuilding growth in revenue and profit.
The downstream oil market in Europe and and onshore storage of liquid gas.
In 2007, revenue grew 13% to 65.8m the Former Soviet Union benefited from the continued high price of oil compared with 58.1m in the previous year.
The majority of growth during which allowed Weir Gabbioneta to equal the exceptional level of bookings the year was due to the successful achievement of predetermined milestones achieved in 2006. on new ship contracts which had been booked previously.
The disposal of the Weir Pumps Glasgow operation for a consideration of The defence and nuclear businesses delivered an increase in revenue and 45.5m resulted in an exceptional gain of 26.0m being reported for the operating profit.
Order input at 72.2m was 10% below 2006 due to last year.
The business will, however, remain on the Weir owned Cathcart site years award of the 38m Spanish defence contract.
Revenue grew 5% to until the early part of 2009 following which the site will be sold in 51.8m compared with 49.2m in the prior year.
We remain confident of a prearranged deal with Cala Homes.
securing a number of significant opportunities in the defence and nuclear activities in 2008.
The medium term outlook for Clear Liquid and the oil & gas, power and related general industrial markets remains positive and this, when coupled The outlook for the defence markets in the UK, Australia and Canada, with our plans for ambitious operational improvement, provides a solid which are all key markets for Weir defence products, remains encouraging platform for further progress in 2008. and the decommissioning activities in the UK nuclear market provide a positive outlook for 2008.
The shipbuild market is fully committed which will limit Weir LGEs future order book.
Profitability in 2008 will be tied to Engineering Services Division delivery of orders already secured and should provide the gas business with broadly equivalent results in the year ahead.
Input from Engineering Services increased 8% to 250.6m 2006: 232.9m.
Revenue grew 4% to 231.4m 2006: 221.7m, producing an operating profit, before intangibles amortisation and exceptional items, 2008 Outlook of 18.5m up 41% when compared with 2006.
This reflects the benefits of our 2006 restructuring initiatives in the UK, USA and Middle East.
In 2008, the Engineering Products Division is expected to deliver growth The divisions operating margin of 8.0% exceeded our expectations in revenue and profits when compared to 2007. and is expected to progress further in 2008.
The Engineering Services Division is forecast to deliver margin and profit growth in 2008.
In the UK, input grew 5% to 74.2m 2006: 70.9m with new hydro orders contributing to solid growth in our power generation activities.
The Defence, Nuclear & Gas Division is positioned to deliver equivalent Rationalisation of the number of UK Service Centres, which was completed revenue and profit as achieved last year and joint ventures are also in 2006, underpinned the 2007 results and this is expected to provide expected to continue their good contribution.
further improvements in the year ahead.
The Group is in good financial condition with a robust order book which Our Middle East business grew input by 15% to 28.9m 2006: 25.1m supports our continuing level of confidence in our outlook for the year with significant new orders booked in oil services.
Our joint venture service ahead.
By remaining on course and capitalising on our position in strong operations in Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi continued to benefit from end markets we are confident in achieving the Reuters market consensus strong market conditions in their regions and contributed 3.4m of for 2008, which at 4 March 2008 projected profit before tax for continuing operating profit for the Group compared with 2.4m in 2006. operations of 140m.
The Canadian operation had another successful year, benefiting in particular from continued buoyant market conditions and Weirs growing position in the oil sands sector.
In the USA, the 2006 closure of our loss making service centres resulted in the remaining United States businesses contributing positively to the divisions results in 2007.
The Australian operations performed well in the year, growing both revenue and profit when compared with 2006.
Our investment in larger facilities in Western Australia, which came on-line in the first half, made Mark Selway a solid first time contribution in the year.
