Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives Report Trevor Bish-Jones In the 53 weeks ended 3 February 2007, total Group revenue from continuing operations was 2,737.0 million.
This represents an increase of 4.0 per cent.
There was a marked contrast between the performance of the Retail business and that of our Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing businesses.
Overall Retail sales decreased by 5.5 per cent as we continued to experience decline in core markets and increasing competition.
Sales in the Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing businesses increased by 29.7 per cent as our customer base outperformed the market and we saw the benefit of acquisitions made during the year.
Adjusted profit from continuing operations before taxation, exceptional items, adjustment for fixed rental uplifts and amortisation of certain intangible assets was 21.8 million.
The results have benefited from a review of accounting methodologies, which improve profits by 9 million.
In addition, there have been a number of one-off costs and benefits, which approximately offset each other.
These changes are fully detailed in the Financial Review.
The results reflect a highly challenging retail environment, a year of investment in our multichannel capability and store estate and a year of change for our Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing business.
Retail During the year, like-for-like Retail sales fell by 6.6 per cent.
The adjusted loss from the continuing Retail operations was In the 53 weeks ended 12.9 million against a profit in the prior year of 17.1 million.
3 February 2007, total Group It is obviously disappointing that Retail moved into a loss.
The key driver was not failure to control margins or costs but rather the revenue from continuing underlying sales performance, which was worse than anticipated.
operations was 2,737.0 A combination of factors held back the sales performance, the most material of which were: a marked decline in our share of the million.
This represents an music market, coupled with significant price deflation: continued increase of 4.0 per cent.
expansion of the supermarkets into non-food markets: and declining levels of high street footfall particularly in the summer.
Across the categories, trading performance was variable.
The strongest area was the Toys and Stationery business unit.
Here, absolute sales increased year-on-year, reflecting a gain in market share and evidencing the value of a differentiated product offer.
Our Chad Valley brand continues to underpin performance.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive 8 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives Report The weakest sales performances were in the Entertainment Group KPIs Retail Margin basis points improvement sectors and the Confectionery product categories.
A recurrent 2006 07 50 40 40 20 105 theme in these markets is the increasingly commoditised nature 2005 06 50 40 40 20 50 of the product.
A chart CD or a Christmas tin of confectionery 2004 05 50 40 40 50 provides a very visible price point to customers where retailers 2003 04 50 40 50 50 50 can offer little or no differentiation.
As a consequence, these 2002 03 50 types of product are used selectively to give a headline price from which a retailer hopes to convey an overall perception of low prices.
This dynamic has resulted in significant retail price Group KPIs Retail Shrinkage deflation compounded by volume decline in some markets.
m The opportunity going forward is to reduce exposure to these 2006 07 36.5 types of markets and further differentiate our product offering.
2005 06 36.3 2004 05 42.2 When considering the Entertainment markets it is important 2003 04 41.8 however not to view all formats in the same way.
The music 2002 03 47.7 market is the most challenged not only because of increasing 2001 02 53.2 commoditisation but also from the impact of digital downloading and sales through internet retailers.
The overall DVD market continues to show volume growth and should benefit from the Like-for-like Sales stimulus of High Definition formats.
In this market we accepted a loss in share as we chose to compete selectively on the major new releases over the Christmas period.
-6.6% At the start of the 2006 07 financial year, we expected that both Sony and Nintendo would launch new Games formats in the autumn, with good product availability expected at Christmas.
This proved not to be the case, with Sony delaying PS3 until March 2007 and Nintendo launching Wii in November with Service Centre Calls Received insufficient product to meet demand.
Despite these factors, across the year our Games share has grown and gives us a good base from which to capitalise on what we expect 846,000 to be a growth market in 2007.
Of all Entertainment markets, Books has been the most predictable and less exposed to the vagaries of the technology 90.0% cycle, whilst consistently delivering annual sales growth of 23 per cent.
The Books offer in Woolworths was expanded during Service Level the year and produced good year-on-year sales increases off a small base.
The Woolworths Customer Support department handles Apart from Toys and Stationery, two other categories which all customer enquiries and complaints for all stores and generated more cash profit than the prior year were Clothing also our websites.
With the launch of the Big Red Book and Electrical and Outdoor.
The Clothing performance reflects in autumn 2006 the number of contacts increased significantly the strength of the Ladybird brand which benefited from the from over 200,000 in 2005 06 to over 800,000 in 2006 07, whilst a high level of service has been maintained.
introduction of Ladybird shops into 92 stores in the autumn.
Since the relaunch, volume market share on clothing has started to grow.
In Electrical and Outdoor, it has been primarily the performance of Outdoor that led to the increased cash contribution.
This is due to a number of factors: firstly, the very hot weather over the summer and secondly the success of the multichannel strategy, which enabled us to offer what can be very large items such as swing sets and trampolines.
Sales of Electricals were disappointing.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive 9 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives Report The Home area was relatively encouraging and is benefiting in Group KPIs Store Self-audit particular from higher availability levels in standard listed basic Compliance points score out of 100 2006 07 77.4 lines, following work on the supply chain.
During the year we 2005 06 74.9 have continued to invest in and develop the Retail business to The store self-audit is a scheme to check that our stores improve the underlying strength of our operational capability are compliant with Company procedures and also external and customer offer, to set us up well for the future.
factors such as trading standards and health and safety issues.
During 2006 07 the average store score has increased by 3.3 per cent to 77.4 as store standards Multichannel continue to improve.
An area of particular focus continued to be the enhancement of our multichannel capability.
During the year we introduced new capabilities which allow customers to have access to over 260,000 products which are now available to be ordered either Group KPIs Retail Stock at home or in-store with delivery to either the customers home or m 2007 290.6 for collection in-store.
This service has been very well received by 2006 298.6 customers and in our peak week the service generated 155,000 2004 05 orders and 6.4 million of sales.
Sales were driven in particular by the first Big Red Book, our new catalogue that featured 5,000 products.
As this part of the Woolworths proposition was new Group KPIs Mystery Shopper Service standards out of 100 to customers, it was important to provide a good first experience 2006 07 76.4 of the service.
To facilitate this, we incurred some additional costs 2005 06 73.3 of circa 45 million on new warehouse capability and supporting All stores receive regular visits from mystery shoppers.
These extra costs will not recur in 2007 08.
This allows us to gain a true reflection of how our stores are For the full year, our multichannel sales were 77.2 million and performing and to benchmark our service standards.
The it is on this base that we build in 2007 08.
Christmas cycle is a key review to ensure the stores are ready for the busy Christmas trading period, so an average increase of 4.2 per cent demonstrates improved customer service Store Refurbishment during our busiest period.
We have continued to make significant investment in the store estate.
This year saw the effective completion of the 10 10 store refurbishment programme.
During the year we refitted a further 93 Group KPIs Transport stores bringing the total number of stores to 203.
The sales uplift Vehicle distance kilometres millions from these 93 stores was 4 per cent ahead of the control group.
2006 07 27.2 We have now reached a position where the majority of the larger 2005 06 30.5 and medium size stores in highly competed markets have been refitted.
This has been a necessary action as non-refitted stores looked increasingly dated as the rest of the high street is Group KPIs Transport upgraded.
Going forward, aside from the obvious customer Fuel consumed litres millions benefit of better looking, easier to shop stores, our performance 8.0 2006 07 will benefit from reduced pre-opening costs of circa 5 million 2005 06 8.8 and reduced levels of maintenance capital reflecting the improved In evolving the supply chain, vehicle mileage has been condition of the estate.
reduced by 10.8 per cent and fuel consumption has decreased by 9.1 per cent.
This has been achieved through better vehicle utilisation and the use of double-deck trailers.
The 5 5 programme for smaller stores continued to evolve during the year.
Many of the learnings from the early 5 5 conversions were introduced across the entire estate.
Indeed the entry into multichannel and the use of catalogues was the original basis for the 5 5 concept.
The performance of the most recent generation of 5 5 stores is delivering an uplift of 5.5 per cent against the control stores.
This is in part due to the introduction of intensified planograms and reallocation of space.
As with the multichannel offer, we endeavour to identify ways to access these benefits on a chain-wide basis that does not require significant capital expenditure or time delay.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive 10 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives Report A further development of our customer proposition has been trialled in four stores where we have completely focused the offer on Childrens products.
In what we term Kids, we have endeavoured to do this in a way that provides a more exciting store environment.
The trial has provided us with a lot of learning in terms of what customers respond to.
As with 5 5, there are some clear lessons which we plan to roll out to as many stores as possible during 2007.
Evolving the Supply Chain Given the changing demands of customers and the need to deploy stock in the most effective manner, we continue to work hard to evolve our physical distribution network.
Ultimately, the network will need to deliver, cost effectively, the ability to move an individual customer-ordered item alongside bulk replenishment orders with increased frequency.
We are beginning to see the benefits of the systems and distribution network changes we have made.
Stock levels have on average been 5.1 million below the prior year whilst availability has been improved.
We plan to rationalise the network further and access some step changes in cost levels.
Keeping costs controlled during the year was an important theme particularly as sales were weak.
Total comparable costs increased by 12.4 million, reflecting cost increases in some areas such as rents, rates and energy, where there was little management action that could be taken to mitigate increases.
These three cost lines accounted for 12.5 million of the increase partly offset by net cost savings in other areas.
Stock levels were well controlled during the year particularly in light of the sales shortfall.
This was achieved on the back of improved information systems and the introduction of more robust control processes.
It was not just the level of stock that was improved but also stock quality.
Improved stock control was also a factor in helping to improve gross margin delivery in the business.
Total gross margin improved by 105 basis points following a series of initiatives across all business units.
Of the total gain, 19 basis points are due to the mix effect of reduced sales in Entertainment.
The rest of the gain reflects better cost price and other margin support negotiation, sourcing more product from our established Hong Kong and recently opened Shanghai offices and reducing exposure to markdown through more accurate forecasting.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive 11 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives Report The phasing of the margin gain across the year saw margin flat in Group KPIs EUK Unit Handling Cost the first half and an improvement in the second half of 190 basis points.
We thus enter the new year with the benefit of a higher run rate on our margin as compared to last year.
Summarising -9.3% our Retail performance, it has to be said that the underlying sales reduction in and profit numbers are disappointing.
It was a year in which we radically enhanced our customer offer albeit with some attached pence per unit one-off costs.
Looking forward, we can see further opportunity to enhance our efficiency but we will need to make progress on handling cost driving the sales line.
The investment in our multichannel capability will assist this, as will taking the lessons from the 5 5 stores and the Kids initiative.
Group KPIs 2entertain DVD Rankings Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing source British Video Association This has been a transformative year in the Entertainment TV Genre Ranked 1st Wholesale and Publishing businesses where we have been able Sports and Fitness Genre Ranked 2nd to enhance materially the underlying quality of and prospects for Special Interest Genre Ranked 2nd the division.
Total adjusted profits for this part of the Group fell 5.9 per cent.
This reflects stable profitability from 2entertain, our joint venture with BBC Worldwide and a similar level of releases of historic accruals to the prior year.
The adjusted profits of Entertainment UK together with THE and Bertram from their respective dates of acquisition, after a 2.4 million provision in relation to Music Zone a THE customer which went into administration in January 2007 were down 2.7 million on the previous year.
This reflects a very active year in which the impact of improved trading terms granted to retain the Tesco business until April 2007 were largely offset by growth and efficiency improvements.
Entertainment UK EUK At the start of the financial year EUK was grappling with the confirmed termination of the core supply contract with Tesco in April 2007.
With Tesco then representing over 40 per cent of EUKs turnover there were potentially far reaching consequences attached to this change.
As a result, a key focus in the past year has been to replace the Tesco business.
We have sought to do this by widening both the customer base and spread of markets in which we operate.
Three pivotal actions now place us in a position where we have succeeded in creating a much broader customer base, a significant exposure to the growing Books business and replaced all the Tesco sales volume.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive 12 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives Report Firstly, the acquisition of Total Home Entertainment THE in Now in its second full year of trading, the joint venture is well September 2006 gave access to a significant number of new past its integration period and is increasingly looking to new customers and an entre into primary distribution.
We continue to forge relationships with the best acquisition of Bertram Group in January 2007.
Bertram is a large of the independent production base.
International sales and books wholesaler servicing most sectors of the market including revenues have also progressed well rising by 16.7 per cent.
library services and international markets.
Finally, securing This remains an area of opportunity, particularly where broadcast a contract to buy and supply product for Virgin Retail for a programming is reaching wider audiences and driving DVD sales.
three-year term with effect from May 2007.
Outlook The above acquisitions and contract win now offer the opportunity We enter 2007 having completed a number of major investments.
to rationalise the physical infrastructure of the business and We can see opportunity both in the multichannel arena and in the thereby access an array of combination benefits.
Planning for chain-wide deployment of learnings from our store development this is now well under way.
With tight control of costs and a higher gross margin, this provides the opportunity to drive improved financial performance This activity has required considerable management focus in the retail business, notwithstanding the challenging retail and it is to the credit of the EUK and THE operational teams environment which we expect to continue.
that they have continued to maintain good levels of service to existing customers.
They have done this at a time when sales for For EUK the agenda for the coming year is clear.
It must the year have continued to grow.
Total third-party EUK and THE manage the permitted integration of the acquired businesses, sales in 2006 07 were 861.4 million, an increase of 33 per cent the Virgin contract and the departure of Tesco.
This will result 8.3 per cent excluding THE.
EUK continues to develop its in some one-off costs to deliver synergy benefits.
2entertain digital capability and now has some 600,000 tracks on its digital continues to trade robustly.
Revenues generated from digital downloading remain small.
The relationship with the jukebox network operator, Sales for the short seven-week period to 24 March 2007 are Inspired, continues to develop with 1,290 boxes installed and reasonably comparable to the prior year.
In the period, Woolworths plans to increase this to 2,700 by 2008.
The immediate challenge like-for-like sales were up 0.8 per cent.
We will provide a further facing EUK is the realisation of permissible combination benefits update on trading in our Interim Management Statement at the from its acquisitions in a manner that protects customer service time of our AGM in June.
Over the longer term we will continue to build EUKs position in providing retailers with supply chain solutions in markets where there is a clear need for a point of consolidation.
Sales have grown slightly to 194.9 million and dividend flow from the joint venture Trevor Bish-Jones increased to 11.6 million.
There was a reduction in sales achieved Chief Executive by the Demon Music Group business, where price erosion in the 27 March 2007 full price new release market ate into Demons core mid price market.
The Christmas DVD performance was evenly spread across the release schedule without a clear runaway success.
The absence of a runaway success exposes an attractive feature of the rights that 2entertain has access to.
The business has secured access to some enduring franchises that will sell over a sustained period of time.
Examples are Dr Who, the Planet Earth documentaries and Top Gear.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive 13
