CHIEF EXECUTIVE OUR STRATEGY Chief executive Our strategy Keith Clarke We are focused on answering increasingly complex questions.
Plan, Design, Enable is what we do.
We now have a focused balance sheet which could position us well for acquisitions, company, extremely well positioned to both improve our our focus is on organic growth with excellence as the driver.
consultancy services and continue to grow in a whole range of With selective bolt-on acquisitions to supplement, it is vital sectors where our depth in design, engineering and planning we keep our ethos clearly intact as we continue to grow in skills can be brought to bear.
The complexity of our client both capability and size.
Our size means we must continue capital programmes continues to increase and skills from to decentralise and build local management strengths and all our business segments are absolutely key to our ability simultaneously glue the Group together to allow not only to address them successfully.
Internal boundaries are being staff mobility and flexible career development within the eroded to enable greater collaboration by people across whole Group, but also to ensure resources are focused teams, business segments and countries.
on projects that transcend business segment boundaries.
Identity and Excellence is our shorthand for how we are The protocols we applied to the Dubai Metro project have taking the Group forward.
It is about keeping the balance been an excellent first example of how we wish to achieve between our development of technical and design skills, staff this as a matter of course.
retention and recruitment, generation of cash, the winning A significant challenge for us is to continue to attract of the work we want to have and, most importantly, the talented people to the Group and to retain them.
We are successful completion of the work we have won.
All must establishing links with academia and are looking to recruit be continually kept in balance as the Group goes forward.
a broader cross-section of talent and experience.
We are But the last point is absolutely fundamental.
also accelerating recruitment in our Global Design Centres We have successfully done this for the past three years and in Bangalore and Sharjah not to save costs, but to enable are confident growth will continue to be the consequence us to recruit some of the brightest engineers in the world of this strategic focus.
While we continue to have a strong to our organisation.
It will be a far greater impact than the advent of Computer Aided Design CAD or climate change.
The need to move rapidly towards a sustainable society will introduce extra complexity.
This is not about bolt-on green initiatives, nor offsetting, but introducing at the very start of the conceptual planning of all projects whether buildings, utilities, urban design or infrastructures a different set of values.
Atkins with its breadth and depth of skills is ideally placed to tackle such complex projects if we keep to our strategy of Identity and Excellence.
Within this context and exciting future we must not lose sight of leadership on health and safety, and not just Atkins staff but of the construction industry as a whole.
To conclude, we have a great position, good markets, opportunities to lead change and a proven track record with a strong reputation.
Keith Clarke, chief executive 26 June 2007 WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE NINE BUILDING DEFENCE ENVIRONMENT FACILITIES MANAGEMENT FLOODING & COASTAL GEOTECHNICS HEALTH & SAFETY MANUFACTURING POWER PUBLIC SECTOR RAIL RAIL BRIDGES ROAD ROAD BRIDGES TELECOMS TRANSPORT PLANNING TUNNELLING WASTE WATER
