ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Chief Executive Officers review Our aim is the radical improvement of business processing.
We are a powerful force for change, bringing better service, cost savings and an entrepreneurial culture to everything we do.
Hence our motto Xchanging cost for profit.
Our strategy technology infrastructure, and in 2008 we Xchanging cost for profit is a tough will continue to bring service innovation to challenge, because we work for some of the our customers.
worlds most highly regarded organisations, who set high performance benchmarks.
Europe provides a significant opportunity Increasingly, blue-chip companies are for expansion turning to Xchanging for delivering radical Germany is an important market for improvements in their business processing.
In 2007, we added the Allianz Global Investors retail investment account Xchangings strategy is based on rapid growth management partnership to our existing and highly efficient production.
Growth is vital securities processing platform.
Germany is for economies of scale and an international Europes largest economy where Xchanging footprint.
Efficient production is essential to has established a leading position in business meet customers demands for lower costs and process outsourcing BPO.
Banking and better quality of service, whilst at the same insurance consolidation coupled with a time generating a fair return.
pressure to reduce costs point to the need for radical improvement of business processing Rapid growth that Xchanging offers.
Other Continental We have grown rapidly since our birth in 1999.
European expansion is encouraging, building This trend continued in 2007 across all our on our securities processing, asset businesses.
We have consolidated our position administration processing and procurement internationally in seven major countries.
In particular, we expect further 2008, we expect to add volume in these expansion in France in 2008, in addition to countries.
We are also targeting growth into our recent acquisition in January 2008 of new geographies when the opportunity arises.
Mercuris SA, a Paris-based procurement outsourcing services company.
Customer service innovation Xchanging brings a distinctive partnering Increasing US and Asian presence proposition for handling business processing In 2007, we achieved the first US complexity.
Thats why Aon chose us to be implementation of our broking software their service provider.
Complementing our product at Collins.
With an established base Partnering offering are our Outsourcing, of over 20 software products customers Products, Straight Through Processing and throughout the USA, we have a firm base David Andrews Business Support offerings.
During 2007, from which to extend into our other business Chief Executive Officer we have introduced new services, such as processing offerings in 2008.
Our insurance Chief Executive Officers review 3 XCHANGING PLC Chief Executives review continued products business also extended into China successfully transferred complex banking Our strategy during 2007.
We see opportunities to extend securities processing from Germany and our presence further during 2008 in the insurance processing for the London insurance Grow existing worlds fastest growing regional economy.
market to our processing centre in India.
In platforms 2008, our expertise in balancing workloads Leading the way in commercial insurance will enable us to maximise capacity usage, Add new Xchanging continues to build on its strong thereby reducing costs while at the same time platforms position in commercial insurance.
Low cost leading the move from paper-based to electronic producer processing in the London insurance market.
Processing innovation Xchanging is now processing over 50% of in Xchanging is a pioneer in how to optimise scope claims and premiums electronically, and and standardise production.
We formalise we will see this increase in 2008.
Spearheading our know-how into the Xchanging Way global insurance market reform has led us as a comprehensive methodology for better, far afield as Shanghai and Bermuda in 2007. cheaper business processing.
Working in This momentum will accelerate in 2008. harness with the Judge Business School, Cambridge University, we are constantly Biggest in procurement in Europe and developing a combination of software and 7 countries consolidating HR in the UK production techniques to achieve productivity Where Xchanging has The 2007 Everest survey placed Xchanging and quality improvement.
processing centres as the largest indirect spend procurement operator in Europe, with a 30% market Technology innovation share in this most rapidly growing business Xchanging is at the centre of the electronic 4,255 processing segment.
In addition we have processing for complex insurance markets.
made significant strides in growing our In 2007, we introduced a fully electronic Number of employees HR and payroll offerings to the NHS.
claims handling environment for the London insurance market which complies with the Low cost production at the heart of new global Accord standards.
This has 30% our strategy required close co-operation with the 400 Our aim is long-term competitiveness and London market participants, regulators and European market share in indirect spend procurement increased profitability, through low cost other suppliers.
production for a given standard of service.
At the heart of our strategy is the creation Our people make it happen of world-class processing centres, operating Radical improvement only happens if people 75 million in a standard manner.
These include nearshore want it.
At the heart of our ability to improve New capital raised centres such as Preston and Chatham in processing is the skill and commitment of the UK and Hof in Germany, together with all our people.
We have an extraordinarily offshore centres in India and Malaysia.
motivated group of people internationally.
To mark the success of becoming a public 400 million Global production company and to foster a true entrepreneurial EP deal with Allianz Global Investors In 2007, we have proved how to transfer spirit, we wanted all our employees to have complex processing workloads across our Xchanging shares to participate as owners of centres internationally.
For instance, we have the business.
As a result, each qualifying 57 million Buy out of the BAE Systems shareholding in the HR and procurement partnerships Footnotes Source: Everest Research Institute 2007.
The market share for Europe has been calculated based on the signing region of multi-process procurement outsourcing contracts signed as of August 2006.
4 Chief Executive Officers review ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 employee received 200 shares in the Company drive forward our international position in Xchanging milestones from my personal shareholding.
The scheme 2008, for the benefit of our shareholders, 1999 Xchanging founded by David Andrews.
was a real success with a 95% uptake across staff, customers, suppliers and the the UK, Germany, India, the United States, communities we operate in.
2001-2003 The first Enterprise Partnership EP France, Australia and Malaysia.
with BAE Systems for HR services.
In conclusion, may I thank John Robins for 10 year EP with Lloyds and the Investing in leadership and skills training his expert guidance as Chairman since International Underwriting In 2007, our people education programme Xchangings earliest days, John Bramley who Association.
has delivered over 40 courses, with 8,000 helped found Xchanging, David Hodgson who 10 year EP with BAE Systems for days of education.
In support of this, we has supported us from inception and Friedrich procurement.
have conducted self training and work-place Carl Janssen for his counsel in Germany.
In so 10 year EP with Lloyds for claims training.
2007 saw the first full year of our many ways we will miss the unstinting service administration.
graduate programme which we are expanding they have given to Xchanging over the years.
Our second leadership training for I am most grateful to them as highly valued Acquired RebusIS.
success programme was launched in 2007 and business colleagues and friends for seeing us 12 year EP with Deutsche Bank in securities processing.
promises to develop equally strong leaders.
Outsourcing contracts with United Biscuits, Boots the Chemists, Citi and In 2008, we are instigating a programme for Sal.
experienced executives as part of our active 2006 plan for succession to the most senior 10 year EP with Aon Limited.
We will also be adding David Andrews Acquired Landmark Consulting and a productivity improvement training module Chief Executive Officer, Xchanging plc Ferguson Snell & Associates Ltd. for production supervisors in support of the Outsourcing contracts with National Xchanging Way.
We plan to enhance our Australia Group Europe, Liberata and BAE Systems Australia.
Xchanging values education and awareness Partnership with University Hospital across our broadening international footprint.
Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust for All this, to develop our most important longHR services to the NHS.
2007 Purchased BAE Systems 50% Outlook and 2008 emphasis Enterprise Partnership interests for 57 million.
The market for BPO is still in its infancy.
The size of outsourcing arrangements are Listed on the London Stock Exchange and entered the FTSE 250. increasing as customers gain confidence in Seventh EP contract with Allianz BPO.
So, the market outlook is encouraging, Global Investors.
and we can therefore look forward to Outsourcing contracts with SELEX sustainable growth as companies look for GALILEO for HR services and a cost and service advantage.
Expansion of Insurance sector to Becoming a public company and entering the China and further into the USA.
FTSE 250 in June 2007 was an important step in our journey to become the leading global pure play business processor.
With the successful flotation under our belt, we will Chief Executive Officers review 5
