Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Chief Executives review Delivering global growth BAE Systems once again performed well in 2007.
Each of the four business sectors delivered good profitability underpinned by good programme schedule and cost performance across the Group.
Mike Turner Chief Executive Performance against top ten objectives for 2007 Objective What we have achieved The Board reviews and updates the Group strategy 1.
Meet financial The Group performed well and delivered its annually.
Our strategy is to deliver sustainable targets financial plan for the year and a strong five-year growth in shareholder value by being the premier business plan was presented to and agreed by global defence and aerospace company.
this context the Chief Executive and the Executive The Group continued to embed the principles 2.
Ensure Committee agree the Group strategic objectives, the of good governance, values, policies and application processes that guide our work and behaviour, of mandated business portfolio actions and the top ten objectives with a clear system of delegated authority business for the executive team each year.
The following across the Group.
processes summarises achievements against the 2007 top 3.
Further increase Programme execution is central to the Group ten objectives.
The top ten objectives for 2008 management and a key determinant of customer satisfaction.
focus on Both schedule and cost performance improved are set out on page 11. programme in 2007 and will continue to be a focus of execution management attention, building on the excellent progress in recent years.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information BAE Systems once again performed well in 2007, demonstrating the is the very strong growth in the land systems business in recent 1 significant fundamental strengths and quality of the business.
Following the earlier acquisitions of Alvis in 2004 and United 2 increased by 22% to 1,477m on sales of 15,710m, up 14% Defense in 2005, the acquisition of Armor Holdings, Inc. in 2007 has 3 compared with 2006.
Underlying earnings per share increased 30% established BAE Systems as having a clear leadership position in the to 31.0p for the year.
The Group had net cash of 700m at year end, land sector.
having invested $4.5bn 2.2bn excluding fees in the acquisition Our multi-home market business focus continues to generate of Armor Holdings, Inc. during the year.
opportunities for growth, especially in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Each of the four business sectors delivered good profitability with where the Group has a growing home market position.
return on sales exceeding 8.5% in all sectors.
This profitability United States stems from good programme cost and schedule performance BAE Systems is a valued, trusted and high-performing part of the US across the Group.
defence industrial base and is one of the top ten largest defence Underlying this performance are principles of ethical conduct, good companies in the US.
governance, our values and policies and processes that guide the In the US, the Group is a market leader in advanced information Groups business and the behaviour of its people, with a clear system technology, intelligence analysis, geospatial exploitation software of delegated authority within a One Company approach.
BAE Systems and the development of knowledge-based systems.
In addition, is determined that the business policies and processes mandated BAE Systems continues to see strong demand for sophisticated across the organisation align with global best practice.
electronic warfare and protection systems, and in its support solutions BAE Systems is a global company with a strategy currently focused business the ship repair facilities have remained fully utilised.
Together these home markets were In the land systems sector, further contracts to reset Bradley combat 2 responsible for generating 85% of Group sales in 2007 2006 84%.
vehicles and other US tracked vehicles to as new condition were The Group is benefiting from a well-executed strategy with good awarded, providing extended visibility of throughput at the current profitable growth generated from substantial business operations in high level of activity.
In addition to the high volume of reset activity, its home markets and especially the United States.
A notable success strong demand for vehicle upgrades with new digital systems Objective What we have achieved Objective What we have achieved 4.
Grow US The Group is achieving success growing in the US, 8.
Demonstrate The Group continues to identify and benefit from businesses with 19% organic growth and the acquisition of a commitment opportunities to work together and share best Armor Holdings, Inc. in 2007. to partnering practice across the Groups global businesses.
Constraints to technology sharing between the 5.
Continue to Progress in implementing the Defence Industrial UK and US remain but in June 2007 the US implement the Strategy in the UK was made, which will deliver President and UK Prime Minister signed a defence UK Defence combined benefits of more capability and lower technology treaty.
Once ratified by the US Senate, Industrial cost for the UK customer and acceptable returns for this would mark a significant step forward towards Strategy industry through long-term partnering agreements.
Develop The business in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia The Group is successfully implementing its 6.
Progress the existing and is moving forward with the established core strategy to develop the six home markets in which business in the new home programme progressing well, in-Kingdom it currently operates and is pursuing opportunities Kingdom of markets investment is ongoing and significant new to establish additional new home markets for the Saudi Arabia business has been achieved.
Focus on key The contract award for 72 Typhoons for Saudi 10.
Demonstrate Underpinning all of the above objectives is an export Arabia was a notable success.
Whilst export leadership at emphasis on leadership throughout the Group to opportunities markets are very competitive, the Group continues all levels achieve continuous performance improvements to address a number of opportunities for exports and embed a high-performance culture.
from each of its six home markets.
1 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 2 including share of equity accounted investments 3 earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and uplift on acquired inventories see note 10 to the Group accounts BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 7 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Chief Executives review continued continues, in part driven by the move in the US to modular forces across sites and businesses globally, including the integration of the requiring the fielding of a common standard of more capable vehicles.
The programme brings together more than 35 years of experience in mine protected wheeled vehicle To complement BAE Systems tracked vehicle position in the US, expertise and highly survivable combat platforms.
the Group has been executing a wheeled vehicle strategy to meet a valuable, near-term, urgent operational requirement for Mine In December 2007, the Group announced the proposed acquisition Resistant Ambush Protected MRAP vehicles.
This has resulted in the of MTC Technologies, Inc.. MTC complements BAE Systems existing establishment of a new assembly facility for the RG33 mine protected readiness and sustainment capabilities in the US.
vehicle in York, Pennsylvania, alongside the Bradley reset facility.
United Kingdom Following the substantial contract award for RG33 MRAP vehicles in The Groups UK-based businesses are performing well with good 2007, manufacturing volume has increased rapidly in the last months programme schedule and cost performance.
This performance of 2007 with the completion of 23 vehicles in October rising to 102 improvement included a recovery to profitable trading for the land in December.
systems business in the UK.
The acquisition of Armor Holdings, Inc. delivered further progress as BAE Systems continues to make progress in developing integrated regards the wheeled vehicle strategy.
The business is a key player in through-life support business in partnering arrangements with the UK the tactical wheeled vehicle market and in the increasingly vital areas MoD and the UKs armed forces.
Benefits are now apparent as some of armour protection and survivability.
With strong demand for its of the earlier programme relationships mature.
For example, the products, notably for the Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles FMTV National Audit Office has concluded that the partnered support and the Caiman mine protected vehicle derivative, the Armor Holdings arrangements for the Tornado combat aircraft have contributed to a acquisition is well on track to deliver our required return on investment.
51% reduction in cost per flying hour and cost savings over the past BAE Systems has worked across its global businesses rapidly to five years of 1.3bn.
BAE Systems is similarly involved in support design, produce and deliver vehicles to protect the armed forces.
for a number of other UK air platforms and is addressing through-life The Groups role on the MRAP programme involves collaboration support for the UKs armoured fighting vehicle fleet.
The Group The market BAE Systems market position US$bn Supplemental budgets in the US to fund overseas Top 10 defence companies in 2007 based on 2006 defence revenues operations, combined with good growth in the 40 underlying US defence budget have contributed 36.0 35 to overall growth in the global accessible defence 30.8 30 market.
US supplemental budgets are not 25 25.0 expected to be maintained but underlying global 23.6 defence expenditure is forecast to continue to grow 20 19.5 18.7 with increasing contributions from the fast-growing 15 13.2 Asian economies.
This expenditure naturally 10 9.9 9.0 7.6 determines where Group attention is focused.
5 The top 15 countries account for 80% of the global 0 total and the US accounts for around 50% alone.
Most of the Groups businesses are focused on the defence industry and are subject both to competition from multi-national firms and to government regulation.
baesyste ms. com Lockheed Martin Boeing BAE Systems Northrop Grumman Raytheon General Dynamics EADS L3 Communications Finmeccanica United Technologies Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information identifies further opportunities to develop such arrangements in air, In Sweden, production of the CV90 infantry fighting vehicle is underway for the Dutch Army, continuing the good export performance of this business.
In Australia, the Group continues to build on its position as a throughThe UK governments commitment to the new Carrier programme life capability partner to the Australian Defence Force, including a in July enabled BAE Systems to enter into a Framework Agreement follow-on multi-year support contract for the Hawk aircraft.
with VT Group for the establishment of a joint venture which would, subject to completion, bring together BAE Systems and VT Groups The selection by Australia of the FMTV as the basis for the Land 121 respective surface warship building and surface warship through-life vehicle programme will generate substantial industrial involvement in support operations.
BAE Systems is also a major subcontractor on the Australian Wedgetail Airborne Early Warning and Control programme, where we Other home markets are jointly engaged with Boeing and the customer to re-baseline Saudi Arabia continues to be an important home market for this programme.
BAE Systems, building on a performance track record established In January 2008, the Group announced the proposed acquisition of over many decades.
Tenix Defence, a leading Australian defence contractor.
The acquisition The large programme of support for Tornado is being maintained and will more than double BAE Systems presence in Australia, making the modernisation of existing assets continues.
In September 2007, it the largest in-country supplier to the Australian Defence Force.
The under the new defence co-operation programme known as Project organisations are an excellent fit and have largely complementary Salam, contracts were signed between the UK government and the programmes and capabilities.
This acquisition is a significant step in Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for the supply of 72 Typhoon aircraft.
the implementation of the Groups strategy to develop as the premier global defence and aerospace company by growing the business in We continue to invest within Saudi Arabia in both the expansion Australia, one of the Groups six home markets.
of the Kingdoms industrial capability and new secure residential accommodation.
The first of two new compounds for our employees In South Africa, the land systems OMC business is achieving growth is now being occupied in Riyadh.
through exports with its RG31 and RG32 mine protected vehicles.
Forecast defence budget by major region Global equipment market US$bn 2007 estimated defence procurement US$bn in constant 2008 prices 1400 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 0 15 30 45 60 75 90 105 120 135 150 Year Rest of World excluding markets inaccessible for business by the Group US including supplemental budgets, excluding Research, Testing, Europe West, Central and Eastern European countries, excluding former Development & Evaluation Soviet Union nations Europe West, Central and Eastern European countries, excluding former Soviet US supplemental budget Union nations US base budget Rest of World excluding markets inaccessible for business by the Group The US represents around 50% of the total forecast global defence spend The US accounts for around 50% of estimated total global procurement in 2008. including equipment, personnel and operating costs to 2010.
Source: BAE Systems internal analysis Source: BAE Systems internal analysis BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 9 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Chief Executives review continued Summary and outlook We have excellent forward visibility and a further year of good growth BAE Systems has a successful track record of identifying and is anticipated in 2008, including a full year contribution from the addressing market opportunities through organic investments and former Armor Holdings business.
In addition, part-year contributions acquisitions.
Following the acquisition of Armor Holdings, Inc. the are expected following the anticipated completion in 2008 of the Group has maintained a strong balance sheet and is performing well.
proposed acquisitions of MTC Technologies and Tenix Defence.
The Group continues to look for further value enhancing opportunities across its home markets and remains focused on delivering good business performance and generating value, to the benefit of customers and shareholders.
The Group is continuing to deliver its strategy with strong financial and programme performance.
It is delivering value for money and capability to its customers and is well positioned for the future with Mike Turner Chief Executive an established footprint in six home markets.
BAE Systems is a quality business based on a strong, well-balanced portfolio and is well positioned to continue to deliver shareholder value in line with our long-term plans.
United States market United Kingdom market the outcome, support for defence spending The defence market in the UK is expected to The US continues to be the most attractive of is expected to remain robust.
all the major defence markets, accounting for become more challenging in the coming years.
around 50% of global defence expenditure in In recent years, US defence spending has Overall defence spending is being held to low markets accessible for business by the Group been buoyed by supplemental budgets aimed levels of real growth, at just over 2% of GDP, see chart on page 9 and approximately 4% of at covering additional defence costs related despite significant ongoing operational GDP.
The US will remain one of BAE Systems to the ongoing operations in Afghanistan and commitments.
Spending on defence key markets, offering programme scale and Iraq.
When the US disengages from these equipment in the UK is under particular high levels of investment in research and operations, the scale of these supplemental pressure, balancing the demands of development.
BAE Systems has continued budgets will probably decline.
procurement with personnel-related costs to grow in the US by leveraging its market and the impact of ongoing operations in leadership positions and introducing new Afghanistan and Iraq.
A high level of activity capabilities that meet customers needs.
due to Urgent Operational Requirements The Group is well placed to support the US UORs has resulted from these operations.
Department of Defense in its likely emphasis on force sustainment and readiness and Implementation of the UKs Defence affordable transformation.
Industrial Strategy DIS is underway against a challenging set of milestones.
The short-term outlook for defence continues BAE Systems continues to work with the UK to be favourable, although growth in US defence MoD to ensure transformation of the spending is expected to slow beyond 2010. business to meet challenging requirements, Politically, the US is now starting the run-up to the next presidential election in November particularly focused on developing Long Term 2008.
Both parties remain supportive of Partnering Agreements LTPAs across air, national security and consequently, whatever land and naval domains.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2008 Executive Committee top ten objectives The Executive Committee has set the following objectives for 2008.
A review of the performance against these objectives will be contained in the Annual Report 2008.
The aim of these objectives is to provide focus for the leadership and engagement of people at all levels of our Company.
Financial targets Meet 2008 financial targets and set 6.
US business Grow our US business including the challenging and realistic longer-term plans execution of planned investments 2.
Develop our Develop our partnering approach to meet 7.
Kingdom of Progress delivery of the Saudi partnering approach our customers capability requirements Saudi Arabia industrialisation plan and further develop business in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Ensure continued quality application of our 3. Business policies mandated business policies and processes 8.
UK Defence Continue to implement the UK Defence and processes Industrial Strategy Industrial Strategy including execution of 4.
Programme Further enhance programme execution our transformation and investment plans execution through schedule and cost performance 9.
Export Progress export opportunities from each 5.
Security Progress development of our security opportunities of our home markets businesses in our home markets Continue to drive performance in safety, 10.
Safety, ethics and ethics and diversity diversity Other home markets The UK governments publication of the DIS Saudi Arabia is, and is expected to remain, South Africa, with one of the best trained version 2 has been delayed into 2008 to take one of the major defence markets in the and equipped militaries in sub-Saharan account of the difficult decisions required world, dedicating up to 10% of GDP to this Africa, is spending between 1.2% and 1.6% in the UK MoDs current Planning Round 08 sector, with a significant part of this spent p. a. of its GDP on defence.
It is currently following the 2007 Comprehensive Spending on external procurement.
An Understanding undergoing a major re-equipment programme Review.
To deliver value for money and meet Document was signed on 21 December as a result of defence procurements current and future equipment needs of the 2005 between the UK and Saudi Arabian approved by the government in 1999. armed forces, the securing of through-life governments, outlining plans to modernise the The Swedish military is also undergoing capabilities of the Saudi armed forces.
These capability management and appropriate reform as it changes from a force for modernisation activities are underway, helping LTPAs will be even more necessary under defence against invasion to one that to develop a greater indigenous capability in difficult budgetary conditions.
is more flexible and mobile.
beginning of this process, defence spending The Australian Government has committed fell from 2% of GDP to 1.4% in 2006.
Over to an increase in defence spending of 3% p. a. the same period there has been government real until 201516, on an annual budget encouragement for the industry to move of A$22 billion.
Its stated preference is to towards greater participation in international maintain a strong local defence capability collaborative programmes.
which will underpin strong market growth.
To enhance its positions in these markets It has also released the Defence Capability and optimise its ability to execute its home Plan 20062016, which outlines the major market strategy, the Company intends to capital equipment outlays over this time frame.
establish home market advisory boards in A total of A$74.6bn is forecast to those markets where it would benefit from be spent on capital investment over the advice focused on in-country business next decade, reflecting the governments development and industrial partnering.
commitment to growth in defence spending.
