Group overview | Group Chief Executives statement Moving forward Financially and operationally this has been a successful year for the Group.
We have completed the acquisition of Wilson Bowden, rapidly integrated the two businesses and are already starting to deliver our synergy targets.
At the same time we have continued to focus on improving our operational efficiency, increasing our investment in land whilst enhancing the capability of the organisation to deliver.
Our performance Integrating the businesses head ofce in Ibstock.
In all, 370 redundancies The profit before tax for the combined Group The integration of Wilson Bowden has have resulted from the acquisition, with an for the year was 427.8m an increase of progressed rapidly ensuring that the expectation of approximately 400 in total.
36.4m 9.3% on a turnover of 3,046.1m combined business will deliver synergies We now expect to deliver at least 60m of 2006: 2,431.4m up 25.3%.
This included and strategic benets as quickly as possible.
synergy savings in the second full year after a profit before tax contribution from Wilson One of the principles of integrating the completion, compared with the earlier Bowden of 63.6m, and a turnover businesses has been to take the best from estimate of 45m.
Savings of at least 30m contribution of 379.6m, for the last two both organisations and this has been carried are expected to be delivered in 2007 8. months of the year.
Ensuring best practice is followed and realising synergies will remain key Our priorities During the year both businesses have priorities for us.
Our objective is to maximise shareholder performed well with strong growth in value by creating great places to live and completions.
Barratt saw completions We now operate under two strong national work that serve the long-term needs of our increase by 6.3% to 15,517 2006: 14,601. brands for housebuilding Barratt Homes customers and their communities.
Wilson Bowden performed strongly and David Wilson Homes.
We have also increasing completions by 19.2% to 2,635 retained Ward Homes based predominantly in To achieve this we will need to continue our in the six months to June 2006: 2,211.
Kent as a strong local brand.
The KingsOak focus on building revenues, improving quality, brand has been discontinued.
All the key service and design, whilst lowering the cost of Tight control of costs has helped us to management teams have been put in place doing business.
deliver an operating margin before and are working successfully to deliver our restructuring costs of 16.7% 2006: 17.0%.
plans going forward with specic focus on Competitive land purchasing is the life blood improving operational performance.
of the Group and last year we invested Forward sales for the Group at 1 July 2007 1,012.7m, signicantly improving our position.
were strong and totalled 1,414m, 14.8% Our regional network of ofces has been We now have a land bank of 5.1 years at ahead of the combined Barratt and Wilson reorganised to create 35 housebuilding current production rates of which 72.2% has Bowden total at 30 June 2006 of 1,232m divisions, each with a strengthened either detailed or outline planning permission.
and 67.3% up on the Barratt total of 845m management team.
With the acquisition of Wilson Bowden we Nine divisional ofces were closed and we are gained important strategic land assets and planning to close both the Group ofce in capabilities which we intend to exploit to the Newcastle and the former Wilson Bowden full to underpin further growth.
We will also Before restructuring costs of 26.2m: restructuring costs of 13.1m related to Wilson Bowden and Barratt Developments PLC 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13.1m related to Barratt have been incurred.
Group overview Group overview | Group Chief Executives statement Forward sales Land bank plots Plots continue to focus on the delivery of land through enabling us to secure more business.
It is not yet clear how quickly the market will the planning process as effectively as possible.
As we put in place the capability to deliver recover but we have to assume that there will higher volumes, we will also seek to ensure be downward pressure on volumes and price The Group now has two of the best known that we do so with a lower cost base.
So in in ation in the short-term.
national house building brands with differing addition to delivering the synergy savings from market positions.
The reputation of these the acquisition, we are also focusing on day-toHowever, the market fundamentals remain brands, together with effective sales day ef ciency improvements.
Looking forward strong with demand continuing to exceed investment, will be critical in maintaining and we have identi ed further areas of improvement supply with the Government intent on growing revenues.
We have now relaunched and set stretching targets for delivery.
stimulating the sector by accelerating land the Barratt Homes brand backed by TV availability.
advertising and a new sales website.
The None of these priorities can be delivered David Wilson Homes brand is bene ting from without the considerable ability of our people In the year ahead the market will continue to the additional rebranding of KingsOak sites.
- from land buying to planning and from change rapidly.
Three areas of particular focus construction to sales.
Over the last year will be: In recent years substantial progress has been we have improved the capability of the Continued investment in the made in improving customer service and last organisation through new recruitment and acquisition of land year 89% of Barratt Homes buyers said they development of our management teams.
would recommend us to a friend, up from We have also introduced a new graduate Further enhancing our urban 85% in the previous year.
However, there is programme and we are now setting out to regeneration capabilities still further progress that needs to be made if improve our apprenticeship scheme, already Establishing leadership in the we are to create a Group that truly places the one of the largest in the industry.
move to zero carbon customer at the heart of its business.
This will be underpinned by the setting of clear targets Outlook for improvements within the remuneration We have already signalled that it would be package of our senior managers.
prudent to assume that the cumulative impact of interest rate increases would result in the During the past year we won numerous awards housing market tightening in 2007 8.
The for the design and quality of the homes and recent credit squeeze has further affected Mark Clare communities we build.
This will continue to be customer sentiment and pressure on lending Group Chief Executive a key priority as it not only underpins sales but institutions, has led to a tightening of lending Barratt Developments PLC also enhances the reputation of the Group criteria and mortgage availability.
26 September 2007 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 07 Group overview | Group Chief Executives statement: Key focus Continued investment in the acquisition of land Barratt Developments PLC 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group overview Group overview | Group Chief Executives statement: Key focus Acquiring land competitively in the right areas is critical for the future success of the business.
We have improved our land position, both in terms of our land bank and our strategic land capability, that will underpin longer-term growth.
We will continue to focus on delivering developments through the planning process as effectively as possible to ensure that the land we Right: Cattle Market, hold is rapidly converted into vibrant new communities.
Below: Great West Quarter, Brentford Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 09 Group overview | Group Chief Executives statement: Key focus Further enhancing our urban regeneration capabilities Right: Axiom redevelopment of Feltham Below: Sarah Jones and her family Barratt Developments PLC 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group overview Group overview | Group Chief Executives statement: Key focus We are a leading force in urban regeneration, breathing Sarah Jones grew up in Feltham but new life into towns and cities 78% of the Barratt moved away as she started her own developments we build are on brown eld land.
However, when she and her has traditionally been strong in regeneration in London partner were looking for a place and the South of England.
We now have a new specialist together she rediscovered Feltham.
regeneration unit covering the North of England and are She loves the new development and winning major new projects that will lead to thousands the change it has made to the whole of new homes together with the social and economic area: so shes now back in Feltham, renewal of the communities themselves.
with her family, and loving the difference it has made.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 Group overview | Group Chief Executives statement: Key focus Establishing leadership in the move to zero carbon Right: Award winning design for the Green House Below: The architects at Gaunt Francis at work on the Green House Barratt Developments PLC 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group overview Group overview | Group Chief Executives statement: Key focus By 2016 new homes in the UK are required to be zero We have now started work on the carbon this will mean major changes in how homes Green House, one of the most are designed and supplied with energy.
We have been environmentally friendly homes ever testing renewable technologies at our EcoSmart Show to be built in the UK.
It will combine Village in Chorley and based on our experience we now the highest standards of energy have low carbon initiatives being installed in over 35 ef ciency with the ability to generate developments across the country including solar thermal electricity within the home itself.
future we will apply the lessons we learn to the wide range of housing we build.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13
