Chairmans and Chief Executive Ofcers statement Overview Mapeley had solid 2007 operating results.
Our underlying business performed well.
Funds from operations FFO, our key measure of underlying performance, grew by 23%.
Milestones FFO growth of 23% from 45.7million to 56.4million Dividend growth of 12% from 168pence per share to 188pence per share Investment property acquisitions of 223.3 million Occupier inertia strategy proving successful with lease extensions and roll-overs Renancing of our 257million revolving credit facility due April 2008 During the first half of the year we acquired 180 million of high quality assets let to Jamie Hopkins Chief Executive officer strong credit tenants all located throughout the UK.
The second half of the year saw us take a more cautious approach to acquisitions, given the changes in the capital markets and the knock-on effects to UK real estate.
We benefited from asset management Creating a sustainable business opportunities arising from the scale and diversity of our estate of some 1,689 assets to provide our shareholders covering 2.4million square metres.
We were able to enhance returns through with a secure income stream rigorous management of our leasehold and long-term value is at portfolio and through our asset management strategies by either disposing of vacant the core of everything we do.
assets or securing new third party income.
Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 10 Our financial performance was reinforced We continue to exploit the competitive Revenue from Government and by the resilience of our income stream advantage we have built by acting as investment grade tenants which was maintained throughout 2007. both landlord and tenant in every major 93% of our income continued to be town and city in the UK.
We manage the derived from government and investment leasehold assets, occupied by our clients, 93% grade corporates such as Microsoft and on a principal basis with the aim of ensuring British Telecom with 70% of our income the rents we are responsible to pay to being subject to xed contractual uplifts.
third party landlords do not grow faster Average lease length We also have a 10 year average lease than the indexed contractual income our length across the portfolio and our vacancy clients pay us.
In addition this insight rate, one of the lowest in the sector, provides us with real data points to best 10 years continues to remain stable at just 3.5%.
position our property interests in each of these towns whether as landlord or Our strategy tenant and also provides us with further Our aim is to be the leading owner and acquisition opportunities.
operator of regional UK real estate let to Occupancy strong credit quality tenants such as the Performance review UK Government.
We enter into property We have a presence in every major town outsourcing contracts with high quality and city in the UK, and, for the most 96.5% counterparties, which usually involve part, operate outside London.
We have a the acquisition of freehold assets, the profitable operating business which runs management of their leasehold interests in tandem with an integrated real estate and often the provision of property-related investment business.
Assets under management services, such as facilities management cleaning, security, maintenance.
We also Given our geographic diversication, acquire property on a direct basis from we are less impacted by the changes in 1,689 the investment market.
occupier property demand seen in Central London.
Rents in the UK regions tend to Our investment strategy is not predicated be more stable with only modest rental on strong rental growth but on owning growth.
The stable nature of these markets assets let to tenants who we believe will works to our advantage in operating our Ofce rental value growth annual % 20 remain in our buildings, which we refer leaseholds as where we are negotiating Central London South East to as occupier inertia.
This applies to both with third party landlords our goal is to 15 Rest of UK our outsourcing contracts as well as our hold rents down in order to minimise our direct property acquisitions.
Our aim is to produce a profitable 10 is to secure high quality income and income over cost spread between the maintain it.
amounts our clients pay us for occupation 5 of a property, versus what we pay out Our occupier inertia strategy was further to the landlords.
For the period since we 0 proven during 2007.
By fully understanding started operating the HMRC and Abbey -5 our tenants occupational strategy and contracts to 31 December 2007 on a like delivering focused and pro-active asset for like, mark to market portfolio basis, -10 Forecast management we are able to keep tenants we have managed to maintain an average in our buildings.
For example, over the increase in rental costs of only 2% while -15 95 97 99 01 03 05 07 09 11 year, 32 leases in our DPI portfolio were receiving a corresponding increase in subject to a break clause or a lease expiry.
Source: IPD, CB Richard Ellis 25 of the 32 leases, representing 95% of rent roll, were extended by tenants.
Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 11 Chairmans and Chief Executive Ofcers statement continued Re-letting of Elphinstone IPDs analysis of our performance in respect We have a large degree of visibility into House, Glasgow, to new of 2006 rent reviews on our leasehold our clients occupational requirements government tenant A six storey modern ofce estate once again demonstrates that we given our day to day relationships and with 15 car parking have beaten the market by experiencing the assistance and advice we contribute spaces, a leasehold asset only 1.4% rental growth on our leasehold to their estate management strategies.
in the Abbey portfolio Lease due for expiry portfolio versus the IPD benchmark of To this extent we have a two to three year in 2015 with annual rent 2.1%.
This continued out-performance pipeline of potential opportunities for of 615,000 creates organic growth for Mapeley and is capital receipt generation.
These capital Abbey exercised its right to vacate this asset early generated by our specialist and dedicated receipts are visible and predictable and by serving the requisite in-house property team.
Our tenacity and provide a solid and recurring source of 12 months notice, to take effect from August 2007 focus on chasing down and minimising organic growth.
From the commencement Mapeley promptly let every penny of cost continues to drive of our outsourcing contracts in 2001 to the 3,133 sqm of ofce returns across our business.
31 December 2007, we have generated space to the Government of Scotland upholding 190.2million 2006: 164.1million from the strong tenant credit During 2007 we generated capital receipts capital receipts.
The benefit of the inherent of the asset of 20.6million which comprised of exibility in our outsourcing contracts Financial effect of the deal was enhanced income 9.1million of asset management receipts enables us to create and manage ows of over the term of the lease and 11.5million of disposal proceeds, returns in this way.
totalling 1,298,212 in line with our budgeted expectations.
Abbey Outsourcing Asset management receipts are generated Since our last valuation at 30 September contract from our leasehold portfolio where we 2007 we have experienced a decline Outsourcing contract closed in 2000 typically receive upfront cash premia in values of 4.3% across our portfolios Transaction included from third party landlords in exchange with the largest fall coming from the freehold and long leasehold for extending leases.
Disposals are made DPI Portfolio which fell by 7.7% and properties as well as rack-rented leasehold when freehold properties become vacant, experienced an adverse yield shift of properties either due to our clients occupational 56 basis points in line with IPDs price index.
Portfolio spread across 520 towns and cities strategies or through an asset management throughout the UK initiative by Mapeley.
Typically, under In 2007 we acquired 23 assets totalling Purchase and leaseback the contractual arrangements of the 223.3million at an average net initial yield agreement of 20 years 595,000 sqm of outsourcing transaction, when a notice of 6.4%.
This brings the total Direct Property accommodation including to vacate an asset is served we receive Investment Portfolio to 996.5million bank branches, ofces 12 months notice.
This allows sufficient with an average net initial yield of 6.9%.
and call centres time to implement our strategy.
A significant purchase during the year was the 62million acquisition of Elinia House in Cardiff, one of three key data centres occupied by BT.
This lease contains xed annual uplifts in rent and runs until 2020.
Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 12 Results and dividend Current trading and outlook During 2007 we achieved growth in In March 2008 we completed the renancing funds from operations of 23.4% enabling of our 257million Revolving Delta an increase in our dividend of 11.9%.
This has been replaced For the fourth quarter, we announced a with a new 152million seven-year term dividend of 47 pence per share.
facility and a separate 60million facility maturing in April 2009.
The balance Our loss before tax of 129.0million was of the repayment was made with cash directly affected by non-cash revaluation from within the business.
However renancing the average total cost of revaluation losses taken to the income borrowing across the Group is 5.7%.
statement do not impact our cash ows.
We expect the strong credit worthiness of People our tenants to support our cashows and We would like to thank all the staff at expect our vacancy rate to remain stable.
Livingston, Scotland, Mapeley for their continued hard work We also expect to continue to enhance Acquisition and focus during 2007.
It is a tremendous the performance of our portfolio by asset DPI Portfolio acquisition for 23.5 million achievement that we were able to produce management initiatives and through Net internal area of these results given the challenging macro a continuation of high success rates for 9,504 sqm environment.
We put this down to the achieving lease roll-overs and re-gears.
Net initial yield of 6.9% Let to Scottish Water with combined efforts and creativity of our people.
lease expiry in 2015 With regard to new acquisitions we are Annual rent of 1,620,000 continually reappraising new opportunities and sources of capital to drive growth.
We will also continue to build our database of assets and have a strong pipeline of acquisition opportunities to exploit, when we feel the opportunity is right.
Wes Edens Chairman Jamie Hopkins Chief Executive officer Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 13
