Chief Executives statement Continued broadening of our investment activities by geography and asset class, and a focus on delivering real value within each specific opportunity, remain critical components of our strategy.
This was a further year of good progress The next elements of our strategy are The Groups strategy is to raise third-party for the Group.
The Groups financial to grow our assets and those we manage money where structurally it is necessary performance was very strong, in terms of on behalf of third parties, as well as to to do so as in the case of Buyouts, or new investment and divestment activity, extend our international reach both where it optimises our shareholders exposure as well as the high level of returns achieved.
directly and through investing in other to a particular asset due to the nature of the At the same time we are able to report funds.
The amount of 3is own investment returns, such as Infrastructure.
These further significant progress in our strategic rose from 1.1 billion to 1.6 billion, an activities can be attractive due to the development, most notably in the scale up increase of 42% on last year.
This rise in new opportunity to earn management, advisory of our Infrastructure business and the launch investment reflects the strategic changes of and performance fees that enhance the of our QPE business line.
the last few years, with the most significant overall level of shareholder return.
Since the increases coming in Growth Capital and end of the year we have announced the Infrastructure on a business line basis, signing of a Memorandum of Understanding Further significant progress and within Growth Capital in Asia on a with IIFCL, a debt financing institution set up in our strategic development regional basis.
by the Indian Government, which will pave the way for 3i to raise a further infrastructure Asia represented 9% of the Groups portfolio fund dedicated to the Indian market.
value at the end of the year, an increase The first element of our strategy is to over last years 4%.
Assuming no change to These developments are also excellent invest in high-return assets.
In this regard, financial markets, we are targeting a further examples of the fourth part of our total return was notable at 26.8%, a figure increase in investment levels over the new strategy, which is to use our balance that was beyond our expectations at financial year, with a contribution from our sheet and resources to develop both the start of the year, not least because QPE business line and further progress in existing and new business lines.
divestment conditions remained attractive Buyouts and Growth Capital.
throughout the period due to favourable With unprecedented liquidity in financing economic conditions and the buoyancy of As a key element of our strategy is to markets, as well as continued significant debt financing markets.
This figure was grow the level of third-party funds change in the shape of the Groups business, well ahead of last years return of 22.5%, under management, it is pleasing to report the last element of our strategy, to principally as a result of both our Buyouts that these rose by 76% last year, increasing continue to build our strong culture and Growth Capital businesses delivering from 1,573 million to 2,772 million.
of operating as one company across exceptional gross portfolio returns on a one This figure includes the third-party element business lines, geographies and sectors, year basis at 53.8% and 47.7% respectively, of our most recent buyout fund, Eurofund V, is critical.
well ahead of our through the cycle targets which in total closed at 15 billion, a significant All of our senior management, and in and last years equivalent figures of 29.4% increase on the13 billion raised for particular our Group Partners, have made it and 26.4%.
their priority to ensure that this unique 3i These results were underpinned by a high Further growth in assets under management culture is nurtured and strengthened, through proportion of realised profits, a consequence came from the launch of 3i Infrastructure informal and formal channels.
We measure of a record level of realisations, which Limited, a 700 million Jersey-based listed our colleagues level of engagement on an at 2.4 billion for the Group, was an infrastructure fund to which the Group annual basis, and the 2007 figure of 87%, improvement on last years previous record contributed assets and cash of 325 million together with other key performance figure of 2.2 billion.
Our Venture Capital and third-party shareholders contributed the measures, is reported on page 11 of this business line improved its performance in the balance of 375 million.
second half, reducing its negative return to 5.6 % for the full year compared to 8.4 % for the first six months.
3i Group plc 06 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders At a time when there is increasing debate Prices are generally high, and so our teams We continue to see good investment about private equity as an asset class, with remain selective in their choice of targets, opportunities in our chosen areas, albeit that concerns being raised with respect to its focused on identifying and then driving, pricing remains high.
Continued broadening stewardship, its transparency and the sources with management, the underlying value of of our investment activities by geography of and sustainability of returns, we have each investment in order to deliver or exceed and asset class, and a focus on delivering chosen to increase yet again 3is own level our return targets.
It is important to keep the real value within each specific opportunity, of disclosure in this report to shareholders.
organisation of our business flexible in order remain critical components of our strategy.
In addition to the point by point disclosure to face these markets.
The formation of Although levels of realisations are expected of progress against our strategy mentioned distinct Infrastructure and QPE business lines to slow, we remain confident of reporting above, we are also giving greater disclosure was consistent with our policy of building further good progress in the delivery of our of the financial and business progress of internal capabilities before building assets.
strategy over the year ahead.
key investments for each of our major We welcome the announced and actual Philip Yea Chief Executive business lines.
listings of other private equity firms, whether 9 May 2007 as management companies, or funds under management.
We believe that this can only We have chosen, yet again, to be beneficial to stock markets understanding increase 3i's level of disclosure of both the sector generally, and their appreciation of the 3i business model in particular.
Just as within the public markets Twelve months ago we announced the there are different companies with different intention to return some 700 million to models, so too within private equity will the shareholders.
At the time we wanted to retain market grow to understand better that sufficient resources to grow our near-term various firms have different strategies, investment levels whilst maintaining strategic some differentiated and others less so.
flexibility as we considered the development of the Infrastructure and QPE business lines.
With these two initiatives now launched, An explicit choice to work and on the back of the excellent rate of in the mid-market realisations over the year, it is possible to recommend a further return of cash without compromising our ambition to grow assets.
3i is defined by an explicit choice to work Markets remain fast-changing.
On the one predominantly in the mid-market, by our hand the drive by major firms to increase spread of assets over 14 countries and five their deal size is expanding the definition different asset classes, and our desire to of the mid-market, which given the ensure that all of our teams nurture and value international spread of 3is network is to our relationships with those outside the our advantage.
On the other hand, there Group in a way that delivers real benefits to is an increase in the number of firms the companies in which we invest.
contemplating investing in the growth capital market on a trans-national basis.
3i Group plc 07 Report and accounts 2007
