DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW BG061 p07-09 vAW.
qxd:Layout 1 17 3 08 18:29 Page 7 Chief Executives statement 7 A strategy that delivers Very positive progress in the development of the Groups long-term growth opportunities.
Frank Chapman Chief Executive I am pleased to report that in 2007 BG Group grow throughout 2007 in line with the Groups delivered another year of good operating integrated approach to capturing value along performance, together with very positive the gas value chain.
Total operating profit progress in the development of the Groups increased by 7% to 247 million.
Our Power Generation, total operating profit distinctive strategy has enabled us to increased by 23% to 130 million, principally capture increased value from our existing due to the consolidation of new subsidiaries.
assets whilst strengthening further the Strategy for success foundations for our next decade of delivery.
I am sure that shareholders will by now Operating performance be familiar with our core strategy a focus As the Chairman notes in his statement, on specic, high value markets and on BG Gr oup has continued to meet its securing competitively priced gas to commitment to deliver value to our connect to those markets.
shareholders, with earnings of 1 783 million It is a strategy that BG Group, as an integrated 2006 1 640 million.
global gas company, is particularly well-placed In Exploration and Production E&P, volumes to deliver: we combine a deep understanding were 220.3 mmboe 2006 219.2 mmboe.
of global gas markets with an excellent track Overall production levels were maintained, record in nding, developing and marketing despite the impact of disposals in Canada reserves.
More importantly, as these results and Mauritania and the shutdown of the UK show, it is a strategy designed to deliver value North Sea Central Area Transmission System to our shareholders over the long term.
CATS pipeline as a result of third-party The need for secure supply to meet the anchor damage.
Operating profit was growing energy needs of both emerging 2 387 million 2006 2 457 million.
and established economies, together with growing public debate about climate change Liqueed Natural Gas LNG performance was particularly strong in 2007.
Global LNG and development priorities, presents a markets continue to be supply-constrained complex business context.
The associated amid accelerating demand from consumer challenges yield opportunities for companies nations.
The Groups focus on the able to move swiftly and which are sufciently development of a exible, global LNG exible and willing to align their objectives portfolio means we are well-placed to supply with those of governments, businesses and markets across the world, and this was communities.
BG Groups successful global reected in 2007 in a 48% increase in total portfolio has been founded on this approach.
operating profit in our LNG business.
The Group now has business interests in a Our Transmission and Distribution T&D total of 27 countries across five continents.
businesses in India and Brazil continued to We have an established presence in a range For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 82.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 BG061 p07-09 vAW.
qxd:Layout 1 17 3 08 18:29 Page 8 Directors Report Business Review 8 Chief Executives statement continued of core territories Brazil, Egypt, India, the Santos Basin, offshore Brazil, found Pacic Basin markets, deploying our exible Kazakhstan, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, the indications of significant volumes of global portfolio to good effect to meet strong UK and the USA and in 2007 made good hydrocarbons in place potentially the demand in the Asia Pacic region.
We continue to expand our global eet, taking headway in developing new sources of value largest new source of oil and gas that the from within our existing portfolio.
There was world has seen for some years.
The Tupi delivery of four new LNG ships during the year.
We also began to deliver the first also positive progress through the year in the structure is at an early stage of appraisal but development of more recent additions to our is now estimated to contain hydrocarbons cargoes under a new long-term supply contract with Equatorial Guinea LNG.
portfolio, such as Nigeria, Norway and Oman.
in place of between 12 and 30 or more billion Additionally, shortly after the period under barrels of oil equivalent.
BG Group has good The Group sanctioned the Quintero review, the Group announced an alliance exposure to this evolving frontier play, with regasication terminal in Chile, with the with Queensland Gas Company Limited in all four wells in the Santos Basin so far initial start-up phase planned for 2009, and Australia.
The two companies will co-operate proving successful, and further exploration the Dragon LNG import terminal in south in the exploration and development of coal drilling still to come.
In the seam gas from the Surat Basin, Australia, USA where the Group imported 55% of all We drilled 20 wells in 2007, with 12 successes, and will also jointly pursue domestic market LNG supplied in 2007 our gas marketing including wells in Bolivia, Brazil, Norway, opportunities and the construction of a new activity was boosted further by the addition Thailand and the UK.
The year saw extensive LNG export facility.
of new capacity rights in the Cypress pipeline, seismic acquisition activity, with surveys in connecting the Elba Island import facility to Taken together, we believe that BG Groups Algeria, Brazil, Canada, China, Libya, Nigeria, downstream markets in south Georgia and Norway, Oman, Trinidad and Tobago and the robust current production base, combined Florida.
In 2007, the US regulatory authorities UK.
We also acquired more than 4 600 square with our strong total reserves and resources also approved terminal expansion and new kilometres of new exploration acreage, with position and positive exploration prospects, pipeline proposals for Elba Island, which are additional licences in Canada, India, Norway, gives us the inherent potential to support intended to extend the Groups capacity Trinidad and Tobago and the UK.
a compound annual growth rate in for downstream marketing in the USA in production volumes of between 6% and In 2007, BG Group made important future years.
8%, right out to 2020. advances in a number of key producing assets.
UK Continental Shelf UKCS BG Group continues to derive value from Energy prices have risen in response to downstream gas demand driven by rapid contribution to Group production volumes increasing global demand.
This, in turn, has was enhanced during the year with the economic growth in leading non-OECD stimulated cost ination as operators seek nations.
Our Transmission and Distribution start-up of the Buzzard and West Franklin to acquire the raw commodities and plant fields.
We made further good progress T&D subsidiaries showed a strong required to capture market opportunities.
In Brazil, in our Karachaganak operations in The Group is well-positioned to face these Kazakhstan, working closely with partners Comgas sales volumes increased by 5%: the challenges: we have a long-life portfolio of business now serves more than 500 000 and stakeholders to agree a new Gas Sales base assets, where incremental development Agreement that will facilitate the sanction customers.
Indias largest private gas is at a lower cost, and we maintain a rigorous of the proposed Phase III expansion project.
company, Gujarat Gas, demonstrated solid capital discipline in our broad portfolio of Investment by BG Group and partners in the growth, and growth continued at Mahanagar opportunities.
We screen all projects against development of the mid-Tapti eld, offshore Gas, which serves Indias economic hub, a wide range of price, cost and production India, was another notable highlight: gas Mumbai.
In our Power Generation segment, scenarios to ensure that our investments production from the Panna Mukta and we acquired an additional gas-fuelled power generate shareholder value.
We will continue Tapti fields has almost doubled over the plant in north-eastern USA a region with to seek innovative ways to manage last five years.
a flexible and accessible power generation procurement, construction and operating market in a further expansion of the costs in the current inationary environment.
In Trinidad and Tobago, the Group secured Groups integrated US gas marketing strategy.
Our aim throughout is to maintain todays agreement for a further 15 years of domestic position as a high value, low cost operator.
gas sales, beginning 2009, from the East BG Groups role as a leading gas company Coast Marine Area ECMA.
is dependent on the safe, swift and Portfolio developments cost-effective application of innovative 2007 was an important year in the Our LNG business performed very strongly responses to the many operating challenges development of our exploration portfolio, through the year, with managed volumes up inherent in our industry.
with notable drilling successes and the 31%.
The Group has been the Atlantic Basin leader for some time: we are now also the acquisition of new acreage.
During the year, That spirit of innovation is acknowledged appraisal drilling in the Tupi discovery in main supplier of Atlantic Basin LNG into in the Chief Executives Awards, our annual www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW BG061 p07-09 vAW.
qxd:Layout 1 15 3 08 08:30 Page 9 9 ceremony highlighting the best of the It is therefore with great regret that I report asset base, combined with a broad spread of technological achievements sustaining the deaths of two contractors during 2007: future opportunities, offering the prospect of BG Groups ongoing success, which in one in a road accident in Kazakhstan and the value creation through the next decade.
This 2007 saw some of the strongest entries second working on the construction of one is underpinned by the skills, experience and in recent years.
focus on delivery of all of my colleagues at of the Groups new LNG ships in South Korea.
In early 2008, shortly after the end of the BG Group.
I thank them for their passion, Corporate Responsibility reporting period, a contractor working on energy and commitment to value creation: As the Chairman explains in his statement, behalf of our Gujarat Gas subsidiary in India they are central to the Groups success.
we believe that Corporate Responsibility CR died following an incident during street is the bedrock of sustainable value creation.
All incidents have been examined Our activities are guided by our Business in detail to assess lessons to be learned.
Principles, which define our commitment to responsible conduct and which set out Group Executive Committee our responsibilities to our people, to the In 2007, we announced changes to the societies within which we work and to the management structure of the global business environment.
Our inclusion in the FTSE4Good to expand our capacity for long-term strategic Frank Chapman index and Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes activity at the most senior levels of the Chief Executive and our Sustainable Investing Leader organisation.
This included the introduction rating in the Goldman Sachs GS Sustain focus of new Senior Vice President roles reporting list are testament to that commitment.
into the Group Executive Committee GEC There is more detail on our CR performance and plans to increase the number of senior on page 38. positions both in the professional functions at Group level and in our country businesses.
Safe and responsible working practices are In parallel with these developments, we also integral to all we do at BG Group.
We expect reorganised the Groups activities within all of our people, myself included, to take three geographic regions in place of five.
personal accountability for ensuring not Taken together, we believe these changes only their own safety but also the safety of will enhance further the Groups ability to others.
We all have a continuous obligation deliver on our growth ambitions.
Page 14 of to intervene to identify unsafe practices and the Directors Report sets out further details promote safe behaviour.
This obligation is of the new regional Executive responsibilities.
communicated clearly and regularly through employee engagement and training across We also welcomed Graham Vinter to the the global business.
GEC as our new General Counsel, and Keith Hubber as our new Company Secretary.
The Group completed its detailed As the Chairman notes, our Deputy Chief examination of the findings of the Baker Executive William Friedrich announced Panel established in the aftermath of BPs 2005 Texas City renery accident, and his retirement.
I would like to express my personal thanks to Bill for his tremendous has tested the key conclusions against our own asset integrity systems.
Those systems, contribution to the Group over the years.
I would also like to thank Rick Waddell, already well-developed over a number of years, were rened further in 2007.
Executive Vice President and Managing Director for South America, who stood The Groups Lost Time Injury Frequency down from the GEC shortly after the LTIF of 0.26 per million hours worked in 2007 period under review.
was our lowest-ever gure, reecting the continuous focus on safety across the Group.
Looking forward For comparison, in 1998 the point when In my view, 2007 demonstrated once again BG Group first embarked upon a refreshed that our strategy and approach are robust and can be expected to provide the Group approach to safety management the LTIF was 6.7.
None of us at BG Group forgets with a source of competitive advantage in that behind the statistics lies the reality of the future business environment.
We benefit injured colleagues and bereaved families.
from an established and diversied long-life BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
