4 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Chief Executives statement Last year brought historic and structural changes in the way Alliance Trust operates that allow us to provide shareholders with real growth over the medium to long term even more effectively.
I am pleased to report that over the past year with the benefit of the merger with the Second Alliance Trust, your Company increased its Net Asset Value by 39% to 2.8bn and its Group revenue rose by 31.8%.
The total shareholder return over the financial year was 7.5% compared to the 4.2% increase in the Retail Prices Index.
Our investment objective Our objective is reinforced by aligning it more closely with your expectations that we should grow and preserve our Companys portfolio of investments.
By focusing on real returns relative to the UK RPI, we acknowledge that our shareholders invest in Alliance Trust expecting to receive a superior reward for their investment risk over the medium to long term.
You should reasonably expect your investment to return real growth over inflation across economic cycles, which is something that Im pleased to say we have delivered in the past year, and will be a core target for your Company in the future.
Last years results show we can take significant steps to mitigate risk while, at the same time, continuing to grow our assets and seeking improved performance at all levels of our Group.
Our strategy is to reduce the Companys exposure to a single asset class and spread risk by diversifying across several main investment areas where we have, or are developing, expertise.
Over the year we appeared to enter a more uncertain period in world equity markets.
We took decisive action in the third quarter to preserve capital, adopting a more defensive stance on equities.
We moved early to unwind our gearing of 2.7% of the portfolio and reduce exposure to quoted equities to 83% building up a 7% cash position.
This proved to be Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 5 premature as equity markets moved higher, by over 10%, company.
Our remuneration packages have to be competitive and our quoted equity portfolio lagged as a result.
This asset and so we are realigning them with challenging performance allocation decision was based on concerns of the risks from targets.
This is integral to our strategy and executives and economic slowdown and higher energy costs.
Another factor managers will only be rewarded to the extent that in the relatively weaker second half was that we held a 10% shareholders benefit and experience real returns in their equity exposure to Japan which was the poorest performing investment.
of the major markets and our own performance within that Our belief in creating the best possible environment for our market was disappointing.
Company to prosper was also carried through in the However, our resulting cash position allowed us to take announcement that we will be investing in building a advantage of the stock market falls in the first quarter of the purpose-built, modern HQ in Dundee to reunite our staff, current year.
currently operating from three sites in the city, in a single location.
The Scottish Executive has backed our expansion We ended the year with just under 3% in private equity and plans with a grant of up to 1.95m to help us in our creation just under 3% in property, both of which performed very well of new jobs.
We believe that this move was timely as we anticipate a genuine shift in perceptions and tolerance of risk Corporate structure in the year ahead when there are signs that the global economy may slow.
Headed by a single company, the Group is now organised into four principal investment divisions namely quoted equities, Benefits of the merger private equity, property and our financial services subsidiaries.
The subsidiaries include our pensions and investment services The most notable change since the last financial year is the arm, Alliance Trust Savings, and our new asset management merger of The Alliance Trust with the Second Alliance Trust.
business, AT Asset Management Asia-Pacific.
We have At our last AGM, shareholders voted to approve the merger appointed heads of each of these divisions embedding of the two investment companies and this took effect in June, greater accountability and clearer reporting lines.
Our goal is creating one combined company which is now the largest that each area in itself creates meaningful returns for Alliance generalist investment trust in the UK.
The merger means that Trust, while together these businesses complement one we have a single set of shareholders and a simplified structure another, thereby multiplying returns for our Group, while that is enabling us to take advantage of market opportunities diversifying risk.
in a more responsive and efficient manner.
Our investment areas Recruiting quality and experience In quoted equities, we performed well during the second In the past year, we have added genuine strength to our year that we have been organised on a geographical basis.
At Group level we have appointed two In each area, we are focused on seeking excellent individual very experienced and talented Directors, Janet Pope, who opportunities that will deliver value in the medium and long joined in November and is Chief Executive Officer of Alliance term.
The performance of our UK Small Cap and the AsiaTrust Savings, and Katherine Garrett-Cox, who Pacific ex-Japan portfolios are good examples of how a has been appointed Chief Investment Officer and will take decisive, well-researched approach is delivering up her position in May.
Janet has experience in banking and outperformance.
corporate strategy with some of the worlds leading financial services companies, while Katherine has a breadth of Our property portfolio, including mineral rights, had a good expertise in fund management, investment strategy and asset year, starting 2006 7 with two buildings fully rented and a allocation.
Their combined expertise will inform strategic capital value of 28.4m.
Property still represents less than decisions at Board level and strengthen execution of that 3% of our total assets, but over the year we added three strategy in their respective investment areas.
We have also prime properties in Edinburgh, Glasgow and Leeds at realistic appointed a new Company Secretary, Donald McPherson, prices in a heated market.
We saw capital value rise in historic whose broad experience in the financial services and energy oil and gas interests to nearly 11.2m and have been vigorous sectors will help to embed strong governance within our new when negotiating new contracts.
We will continue to grow structure.
Equally we have continued to bring skilled people the property portfolio but only where we see quality and into management teams throughout the Group.
The net asset value of our property portfolio has risen to over 78m in the last year.
Recruiting the best people for these jobs in a competitive marketplace can be expensive as we must be prepared to With the acquisition of Albany Ventures, we have increased recruit world-class expertise in order to build a leading our exposure to private equity and added two strong private 6 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations equity specialists to help direct and manage the private Investment philosophy equity division going forward.
Our private equity portfolio We will further broaden the exposure of our corporate was valued at 80.1m at the end of the financial year, capital.
We are not setting a specific target for any single representing 2.8% of assets, in addition to which we asset class: we are seeking to build portfolios where each manage 18.3m of third party assets.
investment represents a positive choice with real, long-term Our financial services subsidiaries comprise our Asset potential to generate growing returns.
We are conscious of Management business and Alliance Trust Savings, our the overall risk profiles of asset classes such as property and investment dealing, banking and pensions business.
These private equity and the dangers of approaching these account for approximately 1% of the Companys capital.
In every asset class, we are looking for outstanding opportunities that we will discover through We see great potential in these businesses which we intend rigorous bottom-up analysis.
to grow so that they contribute significantly to the Alliance Trust Group both in terms of capital appreciation and earning Our goals for the coming year are: generation.
In 2004 we began to modernise the Alliance Trust To continue to build a portfolio of opportunities, ensuring Savings business and put in place the capability, processes, we cherry-pick those investments with real long-term systems, technology and people to allow us to begin to realise potential that stand out within their asset class and outside that potential.
We will develop avenues of profitability by continuing Stronger than expected business growth has reinforced our the diversification of our investments.
confidence in the potential of this business.
Building on a To grow and develop our financial services businesses by record the previous year, in the year to 31 January 2007 realising the exciting potential within our pensions Alliance Trust Savings group customer numbers were up business, growing our investment dealing business with 23% last year 22%, plans 20% last year 12%, and, most our innovative online service and the transfer of customer importantly, revenue 25% last year 19% before the Alliance books from other providers, and developing our new asset Trust Pensions purchase.
Revenue growth is stated after management business with new funds and services.
annualising the contribution from Alliance Trust Pensions which we acquired at the end of 2005: actual Alliance Trust To complete the modernisation of our technology Savings revenue growth this year was 77%.
Total customer infrastructure across all our businesses and apply that assets under administration grew from 3.3bn to almost 4.8bn technology to bring greater scale and flexibility to our up 42% on a like for like basis compared to last years 33%.
businesses, as well as to refine our investment performance The rate of business growth over the last year has been very and deliver better services to customers and shareholders.
strong and we are reluctant to forecast that we will continue To continue building a world-class team and supporting our to grow at this pace, especially if the economy and investment employees in realising their full potential with customised environment were to slow.
However, early signs are positive training that develops their skills.
with the delivery of an exceptionally functionally rich online dealing and account management service, and our innovative To manage costs continually with investment gauged strictly investment trust services.
The cost of customer acquisition and by its potential to generate medium and long-term real first year servicing generally exceeds recurring servicing costs returns.
and the economies of scale from our systems developments over the past few years are beginning to be realised.
We anticipate that our financial services subsidiaries will be operating profitably in 2008 09.
Over the year, AT Asset Management Asia-Pacific began to manage two new open-ended funds, one focused on Japan and the other on Asia-Pacific, which are available to UK institutional and individual investors.
We also added 5.6m of third-party assets under management, generating fees from this area that add further income to our asset management business.
This venture gives us the opportunity to generate revenue and offer alternative investment products to our shareholders and customers for the first time.
We are planning more funds and services over the next 18 months.
