Chief Executive Officers Report CHIP GOODYEAR, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The 2007 financial year continued the positive trend in global economic growth that has provided the backdrop for the BHP Billiton plays a central role in providing performance of BHP Billiton in the past several years.
This trend, the raw materials essential to support combined with the emergence of the developing economies, has allowed the Company to generate another outstanding set economic and social development.
The of operating results and record financial performance.
aspirations of billions of people for a better Global demand for our products has enabled us to benefit from quality of life depends on access to raw our high-quality asset base and from our decisions over the past materials at a reasonable cost.
To be part seven years to reinvest in our business through organic projects of an organisation that realises its critical and acquisitions.
As a result, we have set annual production records in eight commodities.
FY2008 is expected to be another role in making a difference to billions of year of strong volume growth with the continued ramp-up of a people around the world has truly been number of projects and the commencement of production from a great honour.
new projects across our businesses.
Global supply of commodities, which are essential for economic and social development, continues to lag growth in demand and we expect this situation to continue.
This means commodity prices, while volatile, are expected to exceed long-term averages and, together with record volumes, should continue to contribute to the outstanding financial success of BHP Billiton.
As a leader in the global resources industry, we remain well-placed to respond to continuing demand growth and have demonstrated during the year our capacity to bring on-line major new sources of supply, such as the new Spence copper operation in northern Chile, and commit to further major expansions of operations such as at our iron ore business in Western Australia.
When we see value in a potential acquisition we are able to act, as we did during the financial year when we purchased an interest in the Genghis Khan oil and gas development in the Gulf of Mexico, adding to our oil and gas production capacity from this new financial year, and announced a one-third interest in an alumina project in Guinea, West Africa.
8 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 Global demand for our products has enabled us to benefit from our high-quality asset base and from our decisions over the last seven years to reinvest in our business through organic projects and acquisitions.
We continue to identify and evaluate numerous other project The health and safety of our people and communities, stewardship options that can be brought on-line as global demand grows in the of the products we sell and our work in developing communities years ahead.
Our track record in delivering 33 world-class projects are all areas that continue to challenge us, but it is critical we get across the globe over the past six years is a testament to the these right in order to preserve and enhance our licence to operate.
capabilities of our people, and we remain committed to developing The ability to meet the strong demand for our commodities projects in line with the approved budgets and schedules while requires that we have a positive impact on those we encounter acknowledging the current cost and labour pressures.
After five through our business activities.
years of continual growth, expansion and development, we are Companies that develop the skills, resources and relationships still able to say we have an inventory of future project options to meet these challenges will thrive and prosper.
Our long-term unparalleled in the global resources industry.
success is contingent on our ability to manage our business in We also remain well-placed to manage the challenges created by a sustainable fashion.
But to find truly effective and sustainable increasing demand for commodities and are determined to retain solutions will require others to engage in the challenge.
We can our competitive position in meeting demand.
Those challenges not do it alone: it is a shared responsibility that we have with include shortages of skilled employees and essential equipment, our host nations, local communities, our people, our partners escalating costs of the labour and raw materials required to and our industry.
construct projects and maintain operations, the intense Farewell competition for the rights to develop new resources and the difficulties associated with accessing resources in increasingly I have had the enormous privilege of leading the worlds largest remote and sometimes challenging parts of the world.
diversified resources company for the past five years.
BHP Billiton plays a central role in providing the raw materials essential to In meeting these challenges we have been able to draw on the support economic and social development.
The aspirations of diversity and breadth of our people and our business, combined billions of people for a better quality of life depends on access to with robust and evolving systems and processes that ensure we raw materials at a reasonable cost.
To be part of an organisation are sharing our skills and experiences across all of our assets and that realises its critical role in making a difference to billions project teams.
of people around the world has truly been a great honour.
I am very proud to be part of a truly global organisation No organisation is successful without talented and dedicated characterised by a senior management team drawn from many people.
At BHP Billiton I have been fortunate to have had the parts of the world.
As some of the most experienced people in opportunity to work with an outstanding group of people from the global resources industry, they lead an organisation drawn all over the world.
I would like to thank all our employees and from many countries.
This diversity and depth of talent, combined contractors for their commitment and efforts and for their with our geographic spread of assets and diversity of commodities contribution to the success of BHP Billiton.
I will leave knowing and markets gives us a significant competitive advantage through that the Company is well positioned for the years ahead and will the economic cycle.
continue to prosper and succeed through its next phase of growth.
My successor, Marius Kloppers, has been a valuable contributor to Sustainability the organisation in many roles and will be an outstanding Chief The continuing success and sustainability of our Company is Executive Officer.
I wish Marius, the executive team and all the heavily dependent on securing and maintaining our licence to members of the BHP Billiton family all the best for the years ahead.
operate, wherever we do business around the globe.
We work actively on securing and maintaining our licence to operate through the ethical conduct of all our people, our determination to keep our people healthy and safe, our efforts to improve the quality of life of the communities in which we operate and the protection of the environment.
However, we are facing many challenges.
More than 10 years ago Chip Goodyear BHP Billiton began to set targets to manage and control the gas emissions from and energy usage by our operations.
Over the past year the call for precautionary action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions has become loud and universal.
This year we again reviewed and reassessed our commitment to tackling climate change.
The result is an updated policy that not only sets new aggressive targets for emissions and energy reduction and commits increased funds to finding technological solutions but promises to work in partnership with various organisations to better understand and manage our impacts, and the impact of our products, on climate change.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 9 Katerina, Vladmir and Marta are geology graduates at Olympic Dam in South Australia.
They joined us from Russia as part of our greenshoots initiative.
The program recruits the best graduates from developing economies.
We give graduates international operating experience so they can eventually work with us on new and developing operations in their home countries.
39,000 PEOPLE IN MORE THAN 100 OPERATIONS, SPANNING 25 COUNTRIES.
PHOTO: OLYMPIC DAM AUSTRALIA Its our ability Our people come from around the globe, drawing on many cultures and backgrounds to work together and lead our organisation.
The result is a unique combination of unity and diversity that we nurture and protect.
10 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 In the 2007 financial year, we made 2,250 shipping voyages and 5,600 port calls.
Thats 15 port calls and 65 deliveries for each and every day of the year.
This is made possible by our world-class operations, industry leading systems and our high-calibre people people like Lee Kirk, Panamax Desk Manager in our Hague office.
240,000 PRODUCT DELIVERIES TO MORE THAN 1,300 CUSTOMERS GLOBALLY.
PHOTO: HAGUE MARKETING OFFICE THE NETHERLANDS Its our reliability Every moment of every day, all around the world, our people are working hard to supply our broad range of commodities to the global marketplace.
Our customers depend upon our products to help them achieve their goals.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 11 Its our diversification From the 25 countries in which we operate, we sell more than 20 different commodities.
We are the industry leader, Whether its selling copper from Chile, gas or one of the leaders, in minerals such as alumina, copper, nickel, from Australias North West Shelf, diamonds iron ore and metallurgical coal.
from Canada, coal from South Africa or nickel We also sell the full range of energy products, including oil, from Colombia, weve got the world covered.
The Greater Angostura development in Trinidad and Tobago is an important part of our petroleum portfolio, which also includes operations in Algeria, Australia, Pakistan, the UK and Gulf of Mexico.
IN 2007 WE ACHIEVED RECORD PRODUCTION IN EIGHT COMMODITIES AND ACROSS 17 OF OUR ASSETS.
PHOTO: ANGOSTURA TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 12 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 Our Rapid Growth Project 4 will increase capacity at our iron ore operations in Western Australia to 155 million tonnes per annum.
Our series of growth projects in our high-quality iron ore assets in the Pilbara has helped us meet growing global demand while also delivering outstanding shareholder returns.
BETWEEN 2003 AND THE END OF 2007, OUR ANNUAL IRON ORE PRODUCTION IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA WILL HAVE GROWN BY 60 MILLION TONNES.
PHOTO: WA IRON ORE AUSTRALIA BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 13
