Review Chief Executives statement Charles Philipps Chief Executive Amlins financial performance in 2007 was requirements.
Accordingly, in 2007 we started to exceptional.
We also made solid progress towards deliver on our commitment to manage the balance our goal of becoming the global reference point for sheet by paying 42.7 million in a special dividend quality in our markets.
In particular, the progress and announcing a further 120.4 million return to made in our Enterprise Risk Management helped shareholders by means of a B share issue which both Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Bermuda to receive was completed in January this year.
financial security rating upgrades: our long term succession planning was strengthened through In addition to the dividend and share buy-back review and a detailed assessment of senior people referred to in the Chairmans statement, we will which confirmed the strength of potential internal continue to keep under review our capital needs successors for key roles: and good performance with the intention of managing our capital to was delivered in two key areas of client service, enhance returns on equity.
contract certainty and claims turnaround, each areas where Lloyds and the London market has Underwriting strategy been striving for improvement and where Amlin has In 2007 we continued to operate with significantly been playing a leading role.
less retrocessional reinsurance than we had in 2005 and previously.
The expected overall profitability of Exceptional financial Both underwriting and investment markets are the business, given the strength of pricing in our performance for 2007. becoming more challenging.
We nevertheless expect Marine and Non-marine lines of business, meant Commitment to capital a further good year financially in 2008, and subject that we were very likely to be able to cover our to catastrophe activity not being abnormally high, largest modelled catastrophe loss without impairing management evident in 2007, we should still be capable of delivering a return on the balance sheet.
As it turned out, our largest with 163.1 million approved for equity above our average cross cycle target of 15%.
catastrophe event, the California bushfires, cost us return to shareholders in excess only US$26 million and we again saved on Financial results outwards reinsurance relative to 2005. of normal dividends.
We had high expectations for 2007 which were Divergence in cyclical patterns exceeded due to an exceptionally low level of claims In line with our focus on underwriting profit, we incidence in a year where earned premiums again flexed the business according to underwriting between business areas recognised peak US catastrophe pricing and there conditions.
We were pleased to grow our reinsurance expected to help performance were excellent investment returns.
The record return income where pricing remained attractive, however over coming years.
on equity for 2007, of 37.8%, should be regarded as we continued to reduce exposures in our airline exceptional and unlikely to be repeated in the short term.
account, where we considered pricing to be inadequate, Singapore office opened.
and for our UK Commercial account where pricing Continued improvement in Gross premium written, at 1,044.7 million, was was also considered poor, we focused on retaining risk management.
Amlin Bermuda recorded accounts which continued to offer reasonable 13.3% growth in its local currency gross premium.
Sound succession planning However the effect of a weaker US dollar, a 5% decline in place.
in renewal rates overall in 2007 and a reduction in With rates now softening in a number of our Marine Impressive staff retention exposure to classes where rates had become and Non-marine lines, it will become more difficult to marginal more than offset this.
maintain the excellent balance we have had over the levels maintained for the last two years between the downside from a major sixth consecutive year.
Profit before tax was a record 445.0 million, up catastrophe and our expected profit.
For 2008 our 29.8% on 2006 with excellent underwriting modelling indicates that our mean expected profit performance across the Group.
Our London operations will cover each of our modelled US single zone increased their profit from underwriting by 20.1% to catastrophe events.
The largest of these is currently 238.8 million, while Amlin Bermudas contribution a US$119 billion Florida windstorm for which the from underwriting was up 68.4% to 116.2 million, modelled occurrence probability is approximately reflecting its second full year, benefiting from a one in one hundred years.
However, it may not healthy opening unearned premium reserve.
Runcover either very significant multi zone events, such off profits from reserves were again material, totalling as a major windstorm affecting each of the UK, 109.0 million 2006: 68.9 million, and we consider France, the Low countries and Germany, or a very our reserving strength carried forward to be just as major Japanese earthquake.
As rates soften further, strong as it was going into 2007.
The contribution we will look to maintain an acceptable balance by from investments increased 36.4% to 157.0 million.
purchasing more reinsurance, including retrocessional reinsurance, which we have started to do.
Capital strategy We have consistently articulated that our key The increased divergence in cyclical patterns performance metric, that which we consider is most between our UK Commercial and Aviation accounts relevant to the delivery of shareholder value, is return on the one hand, and our Marine and Non-marine on equity.
This means that we will actively manage lines on the other, which we have witnessed since our capital over the insurance cycle.
We currently the 2005 hurricane season, gives us cause for hope expect that conditions for our London market business that by 2009 our UK Commercial classes will be will soften over the next two years and that with this, experiencing better margins, helping to offset the in line with our underwriting strategy, we will reduce expected loss of margin in our Marine and Nonexposures.
We therefore believe that for our existing marine divisions.
With this prospect we aim to be in business, our capital requirements are likely to have a position to grow our UK Commercial business and peaked for the time being.
to expand in UK property insurance where to date we have had only a small account.
This aim was The Groups success in generating significant levels behind our acquisition of Allied Cedar which was of profit over recent years has resulted in very strong completed in July 2007.
We are also investing in our free cash flow and capital which is in excess of our UK marketing capability and exploring means of increasing our alignment with a number of UK brokers.
8 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Review We have expanded our underwriting team in We continue to hone the service we provide to both helped us improve our succession plans and Bermuda with the recruitment of two additional clients and insureds, in particular through the use of confirmed to us that we have internal candidates underwriters, doubling those with authority to more effective systems and software.
Our investment with considerable strengths who should be able, commit lines.
The business there now comprises of in work-flow systems is paying off as the delivery of with tailored development, to fill most senior 22 people and, with the additional underwriters, contract certainty at the time of placement has become executive posts in the Group.
Relevant employees Amlin Bermuda has been able to increase its an everyday reality, and with the use of electronic are embarking on personally tailored development marketing effort.
With the AM Best rating upgrade claims files we are reducing claims turnaround plans during 2008. to A which was achieved in October 2007 we are times.
We have made a point of staying in close able to differentiate Amlin Bermuda from most of the touch with our top 20 London market brokers so We are grateful to our employees for what they and other class of 2005 start ups.
that we can work with them to enhance service to their hard work has achieved in 2007. the end customer as well as provide means of We have continued to increase the granularity with eliminating unnecessary expense from the Outlook for 2008 which underwriting exposures can be analysed and placement and claims settlement processes.
The underwriting environment in 2008 is softening monitored.
As well as helping to ensure that we remain as expected but good margins remain for selective within our risk appetite, this helps the Group to use Risk management underwriters.
Rates remain adequate across our its balance sheet effectively.
Good progress is also Expertise and sound risk management processes reinsurance, property and marine classes, with being made in reviewing and updating our technical are critical to the success of the Group.
It is also prices coming off historic peaks through 2007. pricing models.
Amlins underwriting team has a becoming increasingly important to be able to The UK commercial market has been under strong track record of increasing its out-performance in demonstrate the assessment and quantification of competitive pressure for a number of years now.
tougher market conditions and, with all the progress risk to both rating agencies and regulators, and with It is possible that later in 2008 we will witness achieved over the last 5 years, we are well placed to the advent of Solvency II, a new risk based capital improved trading conditions here, and if this occurs, manage the next phase of this cycle successfully.
standard that is expected to become mandatory it will help sustain good returns for longer.
Europe wide in 2012, this will be crucial.
Distribution With our stable team of high quality underwriters, A number of trends relevant to the distribution of our Having appointed a Chief Risk Officer in 2006, who have a strong track record of out-performance products gathered momentum in 2007.
First, in the good progress was made in 2007 in reviewing in softer market conditions, and a significantly UK, companies such as Towergate have been and enhancing our internal definitions of risk and improved risk management capability since the last seeking to aggregate increasing volumes of improving our dynamic financial analysis model soft market, we are confident in our ability to trade business by consolidating the UK broking sector, which now provides us with the ability to examine successfully through more challenging times when and major companies such as Axa and Groupama potential economic performance of the business they come.
Our underwriting philosophy means that have been actively buying UK regional brokers.
and to consider the range and probability of we will reduce exposures and be prepared to forego Second, affecting our global specialty products, outcomes around a mean expected return.
This premium income if margins become unacceptable.
regional insurance hubs, such as Singapore, have helps us assess the amount of catastrophe risk If this happens, we will focus on retaining good continued to gain strength which is likely to result in which we are prepared to accept.
margin business where we can, and we will some business, which has historically been continue to actively manage our balance sheet with underwritten in London, ceasing to come here.
During 2008, as well as implementing a new risk a focus on delivering shareholder returns.
Thirdly, we have seen increased convergence management and reporting system, we aim to between capital markets and the traditional improve our articulation of risk to stakeholders.
The investment markets remain very volatile with reinsurance markets as evidenced by continued As shareholders become comfortable with this, continuing concerns over the extent of damage that growth in catastrophe bond issuance.
it should help lower our cost of capital.
sub-prime lending will impart to the balance sheets of financial services companies.
While we have In the UK, the emergence of Towergate and other People limited exposure to sub-prime loans, and believe similar companies is unlikely to have a meaningful We believe there is a strong correlation between that most of the exposures we do have remain impact on flows of business to Amlin in the short effective people practices and shareholder value.
among the best credit quality, we are cautious term.
Our increased focus on marketing and interest We aim for strong alignment between the Groups about the outlook for returns this year.
We have in increasing our alignment with UK brokers is vision and goals, and those of our employees, and therefore adopted a conservative stance by intended to help address the threat that further between shareholders and employees.
With the first reducing equities to 8.8% of our investments and consolidation could have in the longer term.
award of shares under the Share Incentive Plan have protected 25% of these against a diminution of made in March 2007, 73% of employees now have year end value of more than 4.6%.
We are also The growth of regional insurance hubs, such as an equity interest in Amlin.
holding 28.8% of investments in short term liquid Singapore, is happening in areas of the world where funds.
However, there will come a point at which the there is strong economic growth.
In 2007 we Retention levels have remained within our annual upside for equities will outweigh the downside and opened an office in Singapore to give us access to target, although voluntary turnover has been closer we will be prepared, at that point to increase our the opportunities of a fast growing economy as well to our target maxima than in recent years.
Overall equity exposure, especially given the lower return as protection from the risk that the local market will and senior underwriter voluntary turnover in 2007 expectations that exist for bonds.
reduce flows of business to London.
Lloyds have was 14.4% and 8.3%, compared to target maxima also applied for admitted reinsurance status in of 15% and 10% respectively.
With this approach we expect to deliver acceptable Brazil, recognising the growing strength of the returns on equity for the next few years although not Brazilian economy, and is exploring options for the Two important pieces of work were completed in at the levels seen in the last two.
For 2008, we establishment of a platform in the Middle East.
We 2007 aimed at sustaining the long term success of expect, subject to the level of catastrophe activity not welcome these initiatives as an appropriately the Group.
First our values were rolled out across being abnormally high, to deliver a return on equity of structured Lloyds platform provides an extremely the Group with a healthy degree of positive at least our 15% average cross cycle target.
efficient means of widening our access to specialist employee engagement.
These are now being business where we can use our expertise.
embedded through incorporation into employee induction and appraisal processes and are aimed at We are following developments in the insurance promoting those aspects of the Groups culture linked securities market closely in the belief that which have contributed to its success.
Secondly, there will be opportunities for Amlin to either use the with the help of outside consultants, 39 senior high capital markets to lay off risk or to use its expertise potential employees participated in a detailed to package risk for others.
personal assessment which was designed to test Charles Philipps both management and technical potential.
This Chief Executive Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 9
