Chief Executive Officers review During the year we continued to make significant the need to support the growth of the business in advances towards our strategic goal to be the a controlled manner leading emerging markets investment manager At all times Ashmore seeks to develop its infrastructure by maintaining a market-leading investment track so that it can effectively support current and future record, growing and diversifying earnings, business activity levels, thus enabling the business to efficiently supporting AuM and revenue growth, grow with appropriate operational controls within a and developing further the Ashmore brand and high quality infrastructure.
the further development of the Ashmore brand Strategy and business model The Groups strategy to be the leading emerging The Group will continue to identify and develop a markets investment manager has remained variety of investment themes and, by offering a full consistent for many years.
There are four major range of emerging market investment products, areas of focus as part of the drive to deliver on we will be able to cater for a wide range of investors this strategy.
with a variety of risk return appetites.
Looking further ahead we aim to play a significant part the maintenance of a market leading investment in the mobilisation of capital within emerging track record markets, including managing the growing domestic The Groups investment process, which has remained capital pools within the economies of the emerging unchanged since 1992, is centred on an internally markets.
developed top-down macro investment approach, coupled with a bottom-up approach for corporate Progress in the year against our objectives and special situations distressed opportunities, During the year we made significant progress against both executed through a broad variety of financial our strategic objectives.
It has been another year of products such as debt, equity and foreign exchange good investment performance across the Groups products and instruments, with a particular emphasis investment themes.
The generation of alpha within the placed on liquidity.
Our aim is to achieve consistently Groups funds continues to come from a number of upper quartile investment performance.
sources including management of country risk, exchange rates, volatility, credit, instrument maturity the delivery of growth and diversification of the and interest rates.
We have increased the number of Groups earnings investment professionals within the Group from 17 to 25 At Ashmore we aim to continue to grow AuM across as part of the ongoing process of building the next multiple investment themes and product structures.
generation of Ashmore investment professionals.
We believe this will be achieved by the further development of our marketing and distribution It was a very busy year for new fund launches, including, capabilities through a number of sources including in April 2007, a retail multi-strategy fund for the external consultants, third-party agreements and Japanese market US$1.0 billion, in February 2007 strategic alliances and by growing Ashmores product a new segregated fund in the Groups global US$ range.
An important aspect of the drive to diversify theme US$0.4 billion and a private equity fund the Groups earnings is the promotion of existing and investing in Turkey US$0.1 billion.
During the first half new investment themes under existing and future of the financial year GSSF 3, a special situations fund product structures to new investors, and the promotion US$1.4 billion, was launched, a new local currency of multiple themes to the existing investor base.
debt fund within the Ashmore SICAV initially funded at ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 3 Chief Executive Officers review continued US$0.1 billion, a new structured alpha product in the increased our resources in this area and we continue global US$ theme initially funded at US$0.2 billion, to develop and broaden the Groups various and two new segregated equity funds raising a total of distribution channels.
In particular, we continue to seek US$0.8 billion were launched.
Additionally, there were strategic alliances with market leading financial a number of new mandate successes in the year services providers in their home markets to access including the HSBC UK pension fund US$670 million new pools of capital for our products through new multi-strategy mandate which was secured in distribution channels efficiently leveraging others November 2006.
The Groups multi-strategy funds, infrastructure.
For this reason, we are delighted to have which invest across the Groups investment themes, launched our multi-strategy fund for the Japanese also had a successful year with AuM, which benefited retail market with Nikko.
from the new fund targeting Japanese retail investors Turning to the future, there remains much to achieve and the HSBC mandate win mentioned earlier, and we continue to research new opportunities to increasing by 333% in the year to US$2.6 billion at diversify further and to continue to grow the Groups 30 June 2007.
All of the above clearly demonstrate investment themes and earnings streams, and to the vibrancy and innovation within our business and access the growing domestic capital pools within highlight the continuing growth and diversification of selected emerging markets.
This may result in the the Groups AuM.
The Group now manages 41 funds Group utilising a proportion of its capital resources segregated accounts across its four investment themes.
as seed capital for new fund launches initiatives.
We have continued to develop the Groups infrastructure capabilities.
The Groups present Emerging market dynamics technology arrangements more than adequately The case for emerging markets remains well supported support current business activity levels.
However, by strong macro-economic, demographic and political following an extensive review, we have started a factors.
GDP growth rates in emerging market two-year programme to upgrade the Groups IT economies are generally forecast to be higher than infrastructure.
This project will cost some 2 million developed countries and debt to GDP ratios continue and, in the main, the project costs will be amortised to reduce.
However, many of these developing countries to the income statement over a five-year period.
suffer from low production efficiencies due to a lack Once completed, the Group will have systems of access to capital.
The size and the potential of architecture in place which is scaleable to support the emerging market universe, over 60 countries, the anticipated growth in business activity levels is probably best illustrated by the fact that it represents and which will improve further the efficiency of its approximately 85% of the worlds population.
middle and back office operations.
Global liquidity levels remain relatively high and, by During the year, the number of employees within historic standards, there is a greater recognition that the Group increased from 49 at 30 June 2006 to investors are increasingly seeking to access enhanced 69 at 30 June 2007 reflecting our commitment to grow returns and to potentially benefit from diversification the business in a controlled manner and to bring and lower overall volatility through investments in together a team of like-minded people who believe emerging markets.
Perhaps more important, an passionately in the long-term strategic objectives increasing amount of that liquidity is being generated of the Group.
The continuing development of the within emerging market economies themselves, Groups marketing, distribution and client relationship gradually decreasing their reliance on offshore capital.
capabilities remains an area of key focus.
We have This is a trend we expect to continue.
4 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Innovation and diversification The emerging market universe of over 60 countries represents approximately 85% of the worlds population.
The Group now manages 41 funds and segregated accounts across its four investment themes.
41 Number of funds 30 June 36 8 9 26 14 3 12 8 3 2 3 Ashmore sponsored Segregated 16 13 12 Structured White label dual branded 2005 2006 2007 Breakdown of AuM AuM by fund account classification 2007 2006 2007 2006 Structured Special products White label situations 6% 6% Equity dual branded 11% 6% 6% 3% 10% 10% Local currency Segregated 16% 15% accounts Ashmore 32% 34% sponsored Global US$ funds 67% 76% 52% 50% ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5 Chief Executive Officers review continued As an asset class, emerging market debt is rapidly Outlook maturing with a more developed institutional The Group remains focused on delivering long-term investor base which is investing strategically for investment out-performance, generating net the medium to long term.
Against this backdrop, management fee income through the attraction of net with over 60 emerging market countries, this subscriptions across its investment themes and provides diversification based on different economic developing the Ashmore brand and business model.
and political dynamics, with reduced risk of Despite recent market volatility, trading conditions contagion that financial problems in one country across the Groups investment themes during the could affect others.
Tradeable emerging market last quarter of the 2007 financial year and into the debt increased in 2006 by 28% to US$5.5 trillion, start of the 2008 financial year remain satisfactory.
with particularly strong growth in corporate and local The Group continues to believe that strong macrocurrency debt.
economic, demographic and political factors, At Ashmore, we believe that the favourable economic together with enhanced liquidity, index weighting growth dynamics of emerging market economies, and credit worthiness in the Groups markets will the structural inefficiencies within them and the continue to underpin long-term growth across tendency, in many cases, for their shares to trade at emerging market classes.
a discount to developing markets, all point to strong These factors, together with Ashmores experience growth potential.
and expertise in emerging markets investment The Groups special situations distressed investment management, position the Group well to benefit from theme continues to provide opportunities to further demand for emerging market investment exploit the natural diversification resulting from management products and to continue its growth different unrelated dynamics to provide low momentum into the 2008 financial year.
correlation to other asset classes.
New opportunities for investment in special situations distressed investments are emerging in eastern Europe and Latin America in addition to the existing depth of Mark Coombs opportunities in Asia.
Chief Executive Officer 6 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Key events in the year August 2006 GSSF 3, a US$1.4 billion special situations fund, launched a new local currency fund launched in the Groups SICAV, initially funded at US$0.1 billion.
October 2006 Group lists on London Stock Exchange December 2006 a new structured alpha product in the Groups global US$ theme, initially funded at US$0.2 billion AuM at 31 December 2006 reaches US$26.8 billion, a 33% increase since 30 June 2006 January 2007 an 18% increase in AuM in the Groups multi-strategy fund reported in the six months to 31 December 2006 February 2007 launch of a new private equity fund investing in Turkey, initially funded at US$0.1 billion March 2007 AuM in the quarter to 31 March 2007 increased by 9% to US$29.2 billion April 2007 launch of a new multi-strategy fund for the Japanese retail market raising US$1.0 billion June 2007 AuM rose to US$31.6 billion at 30 June 2007, an 8% increase in the quarter and a 57% increase during the financial year ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 7
