Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 6 Group chief executives statement Overview Dear Shareholder, One Aviva, twice the value Our vision of one Aviva, twice the value puts a clear This is my first report on our annual results focus on growth and efficiency.
It signals a period of since becoming group chief executive last transformation which will bring us closer to building July.
I am pleased to say that Aviva delivered a truly integrated, global business.
Over the past few another robust performance in challenging years, we have grown substantially both organically and by acquisition.
Our scale and international reach means circumstances in 2007.
Strong growth that we can now move towards managing Aviva as across our long-term savings and asset one group, drawing on our collective knowledge and management businesses more than offset resources to accelerate the pace of change.
weather-related losses from our UK general The creation of Aviva Investors, will seek to harness the potential and power of our investment businesses insurance operation.
We want to improve the discipline As group chief executive, my intention and rigour that we apply in choosing to allocate capital is to build on the achievements of my as a composite company, and thinking as One Aviva predecessor, Richard Harvey.
I have set out will help in achieving this aim.
We can also achieve more benefits from our global brand by having a more a clear direction and a set of common goals consistent and unified approach to how we position to take Aviva further up the premier league ourselves in global markets.
of international financial services groups.
Now is the time to set ourselves a target in line with It is an ambitious and exciting agenda.
our vision and we will aim to double IFRS total earnings per share by 2012, at the latest, to drive dividend growth.
We remain committed to our diversified model of long-term savings, general Prosperity and peace of mind insurance and investment management, Our business is about creating prosperity and peace but with a new regional organisation.
of mind for our customers.
Our long-term savings and Our top priority is to realise the full asset management businesses aim to create financial potential of Avivas existing businesses.
prosperity and peace of mind, while our general insurance operations protect health and property when things go wrong: for example, during the worst floods in 60 years Our new executive management team Standing from left to right: John Ainley, in the UK last summer.
Our staff responded brilliantly Mark Hodges, Simon Machell, Tom Godlasky, to the crisis, doubling the numbers manning our call Igal Mayer, Anupam Sahay, Philip Scott and centres and providing mobile claims centres to provide Alain Dromer.
Read more Page 78 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7 Overview Our customers are the reason we have a business.
On an IFRS basis, the group delivered an overall profit Constant attention to meeting the needs of our customers before tax attributable to shareholders of 1,842 million will create extra sales momentum and deliver growth.
By eliminating unnecessary complexity and drawing our operations across the world closer together, we can share People services, cut costs, boost productivity and produce tailored We have 57,000 people employed around the world, products at affordable prices for our 45 million customers and it is vital that they all understand the part they have in different markets.
to play in attaining our objectives.
Our new structure encourages a greater sense of teamwork, and provides Regionalisation more clarity about how our people contribute towards our overall goals.
I am very grateful for the support and We are becoming a truly global organisation, starting from commitment of all our employees.
During periods of our historic roots as a UK-based company, developing a uncertainty and challenge they have continued to work major European presence and now growing in Asia Pacific with great professionalism and dedication to achieve the and North America.
The regional structure that we have best possible results for our customers and shareholders.
now put in place reflects this development and gets more Based on feedback from our global staff opinion of our people closer to our customers, making it easier to surveys, we are actively managing our talent across the offer products and services that are relevant in todays group to provide more opportunities for people to develop.
For example, some 400 people are If we succeed in our aims and ambitions over the next few moving out of the group centre and closer to the years, this will be a company that grows and growing businesses.
companies are exciting places to work, with interesting My new senior management team bring energy jobs and fantastic career opportunities for staff.
and fresh thinking to Aviva, together with a great deal of experience and expertise.
They are crucial to the successful running of our business, and I intend that they should be Outlook both visible and accountable.
You can find out more about The UK remains the largest of our businesses.
It is each of them on page 78 of this report.
responsible for 42% of our sales and is the bedrock of the groups success.
We intend to maintain Growth a market leadership position in the UK in both our long-term savings and general insurance businesses.
Demographics show there Europe continues to be a big success story.
We are the will be an increasing need for people to invest for their number one writer of life and pensions business across future well-being, not only in mature economies but Europe including the UK, based on multi-distribution also in developing markets.
In this context, we have channels in the larger, more developed, markets, and set demanding growth targets for each of our regions through successful partnering with banks, notably in which are set out in the regional sections of this report.
Spain, Italy and our new market-leading agreement To achieve these ambitious targets, it is important with Akbank in Turkey.
Growth prospects across Europe that we continue to invest in ways to reach new customers, remain excellent.
whether by direct sales, bancassurance, independent agents In North America, our presence took a step change or a multi-distribution approach.
In particular, bancassurance when we bought AmerUs in 2006.
Overnight we went has proved to be a very successful channel for us.
During the from a business on the margin of the US market to course of 2007 we signed multiple new agreements one that was five times bigger and right at the heart with partners in the UK, Europe and Asia Pacific regions, of an important part of the savings sector.
With the giving us access to over 50 million potential new baby-boomer generation heading for retirement, customers.
Our relationship management and partnering we see exciting further potential.
expertise remains a core competence of Aviva.
Our presence in Asia Pacific is growing fast, and we want it to be even bigger.
We have good businesses in Efficiency Singapore, Hong Kong and Australia, and have made Alongside our growth targets, we have also announced a great start with joint venture partnerships in India and new cost savings initiatives.
These aim to save 350 million China.
We have now entered new markets in Malaysia by 2009 from our UK and mature European businesses.
and Taiwan, and recently announced our entry into the During 2007 we successfully achieved the UK cost and South Korean market.
efficiency targets we set in 2006, realising annualised One Aviva, twice the value signals our plan to savings of 250 million.
We have now also realised the increase growth and improve efficiency.
I am delighted integration savings announced when we acquired AmerUs to be leading Aviva at such an important stage of its towards the end of 2006. development, and am confident that we have created an excellent platform for future success.
Financial results Andrew Moss Group chief executive On an EEV basis, our pre-tax operating profit of 3,286 million 2006 restated: 3,251 million reflects the strength of our diversified business model.
Return on equity shareholders funds was 11.3% 2006: 13.1%.
Earnings per share based on IFRS total return was 49.2 pence 2006: 87.5 pence mainly reflecting the impact of adverse weather and market conditions in 2007. Business review Turkish Aviva advertising In 2007 Turkey launched the Touch the future brand campaign.
The campaign creates a link between the past and future by emphasising the 300 year old history of Aviva to reinforce Aviva as an established and trustworthy company to have the capability for building better tomorrows.
The campaign was featured on TV, press, Region: Europe radio and cinema.
