Board and Executive management Date appointed The Board as Director The Executive Committee Date appointed Marcus Agius Group Chairman 2006 John Varley Group Chief Executive 1996 David Booth Non-executive Director 2007 Robert E Diamond Jr President, Barclays PLC and Sir Richard Broadbent Senior Independent Director 2003 Chief Executive, Investment Leigh Clifford AO Non-executive Director 2004 Banking and Investment Fulvio Conti Non-executive Director 2006 Management 1997 Dr Danie Cronj Non-executive Director 2005 Paul Idzik Chief Operating Officer 2004 Professor Dame Sandra Dawson Non-executive Director 2003 Chris Lucas Group Finance Director 2007 Sir Andrew Likierman Non-executive Director 2004 Frits Seegers Chief Executive, Global Retail Sir Michael Rake Non-executive Director 2008 and Commercial Banking 2006 Sir Nigel Rudd DL Deputy Chairman 1996 Stephen Russell Non-executive Director 2000 Sir John Sunderland Non-executive Director 2005 Other officers Date appointed Patience Wheatcroft Non-executive Director 2008 John Varley Group Chief Executive 1998 Jonathan Britton Financial Controller 2006 Robert E Diamond Jr President, Barclays PLC and Lawrence Dickinson Company Secretary 2002 Chief Executive, Investment Patrick Gonsalves Joint Secretary, Banking and Investment Barclays Bank PLC 2002 Management 2005 Mark Harding General Counsel 2003 Gary Hoffman Group Vice Chairman 2004 Robert Le Blanc Risk Director 2004 Chris Lucas Group Finance Director 2007 Frits Seegers Chief Executive, Global Retail and Commercial Banking 2006 6 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review Group Chairmans statement 1 through time.
Meanwhile, the investments made by China Development Bank and Temasek are a signal of their belief in the strong future prospects of our Group.
Were already seeing the benefits of the strategic partnership with China Development Bank that we announced in July.
Corporate Governance David Booth joined the Board on 1st May 2007 as a non-Executive Director.
He brings to the Board extensive investment banking and US market knowledge and experience.
As previously reported, Chris Lucas joined the Group and the Board on 1st April 2007 as Group Finance Director.
We also announced in December the appointment of Sir Michael Rake and Patience Wheatcroft to the Board with effect from 1st January 2008.
Sir Michael is a former Chairman of KPMG International and is Chairman of BT Group plc.
Patience is a former editor of the Sunday Telegraph and was Business and City Editor of The Times between 1997 and 2006.
Dr Danie Cronj has advised us that he does not intend to seek re-election 2007 was an eventful year at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
I would like to thank him for his considerable contribution to the Board and wish him well for the future.
for Barclays and the financial Responsible Banking services industry During the year we redefined our corporate responsibility strategy in support of corporate sustainability.
The sustainability strategy we are developing encompasses several themes: customer centricity: inclusiveness: respect for diversity: environmental sustainability and responsible global citizenship.
Over the year we made significant progress in a number of important areas.
We have continued to lead the market in inclusive banking in the Barclays performed well during 2007, despite the difficult market conditions.
Although profit before tax fell 1%, profit before business disposals rose UK and overseas.
Our engagement with UK consumer groups has led to improvements in Barclays basic bank account which is designed to help 3%.
The Investment Banking and Investment Management businesses Barclays Capital, Barclays Global Investors and Barclays Wealth all those who have been outside the banking system gain access via a simple account and we plan a significant deepening of banking services achieved profits ahead of 2006.
In Global Retail and Commercial Banking, there were good performances from the UK businesses and continued in emerging markets.
We are supporting over a quarter of a million entrepreneurs in emerging markets with a range of financial options.
investment in and development of the international business, where income rose sharply.
In the area of the environment, we made our UK operations carbon 2007 was an eventful year for Barclays and the financial services industry.
neutral and this will be extended to cover all our businesses around the world by 2009.
We launched Barclaycard Breathe, the UKs first credit card We announced in March that we were in merger discussions with ABN AMRO, although we subsequently withdrew our primarily share-based aimed at helping retail customers to address their own carbon impact.
Barclays remains the largest trader of allowances in the EU Emissions offer in light of a higher cash-based offer from a consortium of banks.
We also announced, in July, that two new major investors had joined Trading Scheme.
We have developed environmental risk guidance for lending which we have issued via the United Nations Environment our share register, China Development Bank and Temasek Holdings of Singapore.
The second half of the year saw extremely testing market Programme to 170 small international banks.
conditions as rising default rates on sub-prime mortgages in the US severely affected confidence in the global credit and money markets.
Management Team 2007 was my first year as Chairman and it has been a pleasure to get to The Groups diversified portfolio of businesses served shareholders well know the people of Barclays.
We are fortunate to have a forward-looking, in 2007, enabling us to deliver another year of substantial profits.
We have ambitious management team which is energetic in its pursuit of new declared a final dividend for the year of 22.5p per share, making a total products and services to help meet the changing needs of customers and payment for the year of 34p, an increase of 10%.
Let me extend on behalf of our shareholders a vote of thanks to all the banking sector globally were badly affected during 2007 by market of our people around the world who have worked so hard for the Groups concerns over the impact of conditions in the credit and money markets customers in very difficult market and competitive conditions.
We remain committed to delivering top quartile returns to our shareholders over time.
The potential merger with ABN AMRO represented a significant opportunity for us to accelerate the implementation of our strategy.
It was for that reason that we pursued it vigorously.
But we see no distinction between strategy and economics: we apply stringent financial tests to all mergers and acquisitions and we were clear throughout the period of the bid that we were not prepared to overpay.
Walking away from the opportunity, Marcus Agius as we did for this reason, has not caused us to change strategy, and we Group Chairman remain confident in our ability to grow and deliver value for shareholders Barclays PLC Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 7
