BlueBay Asset Management plc 08 Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Review Hugh Willis Chief Executive Asset growth has been driven and underpinned by solid investment performance the backbone of any asset management firm.
2007 An important and successful year 2007 was an important and successful year for BlueBay.
The This asset growth has been driven and underpinned by solid investment Group performed well in 2007 with continued growth in AuM performance the backbone of any asset management firm.
The Groups up 89% to $13.1 billion and profit before tax up 66% to 51.6 five flagship long short funds returned a blended average 10.4% net million.
Growth was driven by good performance across the of fees: marginally ahead of budgeted performance.
Its five main longGroups funds and products and strong investor demand for its only funds all beat their indices over the year: by between 1.1 and 6.9 asset management services.
In November 2006, moreover, the percentage points: with both of its European corporate bond funds Group realised its long established objective of successfully and one of its emerging markets funds ranking as the best performing gaining admission of BlueBay's ordinary shares to the Official in their sectors since launch.
A satisfactory year of performance was List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the main rounded off with BlueBay receiving the prestigious Global Investor market of the London Stock Exchange: and was subsequently 2007 Emerging Market Debt Award for Investment Excellence.
admitted to the FTSE 250 index in March 2007.
Solid investment performance was accompanied by continued Group strategy investment in the Groups infrastructure platform with the firms The Groups strategy since its inception in 2001 has been to position achievements in this sphere being marked by it receiving an award itself as a leading institutional asset manager in two particularly fast for excellence in hedge fund operations Best Operator in Fixed growing sectors of the global fixed income credit markets: European Income Single Manager Europe 2007 from Financial News.
corporate debt and emerging market debt.
In constructing the optimum The benefits of the Groups focus on building first class systems, business model to achieve this, we have adhered to two key principles: compliance, legal and risk infrastructure are now being felt daily: with institutional investors regularly citing BlueBays strength in these That modern institutional investors have a strong preference for areas as a key differentiator in manager selection.
employing asset management firms able to offer both comprehensive infrastructure and strong risk-adjusted fund Despite rapid year on year asset growth and continued infrastructure performance: and that this combination is surprisingly rare: and investment, the Group was successful during the year both in That the traditional boundaries between long-only funds and hedge maintaining premium management fee margins and in improving funds are breaking down fast: and that asset management firms operating margins once more.
This allowed pre-tax profits and diluted seeking scaleable businesses must offer investors a range of earnings per share to rise to 51.6 million and 18.5 pence respectively.
absolute return style products spanning both disciplines.
Notable improvements in the quality of earnings were also achieved over the year: with the proportion of overall management fees deriving 2007 has seen continued validation of the Groups focused strategy: with from the Groups long-only and structured product funds rising from powerful secular growth continuing in its two target markets European 25% to 36% and the proportion of total revenues represented by corporate debt and emerging market debt and the Group winning management rather than performance fees rising from 49% to 56%.
significantly increased market share across its major sub-asset class range.
Listing 2007 results The admission of BlueBay's shares to the Official List of the UK Listing The most obvious manifestation of this has been robust growth in Authority in November 2006 was a milestone event for the firm.
AuM across the Groups funds and products: from $7.0 billion in June Planned since BlueBays inception in 2001, the flotation allowed the 2006 to $13.1 billion in June 2007.
Growth has been strong across Group to make available an exit to its original institutional equity all disciplines: with long short assets rising 76% to $4.9 billion, longbackers Barclays Bank PLC and Shinsei Bank, Limited: to improve only assets rising 117% to $5.6 billion and structured product assets further the Groups transparency to the benefit of its fund investors: rising 65% to $2.6 billion.
and to equip itself with a potent currency with which to continue to attract and retain talented people.
The flotation was successful: with the maximum number of shares allotted.
BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2007 09 People market and related SIV-lite structures being prime examples of this.
Asset management companies are ultimately dependent upon their We remain an opportunistic issuer of collateralised debt obligations people and BlueBays success to date has been a direct function of its CDOs : with our only issued transaction to date being a 2005 ability to attract and retain the very best people in the industry.
We are emerging market vehicle whose entire issued note base was upgraded required to do this in a highly competitive market place and therefore to AAA some time ago and which remains very stable.
We have not attach considerable importance to ensuring that BlueBay is a pleasant issued any collateralised loan obligations CLOs, primarily due to and rewarding place to work.
While competitive cash compensation our views on term leverage at this point in the credit cycle and it also structures and a collegiate working environment are important elements remains the case that none of BlueBays funds or products has had of this programme, at its heart lies the important principle of universal any direct long-side exposure to the sub-prime mortgage market.
58% of BlueBays equity was held by its employees at year end: with all of the Groups permanent UK employees given the Looking to the immediate future, we expect the current difficult credit opportunity to own shares in the firm.
BlueBays employees also hold market conditions to persist in the near future.
It seems highly likely in excess of $100 million of personal investments in BlueBay funds.
that major central banks will soon cut rates maybe significantly in order to unblock the arteries of credit markets and prevent a shortOur focus on ensuring that BlueBay remains a real community was also term liquidity crisis triggering an accelerated recession.
Our base case behind the decision we took in May to relocate the entire London office is that such action will ultimately be successful and that an early end to a new building in Grosvenor Street pictured on the cover of the to the current credit cycle will be avoided.
The process of restoring Annual Report at the end of this calendar year.
We selected this option order to credit markets is nevertheless likely to take some time: and over an alternative that would have involved splitting the London office to involve further pain for market participants who have become into two locations: and are confident that the incremental investment overextended in recent times.
However, this is likely to be a very involved will show both tangible and intangible benefits over time.
interesting environment for investors and asset managers whose portfolio liquidity and investment skills equip them to take advantage Outlook of forced selling and distressed prices.
The first two months of the current financial year July and August have been, as already well documented, extremely difficult for credit More generally, we believe that the highly favourable combination markets.
What began as a sub-prime mortgage crisis in the US has of asset class and industry developments that have driven BlueBays spilled over into the broader credit arena and severe losses have growth over the last six years are set to continue.
From an asset class been experienced by many market participants.
This is giving rise perspective, European corporate debt markets remain at a relatively to a more challenging credit environment than we have seen for early stage of their development and set for further pronounced some years and it appears unlikely that the second half of the secular growth: while emerging market debt continues to be current calendar year will be an easy one for our industry in general.
embraced by an increasing number of investors worldwide as an important, mainstream asset class.
From an industry perspective, Against the background of a challenging credit environment, trading the growing popularity of specialist managers, absolute return style at BlueBay has been satisfactory in July and August.
AuM have risen investment processes and open architecture distribution continue 7% over the period from $13.1 billion to $14.0 billion and the disproportionately to benefit performance-driven brand names such Group has accrued positive performance fee income during the period.
BlueBay remains particularly well positioned, in our view, to continue to benefit from this remarkable confluence of trends.
Importantly, BlueBay is benefiting in the current environment from the conservative approach it has historically taken to structured credit A thank you products, which have proven to be a particularly difficult area for I would like to close my remarks by extending my thanks to all the managers that have been more aggressive in this space in recent years.
members of BlueBays staff that have made possible the Group's success Specifically, BlueBay has avoided any structured products that are to date.
We will continue to rely upon their skill and dedication for our exposed to refinancing risk: the structured investment vehicle SIV future success: and we do so with confidence.
BlueBay Asset Management plc 10 Annual Report 2007
