Year at a glance Directors report B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 26 2 08 10:44 Page 4 04 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 Directors report Chairman and Chief Executives introduction The condition of our lending book is very important to us and we continue to have great belief in the quality and prospects for buy-tolet lending.
Tenant demand remains very strong and is driven by robust fundamentals.
We took the decision early in 2007 to reduce our appetite for self-cert lending to preserve business quality.
We have not relaxed our credit criteria across any of our products and have focused on higher quality loans, using risk-based pricing to ensure we cover any incremental risk with a higher price.
The credit performance of all our portfolios has been in line with expectations.
Arrears levels have increased during the year, reflecting rising interest rates in the UK.
Rod Kent Steven Crawshaw Chairman Group Chief Executive Liquidity and funding We have been pleased with the way we Introduction underlying profit before tax by 5% to 351.6m dealt with the extreme liquidity problems 2007 proved to be an eventful and difficult 2006: 335.9m and underlying earnings per which emerged in the wholesale markets year for the banking sector.
share increased by 6% to 40.2 pence 2006: 38.1 in the second half of 2007. pence.
Statutory profit before tax was 126.0m Despite the turmoil in the financial markets in 2006: 246.7m and earnings per share 14.9 In general terms, we were well placed for such the second half of the year, Bradford & Bingleys pence 2006: 28.2 pence.
We had been careful to retain our underlying business progressed satisfactorily between underlying and statutory profits arises conservative approach to our funding and, in with underlying profit before tax of 351.6m, due to the exclusion of certain strategic, external particular, had continued to invest in our branch gaining by some 5%.
and fair value items from underlying profits.
network and build up the amount of our retail These are set out in the Income Statement table.
We had also pursued the policy of The disappointment of the year has been the prefunding our net new lending and of holding For more information on 12-15 write-downs and impairments, caused by the sufficient liquidity for at least four months financial performance see pages manifesting of the liquidity crunch, that have without recourse to wholesale money markets.
been made against a very small proportion We made good progress against our objective of our Treasury assets.
Largely because of of growing residential lending, adding a record In response to the unfolding liquidity crunch, this, our statutory profit before tax was 8.3bn to our balances, an increase of 27%, to we took a number of steps to reduce our reduced to 126.0m.
take our total residential balances at the year funding needs.
We increased our mortgage end to 39.4bn.
pricing to contain volumes and protect The Groups conservatism and diversity of margins: raised our savings pricing to attract funding, combined with our policy to prefund The savings business made an excellent additional customer deposits: reduced the our new business pipeline and our decision to contribution during the year, with an level of mortgage portfolio acquisitions: and dispose of non-core mortgage portfolios, additional 1.6bn being raised through our increased our focus on lower risk lending.
meant that we weathered the much publicised traditional branch network.
Retail Savings are For many years we have worked hard at liquidity problems in the financial markets well.
a very valuable part of the business, attracting diversifying our funding base and building new customers to the Group and providing strong relationships.
This proved very Underlying trading a stable source of funding.
Total retail savings beneficial when we raised 2.5bn in Despite the diversion caused by market events, deposits were 21.0bn 2006: 19.7bn and private funding transactions in September and as a direct result of the fortitude of our at the end of the year, total customer deposits and October when the public wholesale colleagues throughout the Group, we achieved of 24.2bn funded 60% of customer loans markets were effectively closed.
a great amount during the year.
February May June Relaunched our full Achieved Announced 2006 status residential 20bn of results with underlying Completed a lending proposition buy-to-let profit before tax up 8% securitisation of through mortgage lending to 335.9m, with record 2.5bn equivalent Issued covered intermediaries, balances gross and net lending in Euros, Sterling bond of 1.7bn targeting niche and record pipeline of and US Dollars from equivalent in segments of the new mortgage the Aire Valley Euros and market to achieve applications Mastertrust Swiss Francs higher margins Directors report B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 26 2 08 10:44 Page 5 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 05 We made good progress against our objective of growing residential lending, adding a record 8.3bn to our balances, an increase of 27% At the time of these results, we had made assets which include a derivative as part of Board.
We are very proud of our culture and good progress towards agreeing a range their structure, the fair value change of that values at Bradford & Bingley and it is this of secured standby facilities with our key derivative is required to be shown in the collective spirit and sense of belonging that relationship banks, at sensible margins, to Income Statement.
Such changes on our has enabled our people to work together very take advantage of any particularly attractive portfolio of synthetic CDOs amount to effectively in 2007, in the face of extremely growth opportunities.
It is important to emphasise that challenging market conditions.
The Board all these assets continue to perform and this would like to thank Sir George Cox who retired In April 2007, the Board took the strategic change in fair value may not be permanent.
at the end of 2007, for his advice and service decision to sell some commercial lending and over the past seven years.
housing association mortgage assets in order In addition, the hedging of fixed rate to focus on the higher-margin, high growth, mortgage and savings, using interest rate Outlook specialist mortgage market.
Market events swaps to remove the economic risk, creates It is widely anticipated that the economic protracted the sales process but we were a small amount of fair value movement conditions for the year ahead will be difficult pleased to complete the disposal in described as hedge ineffectiveness.
This and that the residential housing market will November 2007 of 4.0bn of loans for amounted to a charge of 23.5m in 2007 be adversely affected, despite the recent cuts a net consideration 44.7m below book 2006: 0.3m income.
In these circumstances we value.
In addition, 13.3m of transaction would expect arrears to eventually rise.
and restructuring costs were incurred.
Capital and dividend We initiated a share buy-back in July 2007 in However, in our core buy-to-let lending, we see Impairment of treasury assets a move to improve the structure of our capital that rents are continuing to rise and that tenant In common with other banks and institutions, by changing the proportions of equity and demand remains very strong, with recent we have invested a small proportion of our interest bearing tier 1 capital on our balance surveys of private property investors showing assets in slightly higher yielding and more sheet.
As market conditions deteriorated it that they remain committed to maintaining or complex instruments.
At the time of our premade sense to suspend our buy-back expanding their portfolios.
Within our specialist close statement, the Group held 125m of programme until greater stability returns to markets, some competitive pressures have investments in structured investment vehicles the capital markets.
We will continue to review eased and we will seek the opportunity to SIVs, and a further 140m holding in the amount and structure of our capital in the rebuild our margins to offset the increased collateralised debt obligations CDOs which context of our strategy to grow our lending costs of funding whilst maintaining our overall have an element of exposure to the US suband market conditions.
Our tier 1 ratio is credit quality.
Of this CDO holding, including improved at 8.6% 2006: 7.6%.
synthetic CDOs, 72m is the specific exposure The wholesale financial markets may be to the US sub-prime mortgage market.
Until The Board is pleased to propose a final dividend subject to further shocks and consequent the last quarter of 2007, no payment problems of 14.3 pence per share 2006: 13.4 pence for turbulence and we will continue to exercise and no credit concerns had been encountered payment on 2 May 2008 to shareholders on the great caution in our approach to both funding by these assets.
If approved, the and liquidity.
The rate at which we can grow full year dividend for 2007 will be 21.0 pence will depend on the rate at which we can fund In the light of the recent problems with such per share 2006: 20.0 pence, an increase of the business both through our retail savings assets, we have undertaken a careful analysis 5%, reflecting our underlying profit growth.
deposits and via the wholesale markets.
Both in order to identify those whose value has been of these have shown strong growth in the first permanently impaired.
To our disappointment, People few weeks of this year.
we have concluded that 64.2m of our The Board has been extremely impressed SIVs and 30.2m of our CDOs are impaired, with Bradford & Bingleys employees during The Board believes Bradford & Bingley has the and have charged these amounts to our 2007.
Many areas of the Group experienced brand, the market positioning, the expertise Income Statement.
testing times during the year, particularly our and the policies in place to respond well to branches and Savings deposit operations these conditions.
Fair value accounting where a very high level of transactions took Under International Financial Reporting place.
Their commitment and enthusiasm Standards introduced in 2005, for certain was critical and much appreciated by the July October November Completed the sale Announced half year A total of 2.5bn raised of our commercial results with underlying from wholesale markets lending and housing profit before tax up since liquidity crisis hit Launched ASDA association mortgage 11% to 181.5m and in August via privately Internet Saver, an portfolios for 4.0bn, residential new net placed securitisation, exciting venture following a review of lending up 92% to 4.5bn covered bonds and with one of the the growth potential with residential lending other structured UKs leading and capital utilisation balances up 14% transactions retailers of these assets to 35.6bn
