Chief Executives statement 290m Invested in the year, including 128m in new opportunities 317m Realised in the year, including 131m for our stake in Kerzner International Our financial year ended 31 March 2007 saw net asset value NAV In addition, the fall in value of the US dollar compared with sterling per share increase by 10.8% which was just over 3% ahead of the over the period of 13.1% had an adverse effect on NAV.
Although FTSE All-Share index over the year.
The graph below compares our we had hedged our Kerzner International exposure, we had not NAV per share performance against the FTSE All-Share index since hedged our other US dollar denominated investments, and we our conversion to investment trust status on 1 April 2003. estimate that the foreign exchange effect on these US dollar investments reduced NAV by around 7m.
Net asset value per share NAV per share Investment activity since investment trust conversion FTSE All-Share p It has been an active investment year for us, both for investments 2,500 made and for realisations.
As a result of our style as long term supportive and constructively involved investors, we are approached with many 2,100 opportunities not always offered to others.
During the financial year, our investment management committee evaluated 130 new 1,700 investment opportunities.
We made 14 new investments for a total amount of around 128m more than half of this in unquoted 1,300 companies.
In addition, a further 162m was made in follow-on investments, giving a total investment of 290m for the year.
This 900 is a significant increase on the 155m we invested in the previous 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 year.
More information on these is given in the business review on page 13.
With our increased knowledge of the market in India we have Although for the 12 months ended 31 March 2007 our NAV per been carefully increasing our exposure to businesses trading in that share growth was ahead of the market, it is disappointing to note rapidly expanding area.
As at 31 March 2007 the total value of our that, as a result of our discount widening, our share price increase Indian investments including two UK listed entities that focus on of 4.3% from 1980p to 2066p was below the FTSE All-Share index India was 71.8m representing 5.4% of shareholders funds.
growth of 7.7% for this 12 month period.
We continue to be actively and constructively involved with our investee companies, which we believe materially aids performance.
Significant changes in value It is our normal policy for a Caledonia executive to join the board Our 10.8% NAV per share increase was significantly aided by four of an investee company, and during the year we have had our investments, each of which provided total return gains including executives on the boards of 18 of our top 20 investments.
the value of dividends and distributions of more than 10m.
Realisations this year totalled 317m, a similar level to the These were: previous year.
By far the largest was the buyout by a management-led investor group of Kerzner International, the Quintain Estates & Development quoted 22.1m resorts owner and operator in which we had an 8% stake.
The Sterling Industries unquoted 21.8m $237m received by us in September had been hedged at an average Polar Capital quoted on 6 Feb 2007 11.8m of $1.81 to the pound, resulting in an overall realisation of 131m, Terrace Hill quoted 11.1m including a 6m benefit from the hedge.
More information on our realisations is given on page 14 in the business review.
No individual investments had value losses of more than 10m, but We started the year with 180m of cash and in view of our in two cases there were losses in value of over 5m: liquidity level, we believed it to be in shareholders interests to offer an elective special dividend with an associated share cancellation.
Alok Industries quoted 6.0m All such shareholder elections, including those for oversubscription, Tribal Group quoted 5.0m were met in full.
As a consequence, 102.9m was paid out and shares in issue reduced by about 5.4m to around 58.7m.
However, in both of the above two holdings, their share prices have As a result of the above investment activity and the elective improved markedly since 31 March 2007. special dividend, our liquidity slightly reduced during the year and was 109m at 31 March 2007.
04 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 Tim Ingram We seek to maintain our Chief Executive distinctive outperformance.
Costs Outlook Keeping overhead costs down is an important objective for us as Although at the time of writing economies around the world still every pound of cost is a pound reduction in our shareholders net seem to be buoyant and we continue to see a healthy flow of assets.
Nonetheless, it is vital that we have sufficient resources to investment opportunities, we remain conservative in our approach be able to manage our portfolio effectively in a hands-on fashion, and are particularly careful not to overpay for new investments.
while also attracting and evaluating a strong deal flow.
We believe Economic cycles will continue and we believe it is in our that being a self-managed investment trust company, with direct shareholders interests for us to remain cautious in our investment control over costs, significantly helps this objective.
We have liquidity on our balance sheet and would expect total expenses ratio was 0.8%, which compares favourably against to remain ungeared with continuing liquidity at the end of the a pre-tax weighted investment trust industry average of 1.4%.
By carefully selecting the right opportunities where there are Discount strong management teams, by continuing our active involvement As mentioned above, we are very conscious that the widening of in investee companies and by being careful to avoid overthe discount of our share price to net asset value has a deleterious exuberance, we seek to maintain our distinctive outperformance.
effect on our share price performance.
We firmly believe that we should continue to concentrate our efforts on striving to ensure that NAV per share continues to outperform the market.
This is the best way over the medium and long term of meeting our financial aims of total shareholder return outperformance.
One of the actions that aids our NAV per share Tim Ingram performance is, when the opportunity arises, to buy our own shares Chief Executive into treasury when there is a significant discount.
This we have done in a small way during March when 40,000 shares were bought in at an average price of 1976p.
In order that such opportunities can also be exploited to the benefit of our shareholders during the close period from our year end to the announcement of our results, we have given, within certain pre-set parameters, irrevocable instructions to our brokers, JPMorgan Cazenove, to purchase shares on our behalf.
On 11 May 2007, 30,000 shares were thereby purchased at a price of 2130p.
In addition to the above, we also believe that continuing to improve the awareness of Caledonia amongst retail investors should prove beneficial.
To this end, we have programmes in place to present the company to private client stockbrokers and leading IFAs.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 05
