Chief Executives Report Last year I reported the launch of a three-year plan, focused on is particularly pleasing as it vindicates the actions taken to rebuild targeting specialist areas and higher margin products, to foster our emerging equities team in 2006. profitable organic growth.
Consistent with this strategy, our Key We under performed in US, Japanese and Continental European Performance Indicators are biased towards growth, rather than equities and UK government bonds and global credit.
Where short term operating margin or assets under management.
necessary we have taken action to improve performance in these asset classes.
For example, we have appointed a new Head of The first phase of this plan required accelerated investment in European equities and, in the case of US large cap equities, we people, products and infrastructure to ensure we deliver strong moved all mandates to our Quantitative Equity Strategies desk at investment performance on existing funds and upgrade our the start of 2008. product suite, distribution resources and operating platform.
Underpinning this we identified a portfolio of eight product and Socially Responsible Investment SRI funds under performed their marketing initiatives for 2007, as well as specific infrastructure unscreened sectors during 2007 as they are naturally biased investments.
towards small caps and were limited in their ability to participate in oil and gas and mining shares, as well as certain defensive In spite of turbulent markets in the second half of the year and the sectors such as tobacco.
However, our SRI funds remain corporate backdrop, discussed further below, I am pleased to report positioned as market leaders against their ethically screened good overall progress in executing the first year of our plan.
Our competitors and we expect to see ongoing strong demand for portfolio approach to new initiatives, combined with a careful sustainable investments.
monitoring of progress in each, provided us with the flexibility to adjust the mix of the investment programme throughout the year Investment in Products, People and Infrastructure in light of market developments.
In aggregate, the revenues and New product development was a key feature of 2007, particularly costs of these initiatives were well within the parameters of our plan.
in the first half of the year.
In addition to those products identified The financial outcome for 2007 is slightly ahead of our plans, with in my interim report and at the launch of the three-year plan, we underlying earnings per share of 10.4 pence and operating margin also launched an innovative multi-asset Diversified Growth Fund of 30.9 per cent.
Our average fee rate has continued to rise and the first 130 30 fund focused on UK equities.
We further progressively from 21.6 basis points in 2006 to 22.5 in 2007 built our sustainable investment range with new funds focused on reflecting our focus on increasing revenue margins.
ethical bonds and the investment opportunities linked to climate change.
In The Netherlands we launched our own fiduciary Business Flows management service to respond to the structural changes in 2007 was another record year for our UK retail funds business that market.
with 703 million of inflows into open ended funds.
Our net sales We also continued work on our infrastructure platform.
during a period when, according to the successfully brought in-house the element of our operations that Investment Management Association, net sales of UK domiciled had previously been outsourced to Mellon and now have in place retail funds actually declined by 38 per cent.
Importantly, inflows a single, integrated operational function that leaves us better were across a broad number of funds including multi-manager, placed to take on new business and ensure consistency of service.
ethical, corporate bond, UK and Asian equity funds.
We have As we recognise the efficiencies generated by these infrastructure excellent momentum in UK retail and have secured a number of developments and other investments we would anticipate a new distribution agreements with adviser firms that should allow reduction in head count from the end of 2007 levels.
Likewise, we us to build sales further during 2008. implemented a new front-office Decision, Risk and Dealing DRD system to support the delivery of investment performance, Having disclosed in January 2007 that we had received particularly as we develop more sophisticated products.
notification of institutional withdrawals during 2007 of 5.2 billion, final institutional outflows totalled 6.1 billion including an We have made additional investments in human capital, following 800 million withdrawal from Cambridge University notified in on from the substantial upgrades of our investment teams in September 2007, following its decision to establish its own 2006.
Much of our recruitment in 2007 has been focused on the investment office.
We recorded increased institutional inflows of further development of our distribution capabilities to allow us to 3.3 billion during the year and obtained eleven new consultant achieve increased inflows over the coming years.
In particular we buy ratings.
Average fees on institutional inflows were higher recruited a Head of Distribution and Business Development to than average fees lost on institutional outflows, reflecting the lead the distribution drive in our international wholesale and implementation of our strategy.
institutional businesses and a Head of Product Management to improve the speed of delivery of new product initiatives.
We have Investment Performance strengthened distribution teams in The Netherlands, Germany and Investment performance was strong across a number of key the UK and opened an office in Sweden.
We have also registered products and asset classes during 2007 resulting in performance our funds into a number of new jurisdictions including Austria, fees increasing by more than 100 per cent.
We out-performed in Switzerland and the Nordic region.
core UK equities, UK high alpha, UK small cap, pan-European Outlook equities, emerging equities, global equities, UK credit, high yield bonds, emerging debt and convertibles.
Performance was With strong performance, an enhanced product suite and excellent in Asia ex Japan and emerging equities.
The latter result additional hires in sales and business development, the focus of 6 6 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 2008 will be distribution.
In Europe we will continue to deepen our presence in existing markets as well as extend into new territories.
We have recently concluded a distribution deal with the Allfunds Bank platform that will provide us access to a broad base of distributors located in several markets, including Spain and Italy.
Moreover, we have recently established distribution relationships with banks in both Italy and Russia.
We are also finding opportunities outside of Europe, including a new agreement with IM Trust that will provide us with access to the Chilean market and are exploring initiatives in Asia and the Middle East.
Against this backdrop of good progress in executing the plan there are undoubtedly challenges ahead, not least from a deteriorating economic environment and volatile markets.
We believe that our strategy of being a diversified business by asset class, client type and geography positions us well to weather the storm.
We have no direct exposure to US sub-prime mortgages and limited exposure to structured credit instruments.
However, volatile markets undoubtedly present significant challenges for active investors and hamper net sales.
In our 2006 Annual Report & Financial Statements, we stated that: we are setting ourselves a target of increasing underlying EPS by 50 per cent.
Since that statement was made the Company has entered into an Offer Period and has confirmed with the Takeover Panel that this target qualifies as a Profit Forecast for the purposes of the Takeover Code.
Given its duration the target cannot be reported on as a Profit Forecast as required by the Takeover Code and in the absence of such a report the Company is unable to provide an assurance that the target will be achieved.
Accordingly shareholders should not rely upon it.
As outlined earlier the Board and management are pleased with the progress to-date in implementing its strategy and during 2007 launched a number of new products, recruited high quality professionals and improved investment performance in key product areas.
However, since publishing the earnings target a number of factors have affected our business including the uncertainty surrounding Friends Provident, the recent announcement by Friends Provident that it is considering divesting its shareholding in the company and deteriorating market conditions.
The combination of these factors is impacting some client and consultant decisions on new business and has resulted in there being an increased level of uncertainty around the timing of the growth anticipated in the plan.
Nevertheless the Board and management remains committed to the strategic direction set out in the plan and its focus on seeking organic growth opportunities in higher revenue margin and specialist product areas.
The Board and management believe that the group will increase its rate of progress once market conditions stabilise and our long term ownership is resolved.
Alain L. Grisay Chief Executive 6 March 2008 7 Expect excellence 8 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 2007 saw F&C embark on a major sponsorship deal with Birmingham City Football Club.
This exciting development promotes brand awareness through many sectors of the media.
