BP ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 5 Group chief executives review Dear Shareholder It is a great privilege to give my first review as group chief executive of BP.
2007 was a year of major transition, both for the group and for the oil and gas industry as a whole.
High and volatile prices are challenging assumptions across the industry.
The dated Brent crude oil price set a nominal record of $96.02 per barrel bbl at year-end, driven by continued demand growth and OPEC production cuts.
Given ample supply, spot natural gas prices in the US and Europe declined, with the Henry Hub First of Month Index averaging $6.86 per million British thermal units in 2007, compared with $7.24 the previous year.
Refining margins reached a record quarterly high of $16.66 bbl in the second quarter due to low refinery availability in the US, but fell back to more seasonal levels in the second half.
Safety, people and performance When I took over as group By the end of 2007, the Whiting refinery had recommenced chief executive, the immediate task was to restore the integrity sour crude processing and available distillation capacity exceeded and the efficiency of BPs operations.
I set out three priorities: 300,000 barrels per day b d. At Texas City, we successfully safety, people and performance.
There has been progress in recommissioned the three desulphurization and upgrading units all three areas but there is more to do.
necessary to allow restart of the remaining crude distillation Running safe and reliable operations is our greatest capacity.
The final sour crude unit is mechanically complete and, responsibility.
At the start of 2007, the panel, chaired by former by mid-2008, we expect most of the economic capability to have US Secretary of State James A Baker, III, reported on the been restored.
The Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf of Mexico safety culture across our US refineries, following the tragic is on track to start production by the end of 2008. accident at Texas City in 2005.
We agreed to implement all With output now ramping up from these fields and refineries, its recommendations and accepted the challenge to transform we anticipate that operational momentum will become financial BP into a world leader in process safety.
All parts of the group momentum in the second half of this year and into 2009. are actively working to implement the panels recommendations relevant to their business.
BPs forward agenda Last October, I outlined a forward agenda, A new operating management system, designed to bring designed to make BP a simpler and more efficient organization, greater consistency to our operations, is being introduced.
We with a focus to improve behaviours throughout the business by continue to implement cross-group programmes designed to embedding a high-performance culture.
enhance operations leadership competence at all levels of BP.
The groups long-term future is also being secured.
We made We are redoubling our efforts to make sure we have the significant discoveries in Azerbaijan and Egypt and secured right people in the right places.
Whether it be in our refineries, access to major new sources of oil and gas in Oman and Libya exploring in the ultra deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico, pioneering and an attractive joint venture to access Canadian oil sands.
enhanced oil recovery techniques in Alaska or commencing In 2007, we again replaced more than 100% of our reported operations at the largest wind facility in the US, we know it reserves.
In Russia, our joint venture TNK-BP continued to is our people who make the difference.
Through our alternative energy business, we When it comes to my third priority, our financial performance are investing in the low-carbon energy sources of the future.
Replacement cost profit in 2007 fell 22% Step by step, we are rebuilding the groups momentum to $17,287 million.
Dividends payable in respect of 2007 and strengthening our capability.
I have great confidence in the increased by 16% to 45.50 cents per share.
In sterling strength of our portfolio and our people: I would like to thank terms the increase was 7%.
them all for the way they have responded to the challenge.
We are all committed both to enhancing world energy security and Restoring revenues and reducing complexity The unsatisfactory to meeting the challenge of climate change.
Our task now is to financial performance was primarily a result of two things: missing put BP back where it belongs at the forefront of the industry.
revenues, principally from delayed projects and poor reliability in some of our US refineries: and excessive complexity in the way we manage the business, which has added to costs.
We are resolutely tackling both these issues.
The fourth quarter saw the build-up of operational momentum, with the start-up of six new exploration and production projects, including Atlantis Tony Hayward and King Subsea Pump in the Gulf of Mexico, Greater Plutonio Group Chief Executive in Angola, and Mango and Cashima in Trinidad & Tobago.
