08 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Chief Executives Report For each of these elements we have a number of key performance measurements which help investors understand the scale and rationale for our ambitions.
In this section of the Annual Report we have set out the strategy deployed in our chosen markets and the pre-determined measures of performance.
In the divisional sections that follow we report on the financial and operational performance of all our businesses in greater detail.
Growing the UK franchise Growing our UK businesses remains our number one priority.
In our Retail business we have around 23 million customers to whom we provide a wide range of financial services.
We operate with several brands in the savings, mortgage and unsecured credit markets which allow us to segment and manage more effectively the risk:reward potential of individual customer groupings.
We aim to secure, over time, market shares across our products within a 15%-20% range.
The actual market shares achieved in any operating period are however governed by the sustainability of returns.
This will see us take more or less market share than our central assumptions, as Andy Hornby competitive conditions dictate the right action for the Chief Executive creation of enduring value for shareholders.
In 2007, the disciplined execution of our strategy Key Performance Indicator Estimated UK market shares has resulted in good earnings growth for our shareholders despite dif cult market conditions.
With our multi-brand distribution strength, strong 20 % Mortgages balance sheet and low cost operating platforms, we 16 % Savings are well placed to take opportunities presented by these dif cult markets and deliver good growth in 13 % Banking shareholder value over the next few years.
10 % Personal Loans Our strategy has five key elements designed to 9 % Credit Cards create enduring value for shareholders: 7 % Household Insurance Growing the UK franchise 6 % Investment Targeted international growth 5 % Business Banking Cost leadership 3 % Motor Insurance Capital discipline Colleague development Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Capital discipline Colleague development Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 09 In our Corporate business we continue to concentrate Key Performance Indicator International divisions share of underlying pro t before tax on markets where we have real expertise and can excluding Group Items generate superior returns.
Through a focus on the individual risk:reward characteristics of alternative asset classes, we aim to bring a clear value-enhancing 2007 2006 specialisation to our customer relationships.
Assets are originated on the basis that they will be held on the 13% 11% balance sheet in their entirety, even if subsequently a proportion of debt or equity positions are sold down 09 to other market participants.
This discipline ensures International there is no disconnect between a decision to lend and the potential availability of higher returns through sell down activity when market conditions are supportive.
Cost leadership The HBOS cost leadership ambition relative to the major In our Insurance & Investment businesses we believe we peers is derived from an understanding that it is a source are uniquely well placed to bene t from the opportunities of sustainable competitive advantage.
Cost leadership that being the largest UK liquid saver provides.
This, can provide pricing power and the ability to offer together with ongoing supportive demographics, customers a lower price for the same returns.
It can also gives us a real opportunity to capture a strong share offer the opportunity to capture market share from others of the sector growth in investment sales.
In general without any erosion of credit quality, thereby growing insurance, we offer a range of insurance services from sustainable revenues.
Cost leadership at HBOS does not household to motor cover.
We target growth by aligning mean reduced investment in our businesses but it does our insurance offerings to existing Group customers mean a cultural focus on taking out the least productive with other products and in the wider market to new costs and reinvesting these savings in growing value for customers, both via multi-brand propositions.
Targeted international growth Key Performance Indicator Internationally we continue to grow our businesses by Cost:income ratio taking the formula that has served us so well in the UK to other markets that we understand.
In Australia, where we 40.9 % 2007 have been operating for over 10 years, we are expanding on our strong West Coast presence and are now establishing our Commercial and Retail banking capability 41.0 % 2006 in Eastern Australia.
In Ireland, we are in our second full year of expansion into the provision of retail banking facilities through the now almost complete establishment of a branch network.
In Europe and North America we have increased our distribution capability in our European Financial Services operations and are expanding our 2006 has been restated, as announced on 12 June 2007, to re ect corporate banking activities in the US and Canada.
the divisional reorganisation and the change in fide nition of underlying.
10 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Chief Executives Report continued Capital discipline Colleague development We accept that capital is owned by our shareholders who As we face the unprecedented financial turmoil in expect us to treat it as a scarce resource, deploying it global markets, our focus on colleague development to achieve sustainable returns throughout the economic has never been more important.
Our ability to execute cycle.
As the dislocation in financial markets in 2007 our strategy relies on engaging with, and motivating, has shown, capital strength is also required to cushion all of our colleagues to deliver consistently outstanding against the shocks that are a periodic feature of banking.
Our colleague strategy is therefore Whether capital is utilised for growth, or returned to very clear.
We aim to have the strongest leadership shareholders when surplus, is governed by the stability teams in the sector and we are very clear about the of target capital ratios and the sustainability of returns high expectations of both what our leaders deliver that can be generated by further capital deployment.
We provide all our colleagues with ongoing opportunities to learn and to develop During 2007, the FSA approved our Advanced their careers and we constantly evaluate our efforts to Measurement Approach AMA operational risk and create a positive working environment that re ects the Advanced Internal Ratings Based AIRB credit risk diversity of our colleagues.
We keep all aspects of our waivers and, as from 1 January 2008, we are now reward systems under continuous review to ensure they operating under the Basel II capital ratio regime.
This deliver the right reinforcement in respect of recruitment, advanced capital regime has rede ned both the size retention and motivation.
Through our Colleague and nature of the capital resources available to HBOS Opinion Survey we track our leadership and capability as well as the level of risk weighted assets.
It has not indices as well as employer and product advocacy.
however changed our approach to capital management.
Our Leadership Index is a composite index.
The key Key Performance Indicators performance indicator below shows the percentage Tier 1 Ratio Basel I of colleagues who agreed with 12 statements about good leadership in HBOS.
The Index is derived from our annual Colleague Opinion Survey, conducted by Mori.
7.4 % 2007 Key Performance Indicator Leadership Index % 2006 8.1 76 % Leadership 2007 Tier 1 Ratio Basel II % Leadership 2006 76 % 2007 7.7 7.5 8.5 Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Capital discipline Colleague development Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 Our Performance Liquidity During the dislocation in financial markets in the latter Pro t growth part of 2007, customer deposit growth and the supply Underlying earnings per share increased by 6% to of wholesale funding to HBOS remained strong.
This is after recording negative recent years, prior to the dislocation, we had prudently fair value adjustments on traded investment securities and consistently lengthened the maturity pro le of our of 227m and claims of 135m arising from the 2007 wholesale funding, whilst at the same time diversifying summer oods.
the types and sources of funding.
This has been at some cost to margins during this period but has given 11 Underlying pro t before tax increased by 3% to 5,708m us the necessary exibility to operate in these challenging 2006 5,537m.
Corporate, Insurance & Investment and markets.
We will continue to ensure that we maintain an International all achieved double digit underlying pro t appropriate liquidity pro le consistent with our planned growth, more than offsetting the reduced pro t in Retail business growth.
Pro t before tax decreased by 4% to Growth 5,474m 2006 5,706m, predominantly re ecting the Advances to customers increased by 14% to 430.0bn disposal of Drive in 2006 and the reduction in policyholder 2006 376.8bn, re ecting the strong growth in Corporate tax payable.
22% and International 38%, with lower growth in Retail 7%.
Dividends and capital We have today proposed a final dividend of 32.3p Growth in Corporate lending originations increased resulting in a full year dividend up 18% to 48.9p in the second half re ecting the changing conditions.
However, we continued to approach the market selectively, and despite slower secondary markets At the end of 2007, our Basel I Tier 1 ratio was 7.4% we continued to sell down to hold levels with which we 2006 8.1%, re ecting strong risk weighted asset growth are comfortable.
During 2007, Corporate lending growth in 2007 and our decision not to pursue non-equity capital was 30% before sell downs and 22% after sell downs.
issuance in the latter part of the year.
International lending grew by 38% with growth being delivered across all three businesses re ecting the Basel II continued expansion of our overseas activities.
Basel II capital ratios at 1 January 2008 were 7.7% Tier 1 Basel I 7.4% and 11.0% Total Capital Basel I 11.1%.
Our We enjoyed an extremely strong second half in assessment of our capital strength today under Basel II the mortgage market with our net share of lending remains broadly unchanged from Basel I and thus we increasing to 22% up from 8% in the first half.
As have determined that, going forward, we should set a already announced, we will no longer set half-yearly Basel II Tier 1 target range of 7.5%-8.5%.
or annual net lending targets and will favour pro table growth over market share.
12 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Chief Executives Report continued The cost:income ratio was stable at 40.9% 2006 41.0%.
Customer deposits increased by 15% to 243.2bn We remain committed to cost leadership as a competitive 2006 211.9bn.
As the UKs number one provider advantage, while continuing to invest for pro table future of liquid savings, and with a multi-brand approach to growth in attractive markets.
the savings market, our Retail division saw customer deposits increase by 9%.
In Corporate, deposits Credit quality increased by 12%, and in International by 35%.
Credit experience remained relatively benign throughout 2007.
In common with industry expectations, going UK Investment sales increased by 14% to 16,300m forward we expect some modest deterioration in certain Present Value of New Business Premiums PVNBP sectors and markets, consistent with the general global 2006 14,356m driven by strong growth in economic slowdown.
Bancassurance up 17% and Wealth Management up 26%.
Sales in Intermediary fell 2% as we refocused Impaired loans as a percentage of advances fell to the business around individual pensions and investment 2.07% 2006 2.18%.
Impairment losses increased by business.
General Insurance sales decreased by 1% to 15% to 2,012m 2006 1,742m representing 0.50% 1,761m Gross Written Premiums GWP 2006 1,786m, of average advances 2006 0.48%.
Sales of Repayment Insurance fell by 9%, largely offset by increased sales in Household In Retail, secured impairment losses, continuing to up 5% and Motor up 12%.
re ect the substantial equity in the mortgage book, were only 28m 2006 108m.
As guided, Retail Margins unsecured impairment losses in the second half were The Group net interest margin fell by 9bps to 1.63% lower than in the first half at 576m H1 2007 690m.
The main driver of this reduction was in Retail where margins fell 12bps re ecting the In Corporate, impaired loans are running at a higher level competitive pressure on mortgages in the first half and than the historically low gures seen in 2006 re ecting the increased costs of wholesale funding in the second our reassessment of the outlook for a number of higher half.
In Corporate, margins declined by 19bps as a result risk credits.
Corporate impairment losses were higher of competitive pressures in the first half and changes at 0.61% of average advances 2006 0.50%.
International margins declined by 4bps re ecting the greater proportion of retail business, In International, credit quality remains strong as we particularly in Australia.
continue to diversify the lending book across different geographies and markets.
Ef ciency Underlying net operating income increased by 6% In Treasury, we have not incurred any credit impairments to 12,903m 2006 12,117m.
Underlying net interest and thus we expect that the 227m negative fair value income decreased by 1%, due to the trends in margins.
adjustments taken to the income statement and the Underlying non-interest income increased by 18%, 509m post-tax adjustments taken to the available for primarily re ecting strong growth in Corporate.
sales reserve in the balance sheet will reverse over time.
Underlying operating expenses increased by 7% Taxation to 5,274m 2006 4,908m.
This increase includes Changes in corporation tax rates have resulted in a net 75m of costs associated with our cost ef ciency bene t of 171m to reported attributable pro t arising from programme.
Further investment was incurred in a reduction in deferred tax net liabilities of 178m offset expanding our International operations, in particular by a 7m 10m pre-tax reduction in the value of leasing the continuing rollout of retail branches in Ireland and assets.
This one-off net bene t has been excluded from the commencement of a retail and business banking our underlying results.
The effective tax rate for HBOS in branch opening programme on Australias East Coast.
2007 excluding policyholder tax and the above one-off bene t was 28.0% 2006 28.3%.
Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Capital discipline Colleague development Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 Outlook For our Treasury & Asset Management division, the The current turmoil in global financial markets introduces key focus for our Treasury team is the management of considerable uncertainty into the plans of all financial our funding and liquidity during the financial markets institutions.
We are planning on the assumptions that dislocation.
We entered this period con dent in our market conditions will remain uncertain throughout 2008. funding pro le and capital base.
This has served us well and we intend to maintain robust liquidity and In Retail, in this environment we will continue to favour capital positions going forward.
The negative fair value pro table growth over market share.
Over the last five adjustments taken in 2007 to the Income Statement months we have seen mortgage prices adjust in the and Balance Sheet, which were in respect of non-credit 13 light of increased funding costs.
Our strong multi-brand impaired investment securities, are expected to reverse savings franchise has been to the fore in 2007 and we out over time as financial markets stabilise and the expect to see strong deposit growth in 2008, despite relevant assets approach maturity.
an expected increase in competition for retail funds.
The UK economy is forecast to grow by around In Corporate, we are now moving into a cycle where the 2.0%-2.25% this year, just below the long run trend strong contribution from our investment portfolio will give rate.
Employment is very high and the Bank of England way to a more balanced contribution from origination may well announce further rate cuts during the year.
We expect the UK economy to move over time from being consumption led to a better balance between We continue to see good growth potential in the consumer demand and a higher level of savings by UK Insurance & Investment contribution to Group pro t as householders.
We expect house price growth to be at in the size of our investment in-force business increases to 2008.
Sound fundamentals underpin the housing market, mitigate the strain from new business.
We also continue in particular, record levels of employment and a continuing to see good prospects for sales growth in both insurance shortage of new properties.
We expect financial markets to be dif cult in 2008 but Whilst our International businesses pro t performance will our combination of balance sheet strength, diversi ed be more restrained in 2008 as we increase our investment business mix and stringent cost control, together with in their future, we remain con dent that this investment will relative margin stability, leaves us well positioned to take also underpin stronger pro t growth in future years.
opportunities presented in these markets and deliver good growth in shareholder value over the next few years.
