CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We are confident we can continue to meet the expectations of our shareholders.
Paul Adams Chief Executive Group numbers 2007 2007 was another very good year For example, we have recently for British American Tobacco.
We announced the acquisition of both the maintained the strong momentum cigarette assets of Tekel, the Turkish of the past five years as we made state-owned tobacco company, and 26,234 million progress in all areas of our Group 100 per cent of the cigarette and snus Gross turnover including duty, strategy Growth, Productivity, business belonging to Skandinavisk excise and other taxes Responsibility and building a Tobakskompagni, our associate Winning Organisation.
As a result, our market positions will be significantly Since 2002, our organic growth 10,018 million strengthened in Turkey, Denmark, has been driven by our Global Drive Revenue Sweden, Norway and Poland.
Brands GDBs, which have been rising by an average of over 10 per cent per annum, resulting in a 62 per cent 3,003 million increase over the last five years.
This 62% Profit from operations, excluding is partly due to successful innovations, Increase in GDB volumes over exceptional items that have real appeal to our consumers, five years and the roll-out of our GDBs into new markets.
As detailed on pages 20 and 21, 108.53 pence We have achieved volume growth in we have delivered over 1 billion Adjusted diluted earnings per share developing markets, such as Russia, of productivity savings over the last Nigeria and Pakistan.
More than half of our entered new markets, such as Turkey, worldwide manufacturing capacity has Bulgaria and Kazakhstan.
been restructured to achieve greater 86 million efficiencies.
Additionally, we are Research and development expenditure While our growth has been boosted conducting extensive reorganisations by previous merger and acquisition to enhance our market effectiveness activities, including the purchase of and achieve above-market synergies.
Ente Tabacchi Italiani, the Reynolds 53,907 American transaction and the Margins have improved over the Employees acquisition in Peru, there has also last five years.
Profit from operations, been steady and notable organic excluding exceptional items, has risen growth.
This will be the basis for from 24 per cent of revenue in 2002, 684 billion achieving our future targets, to 30 per cent in 2007.
Not content Group cigarette volumes, supported by further acquisitions with that, we have announced our excluding associates as opportunities arise.
target to achieve a further 800 million savings over the next five years.
10 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW go online at www.
com annualreport2007 We have been pursuing our Tobacco regulation has been on the British American Tobaccos market Responsibility strategy with the same rise in recent years.
This will continue positions, in both developed and rigour as Growth and Productivity with, for example, further restrictions on developing economies, mean we targets.
smoking in public places and workplaces.
are strongly positioned to benefit from increases in industry profits.
Our increased investment in research As national regulations increasingly and development really kicked off reflect global influences, the scope of Competitive landscape in 2005.
Developing new products areas regulated will further expand, The recent round of consolidation which meet consumer needs and are particularly in the design features of means that our competition has recognised by scientific and regulatory cigarettes, such as setting ceilings got stronger.
However, we have the authorities as reduced-risk, remains for tar and nicotine content and geographic spread, brand portfolio, top of our agenda.
increasing restrictions on advertising innovation pipeline and global scale and promotions.
to continue to compete and win.
In 2007, we test-marketed snus in Canada and ran a limited consumer Illicit trade remains a key challenge In 2008, we will continue to sharpen test in Japan, in addition to our and is fuelled by many factors including our focus on growing our GDBs, existing presence in Sweden, Norway tax-driven price increases, poor achieving stretching productivity and South Africa.
enforcement of borders, weak laws, targets and practising high standards loosely regulated Free Trade Zones, of corporate responsibility, a lack of intellectual property rights underpinned by continuing efforts to protection and the growth of the build a winning organisation.
These 1 billion internet as a trading medium.
We combined efforts will place us in a Productivity savings over five years estimate that 330 billion cigarettes strong position to keep winning in a year are smuggled, manufactured the marketplace.
I believe we are becoming a truly illegally or counterfeited.
global enterprise our people are We remain fully committed to tackling aligned with our strategy and are the problem, and are liaising with 5 trillion relentless in executing it.
We are governments, customs and law rigorous with our recruitment Cigarettes sold in the world enforcement agencies around the policies, performance management world.
We also support the World and succession planning.
We will Conclusion Health Organisations development continue to ensure we have the In an industry confronted with of a global treaty specifically to address right people on board to tackle the challenges, British American Tobacco the problem of the growing global challenges ahead with confidence.
We are seeing trade in illicit tobacco products.
positive trends in share growth and Industry outlook Where does this leave us?
margins through improved product The world market has consistently mix and lower costs across our exceeded five trillion cigarettes over Despite these challenges, we expect key markets.
the profitability of the global industry to increase over the next five years.
We are confident we can continue This is predominantly propelled by to meet the expectations of our year-on-year growth in China which Some of this increase will be due shareholders.
Our strategy and has offset the softening of volumes to consumers up-trading, leading to business model are clear.
We from the rest of the world, especially higher volumes of premium-priced have been consistently effective in higher-value markets such as brands.
We expect this trend to be in executing them and this success America-Pacific and Western Europe.
most marked in developing markets, will continue.
This trend is expected to continue where we expect most of the future into the next decade.
profit growth of the industry to come from.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 11 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
