Business review ICAP plc 12 Annual Report 2007 Group Chief Executive Officers review Michael Spencer Once again I will restate our strategic goals, which have been clear and These record results show a very strong performance consistent for several years: to be the leading global intermediary in the from ICAP: especially when factoring in the very wholesale OTC markets by a clear margin.
Our aim is to have at least sharp decline in the value of the US dollar in which a 35% share of overall market revenue and generate 50% of our profit from electronic broking.
This year we made good progress towards these we earn the majority of our revenue.
goals with the acquisition of EBS in June 2006.
We have increased our share of global interdealer market revenues to an estimated 30%31%.
We have made significant progress towards our We have grown rapidly and also acquired some great companies vision: to create the global exchange for OTC to create a stronger business that sets the standard for both voice and financial products and to build a global brand in electronic broking.
As we have grown we have evolved and now have wholesale financial services.
We believe that we a very significant technology-based business, an extensive global network as well as the leading voice broking business.
We believe can provide the service our customers need by that this combination is very valuable.
There is no other business that combining the strengths of our people together shares our combination of voice and electronic market leadership with technology and that by doing so we aim to in OTC products coupled with such a wide geographic reach.
continue setting the standard for our industry.
Last years acquisition of EBS has proved an outstanding success.
The combination of its electronic spot foreign exchange and ICAPs fixed income electronic broking businesses has created a global multi-product platform that we believe has further major growth potential.
The integration of the ICAP and EBS businesses is making very good progress and we are on track to deliver total technology and other related savings of at least $58 million per annum by the financial year ending in March 2009.
This is now the largest electronic broking business in our industry with an estimated 44% market share and has significant economies of scale through combining and leveraging technology, networks and platforms.
The combined global network covers more than 1,600 customer installations in 45 countries plus a further 550 users that have secure internet access.
Business review ICAP plc 13 Annual Report 2007 As the more liquid, standardised products continue to migrate to our Looking ahead electronic platforms, our voice broking franchise in structured and We are taking steps to complete the integration of EBS, to extend our complex products, energy, credit, equity derivatives and less liquid electronic broking business into an increasing number of markets with markets continues to enjoy high growth.
We believe that our voice highly liquid, commoditised products and to continue the expansion of broking activities also have material room for expansion due to product our voice broking business into more structured products.
This years results amply demonstrate the success of this Activity in our markets is driven by the volatility generated from a part of our strategy of retaining market leadership in both voice and broad range of influences, over which we have no control.
We aim to electronic broking.
achieve secular growth from increasing market share and expanding This year ICAPs revenue derived from businesses acquired or started product coverage.
in the previous three years was a very healthy 16%, up from 12% Our strategy is to grow in our industry, both organically and by selective in the previous financial year.
There are an increasing number of expansion opportunities Our success is based on our ability to move quickly in response to the for the Group, both large and small, as the worlds financial markets changes and opportunities our customers identify in the rapidly evolving grow and the current levels of financial innovation continue.
ICAP is wholesale financial services marketplace.
We recognise and reward new well placed to make further acquisitions and fund the development ideas and set new standards of innovation through a combination of of the Group using its existing financial resources and if necessary people and technology.
We have a culture of working in partnership with by raising additional debt financing.
our customers: in particular we recognise their concerns as the more Our markets continue to display strong long-term structural growth.
commoditised markets migrate to electronic broking and we co-operate We currently estimate that the underlying annual growth rate of industry with them so that they can continue to service their customers in the revenues, in the medium-term, will be between 7% and 9%, though most efficient manner.
there are periods when volatility and volumes in our markets can be In a business where we do not control the overall market activity levels very high.
While we have not experienced high levels of volatility at the that drive our revenue we rely heavily on the quality of our management beginning of this year, underlying revenues are ahead of last year.
team to drive up our operating profit margins through market share We have built this business to a very strong competitive position in our growth and tight cost control and to extract the scale economies that markets with a strong balance sheet and a very capable management make these businesses so sustainable.
In addition, a key measure of our team.
We have the resources and flexibility to create new business management team is our ability to recruit and retain the highest quality initiatives and drive the growth of our business.
people: brokers, marketing and sales staff, support departments, technologists and many others.
