IG Group Holdings plc Chief Executives Report Report and Financial Statements 2007 We have now achieved compound annual growth of approximately 40% over nine years Chief Executives Report evenue growth of 36% this year continues a long For much of the year equity volatility was subdued, although running trend we have now achieved compound we saw a brief upward spike in volatility at the end of February annual growth of approximately 40% over nine years.
Such volatility can put pressure on trading R systems the number of clients logging in, the number of We highlighted in our interim results that this had been a transactions and the number of price updates all increase period of significant investment for future growth and that dramatically as volatility rises.
Our systems coped admirably this temporarily impacted EBITDA margins in the first half.
with these conditions and we had no down-time at all during In the second half we achieved an EBITDA margin of 60.3%, this period of extreme volatility.
The scalability and robustness compared to 54.5% in the first half.
This brought the margin for of our internet dealing platform should become increasingly the year as a whole to 57.7%.
important factors in the recruitment of clients, both directly and when signing up introducers and white label partners.
The increase in IT staff over the last year gives us considerably more ability to develop our software.
Clients can now deal Our CFD business has increased its geographic reach with us using their BlackBerry or mobile phone, our internet substantially over the last year with revenue from Europe dealing platform, or our Direct Market Access platform, L2.
We have therefore presented a more detailed Application Program Interface technology gives clients the geographic analysis of revenues in these results.
ability to route orders through us directly into an underlying exchange.
We have a range of tools specifically for introducers Financial betting and white label partners to enable them to view and manage Our financial betting revenue grew from 56.4m to 68.8m, an the activity of their underlying clients.
Technology is an area increase of 22% with similar rates of growth in both financial where we believe we have a strong competitive advantage and spread betting and financial binary betting.
As I have said we continue to enhance and improve all of these systems in before, financial binaries are viewed by most of our clients as order to maintain this position.
an adjunct to the rest of our financial product range, rather than as a stand-alone product.
In the segmental analysis of our Financial results we have therefore included financial binaries as part of financial rather than separately analysing them.
Our financial business performed strongly with revenue up 37% to 109.8m.
Across our spread betting and CFD businesses In January we launched TradeSense, a client education we opened 22,500 accounts this year, compared to 15,750 the program for new spread betting clients.
This has proved very previous year, an increase of 43%.
popular and has had a beneficial impact on our recruitment of clients.
Since January the number of accounts opened has exceeded 1,000 each month.
This compares to levels of around 800 per month in the autumn.
Conversion rates have also increased.
IG Group Holdings plc 2 Report and Financial Statements 2007 Chief Executives Report UK CFD revenue grew by 90% to 15.9m We have just launched PureDeal, our UK CFD Europe new browser-based dealing platform UK CFD revenue grew by 90% to Our revenue from Europe grew by 126% for financial spread betting.
Within the UK most retail clients from 5.2m to 11.8m and now accounts this launch we have introduced Price gravitate towards spread betting rather for 10% of total revenue.
Several different Improvement technology across both than CFDs but we have seen excellent initiatives drove this growth.
Last spread betting and CFDs if a better growth in our UK CFD client base this autumn we set up an office in Germany, price is available when a clients order year.
These clients include professionally and an Italian desk based in London.
is executed we give the client the managed funds, corporate clients, In Ireland we have relationships with improved price.
PureDeal also features clients introduced by stockbrokers or the majority of the large private client rapid one-click dealing, a customisable trading advisors and individuals who advisory stock brokers who introduce user interface and a much greater depth are attracted by our Direct Market clients to us.
As well as these country of information as well as Reuters news Access platform, L2.
During the spring specific initiatives we have clients in and a sophisticated charting package the London Stock Exchange ran a every country in Europe, some direct and with the ability to back-test trading promotional campaign highlighting the some via our ever expanding network of strategies.
benefits of Direct Market Access and introducers.
we simultaneously ran advertising to The launch of PureDeal and Price The Markets in Financial Instruments promote L2.
Improvement are intended to reinforce Directive comes into force at the our position as the market leader The quality of our L2 software is a beginning of November.
This harmonises in spread betting.
The technology significant driver of the growth of the regulation of financial instruments, underpinning PureDeal, along with our CFD business worldwide and which include CFDs, across Europe and Reuters news and analytics will be rolled we continue to devote significant IT will make it significantly easier for us to out across our remaining websites over development time to enhancing its do business in some parts of Europe.
Our plans are now well advanced to open offices in Paris and Madrid.
We have recruited local senior management for both operations and we aim to open these offices in the second quarter of the current year.
Revenue million Germany, Italy, Spain and France all 130 have large, affluent populations, with 120 significant interest in online share 110 trading and with active warrants 100 markets.
All of these factors make them 90 attractive markets to us.
80 We have no current plans to open CAGR 40% 70 offices in the other countries of Europe, 60 although this is something which we will 50 keep under close review.
Our approach to the remainder of Europe is to seek 40 local partners who can offer our CFDs 30 to their clients.
These partners may be 20 advisory stockbrokers, or they may be 10 online brokers who wish to offer a white 0 label of our dealing software to their clients.
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 IG Group Holdings plc 3 Chief Executives Report Report and Financial Statements 2007 Our revenue from Europe grew by 126% and now accounts for 10% of total revenue The success that we have had in Ireland The year-on-year growth in revenues that but there are a number of significant demonstrates that, with the right we saw in Australia was distorted by very areas where trading in foreign exchange partners, it is possible to develop a strong comparative figures, particularly forex is both permitted by the significant business in a country via in the spring of 2006 when we saw regulatory regime and popular with introducers rather than marketing extremely high levels of Australian retail clients.
These include the US, Japan directly to clients.
client activity in volatile precious metal and much of Asia.
Year-on-year revenue growth in of our financial revenue this year.
The Asia Pacific both May and June 2007 was higher than majority of this was from spread betting for the year as a whole.
Revenue from clients located in the Asia Pacific region grew by 38% to 12.7m.
We established our Singapore office The launch of our igforex.
com website in The vast majority of these clients deal towards the end of the 2006 financial January was the first step in our plans to with either our Australian or Singapore year, and revenue in that year was broaden our forex offering.
This year the office that this site generates is still small, but has delivered revenue of 800,000, 71% is growing rapidly.
At the moment this The number of accounts opened by our of which arose in the second half.
site is in English only and we intend to Australian office this year was almost add other languages to the site in the twice that of the prior year.
Client Rest of World coming months as we begin to extend recruitment was particularly strong its international reach.
Within the next in the final quarter of the financial As our plans for expansion across few months we will also be able to year following improvements to our Europe advance, we are now focusing offer clients the ability to execute their online account opening process.
As we increasingly on opportunities in the rest forex business using our DMA platform, reported in January, our Australian office of the world.
Regulatory restrictions L2, and we continue to examine other had muted growth in the first quarter, as limit our ability to offer our full financial opportunities to extend the reach of our the volatility of May and June 2006 led to product set in many parts of the world, forex offering.
clients reducing their activity for a couple of months.
Sport This was another year of strong growth from our sports business with revenue Number of transactions Australia up 35% to 12.2m.
This growth came from both spread betting, up 14% to 140,000 8.7m, and fixed odds, up 143% to 3.5m.
120,000 Fixed odds comprise three offerings: sports binary bets, extrabet and market 100,000 making into betting exchanges.
We manage our risk on a unified basis 80,000 across these three offerings and, where necessary, utilise the exchanges 60,000 to hedge our risk.
This has given us increasing ability to deal with clients who 40,000 want to bet in large size and extrabet is beginning to gain recognition as a 20,000 bookmaker with the appetite to take sizeable bets from large clients.
0 Jun 03 Sep 03 Dec 03 Mar 04 Jun 04 Sep 04 Dec 04 Mar 05 Jun 05 Sep 05 Dec 05 Mar 06 Jun 06 Sep 06 Dec 06 Mar 07 Jun 07 IG Group Holdings plc 4 Report and Financial Statements 2007 Chief Executives Report The number of accounts opened by our Australian office was almost twice that of the prior year Current trading and outlook We are only a few weeks into the new financial year, but it has started well.
A slight increase in equity market volatility meant that we achieved a new record level of monthly revenue in June.
Account opening since the year end has continued at the strong levels seen in the final months of the last financial year.
A number of factors should continue to drive growth in the coming year.
Our new PureDeal platform and Price Improvement technology are clear competitive differentiators, as is our L2 direct market access platform.
TradeSense has had a beneficial impact on our recruitment and conversion of UK spread betting clients, and we hope to replicate this success with its recent launch in Australia.
Our recently opened German, Italian and Singaporean operations have all delivered good revenue in their early months, providing a solid base from which to deliver further growth.
They will be joined this year by French and Spanish operations.
Introducers, particularly in Ireland and the UK, have delivered significant growth in the last year, and we continue to expand our network of introducers around the world.
I look forward to the coming year with confidence.
Tim Howkins Chief Executive 23 July 2007 IG Group clients IG Group clients but no betting clients IG Group Holdings plc 5 Chief Executives Report Report and Financial Statements 2007
