58.4 06 07 68.4 05 06 67.4 04 05 72.6 03 04 69.5 02 03 TWh British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 06 Chief Executives Business review We remain focused on our strategy to improve the long-term reliability of our power stations.
We are well positioned to build on the foundations we have laid through investment in our people, plant and processes.
overview our routes to market include direct sales T O T A L O U T P U T this year has presented us with many to industrial and commercial customers, challenges, two of which, the boilers at contracting in the wholesale market, hinkley point B and hunterston B, and together with sales of balancing and the cooling water system at hartlepool, ancillary services to national grid.
We resulted in significant outages.
Although are an active market participant in the we delivered a strong financial result, wholesale electricity market, which contributing adjusted EBitDA of over includes generators, suppliers, trading 1.2bn, technical issues at a number businesses and large industrial of our stations had a significant adverse consumers of electricity.
however, there are improvements in many We aim to maintain British Energys of our key nuclear metrics.
We have leading market position and maximise reorganised our management value to our shareholders by focusing structure to align more closely with on our strategic priorities of: the technology across the fleet.
And achieving world class nuclear we remain focused on our strategy to operations: improve the long-term reliability of our improving financial stability through power stations, building on an improved delivery of our trading strategy: knowledge of the health of the plant.
pursuing life extensions for our stations: and bn We are well positioned to build on the positioning British Energy for 1.2 foundations we have laid through participating in nuclear new build.
investment in our people, plant and A D J u s t E D E B i t D A o F o v E r 1.
in addition, we have made safety and environmental performance excellent progress in strengthening our will always remain our fundamental fixed price trading book, improving price priority.
certainty for financial year 2007 08 and beyond.
i am optimistic about the outlook We measure our performance against our for the Company as we work to deliver a strategic priorities and our safety and result of which we can be proud.
environmental performance by reference to a number of key performance market and strategic priorities indicators.
these include output, As the uKs largest electricity generator, unplanned Capability Loss Factor uCLF, British Energy plays an important role in unplanned Automatic trips uAt, Lost maintaining the quality of life of people time Accidents LtA, and environmental throughout the uK.
For trading performance and that we take very seriously.
We make financial stability, measures include the single largest contribution to the extending the fixed price trading book, uKs targets for reducing carbon dioxide average realised power prices achieved emissions.
the carbon footprint of our and the level of zero capped collateral nuclear plants is insignificant compared sales.
to other forms of baseload generation and comparable to that of wind power, making us the lowest carbon emitter of the major uK electricity generators.
British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 07 the progress against our strategic priorities and key performance indicators is U N P L A N N E D C A P A B I L I T Y L O S S F A C T O R discussed in the following sections.
operations review Nuclear Stations our nuclear output for the year was 51.2tWh 9.2tWh lower than last years output of 60.4tWh and significantly below our original plan.
uCLF increased to 23% compared with 13% in the previous year.
the table below compares nuclear station output and uCLF for 2006 07 and 2005 06.
2006 07 2005 06 output uCLF output uCLF nuclear station tWh % tWh % Dungeness B 4.5 24 5.5 17 hartlepool 5.6 31 5.2 38 heysham 1 7.5 12 6.6 18 heysham 2 9.4 6 9.2 5 hinkley point B 4.2 46 7.7 9 hunterston B 3.5 53 7.9 10 N U C L E A R R E P O R T A B L E E V E N T S torness 7.6 13 9.4 6 sizewell B 8.9 0 8.9 5 total output 51.2 60.4 average uclf 23 13 sizewell B, our pWr power station, has these prolonged unplanned outages had a period of excellent performance at hinkley point B and hunterston B achieving a continuous run of 471 days resulted in 9.4tWh of losses and were between its refuelling outages in May the main reason for the reduction in 2005 and september 2006. the station nuclear output and increase in uCLF.
also completed its biggest ever outage Both units at hartlepool were also taken which included replacement of the out of service from late september reactor pressure vessel head and 2006 to December 2006 for repairs upgrade of the refuelling machine.
to cast iron cooling water pipe work.
the outage was completed ahead this resulted in losses of 2.0tWh.
of the initial plan with no lost time accidents, nuclear reportable events in addition to these major unplanned m or environmental events.
sizewell B outages, there were 8.6tWh 290 has once again operated at world 2005 06: 6.5tWh of smaller losses of class standard levels since completing under 1tWh each, outage and refuelling i n v E s t E D i n p L A n t i n 2 0 0 6 0 7 the outage in october 2006. under overruns resulting in a net loss of 0.3tWh 2005 06: 0.4tWh and We completed statutory outages on units planned losses of 0.7tWh.
the total at Dungeness B, hartlepool and torness.
unplanned and non-routine loss for the one unit at hinkley point B and one at year was 21.0tWh, which compares hunterston B also started their statutory with 12.9tWh for the previous year outages in the year.
planned inspections an unsatisfactory performance.
showed higher than expected levels of boiler tube cracking, extending these last Within the small losses, there are a two outages for further inspections and number of plant issues that were not repairs.
the remaining units at hinkley fully resolved during the year.
the point B and hunterston B were output from one unit at heysham 1 subsequently taken out of service for was reduced during the year to limit early inspection and repair.
All four units the surface temperature of the hot Box 1 remained on outage throughout the rest Dome.
Also Dungeness Bs refuelling of the year.
An update on the progress outages were extended as a temporary of the boiler issues and the return to measure to mitigate the possibility service of the units is included under following the failure of certain welds outlook for 2007 08.
1 the hot Box Dome separates the hot and cold gas flows in the Agr reactors.
British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 08 Chief Executives Business review 2 within the Fuel plug units.
heysham 2 We have continued our investment Eggborough has experienced difficulties with their strategy under which we address output from Eggborough, our coalfuelling machine which, although not plant losses through replacement fired plant, was 7.2tWh for the year resulting in material losses, is still and repair, coupled with risk mitigation compared with 8.0tWh in 2005 06. undergoing investigation.
An update on and essential works to improve the unlike the nuclear stations which these issues is included under outlook prospects of life extensions.
During the operate as baseload plant, Eggborough for 2007 08. year we made significant investment in operates as flexible generation.
We plant to address emergent issues continue to maximise Eggboroughs Despite the disappointing output immediately affecting operations contribution by optimising its running figures, it is important that we continue including the repair of cast iron against changing power, coal and to focus on our goal of achieving world pipework at Dungeness B and carbon prices and by managing the class nuclear operations.
We took our hartlepool, inspection and repair of relevant environmental constraints.
first step towards achieving this goal boiler tubes at hinkley point B and Eggborough has made a significant in our performance improvement hunterston B and inspection of the financial contribution this year, reflecting programme pip in 2003 04 to develop boiler closure units at hartlepool and our success in capturing favourable and initiate the changes required to heysham 1.
We also invested in nuclear dark spreads.
the dark spread is the improve our performance.
As a result and environmental protection price of electricity less the cost of coal of the recommendations from pip we programmes, including the periodic and carbon.
have targeted investment to improve safety reviews, and essential works to leadership, culture, and human prolong the life of our assets, such as Eggborough has elected to operate performance as well as plant materiel the replacement of the reactor vessel within the national Emission reduction condition and management of plant head at sizewell B.
During the year we plan nErp regime under the Large ageing issues.
in addition, we have invested 290m in our assets excluding Combustion plant Directive LCpD, adopted best practices from around the approximately 24m incurred in which comes into force on 1 January world and have made changes in our connection with boiler issues at hinkley 2008. the plant will continue to operate organisational structure to improve point B and hunterston B. at levels broadly consistent with operational focus and delivery of generation achieved during the last five work.
With many of the foundations the full benefits of the improvement years.
As indicated last year, we keep for improvement in place we have programme and investment were under review the option of mothballing transferred responsibility for continuous certainly not evident in this years one of the non-FgD units.
output but we are pleased with the improvements in our key performance Safety Performance During the year we revised our corporate indicators which should result in the safety of the general public, structure to replace the positions of improved future output.
employees, environment and plant Chief nuclear officer and Deputy Chief is fundamental to British Energy.
the nuclear officer with a Chief technical uAts which are a source of unplanned reinforcement of appropriate cultural officer and three regional Chief nuclear losses were reduced to eight in the year behaviours continues to receive a high officers Cnos all of whom report to compared to 12 in 2005 06 and 15 in profile.
improved safety performance me as the Chief Executive.
We have 2004 05. the number of non-outage is delivered through the continued grouped our stations into three regions, defects, a measure of the efficiency of improvement in the materiel condition according to technology, each under our work management processes, was of our plant and by the development a single Cno.
this allows the Cnos reduced to 369 by the end of the year, of our staff.
to focus on station operations, compared to 541 at the end of 2005 06 performance improvement and station and 3,722 at the end of 2004 05. nuclear safety is generally measured life extensions and to ensure that the heysham 2 has recorded the best six against the international nuclear Events stations receive appropriate support, year uCLF average of the Agr fleet.
During 2006 07 we had share solutions and that our focus torness has operated for over two years no nuclear safety events rated higher and strategy is correctly aligned and without an employee LtA and over 1,000 than inEs Level 1, which represents proportionate.
the re-alignment of our days without a contractor LtA.
We have events that are operating anomalies technical support functions under the also seen a significant reduction in with no impact on the safety of the Chief technical officer further supports losses attributable to boiler feed pumps, general public or our workforce.
in prioritisation and focus of our activities an historic source of losses, as a result addition, we also monitor the number in ongoing improvements across the of investment and a concerted drive for of nuclear reportable Events.
We have also transferred improvement.
reduced to 22 in 2006 07 from 36 3 the responsibility for Design Authority events in 2005 06 a reduction of to the safety and technical Director to almost 40%.
further strengthen independence of the oversight function.
2 the Fuel plug unit is the upper part of the fuel assembly.
3 our Design Authority department is responsible for ensuring that safety case requirements are clearly defined and fulfilled during plant operation and modifications.
B u s i n E s s r E v i E W British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 09 radiation exposure to workers increased 3.
Minor incident: and 4. incidents that year from around 55 MWh at the start in the year due to the increased boiler have no impact.
During 2006 07 we of April 2006 to a low of 27 MWh in inspection and repair work at hinkley have had 18 events at category three February 2007 recovering slightly to point B and hunterston B and the or four compared with 22 in 2005 06, around 32 MWh by the end of March replacement of the reactor pressure and no major or significant incidents.
2007 a net fall of around 42% over vessel head at sizewell B. these tasks to challenge and improve, we have the financial year.
there were similar involved increased access to plant with developed our own categories for falls in the forward price of electricity higher radiation levels.
the Collective measuring environmental events, much for future years as well.
Electricity radiation Dose was 0.176mansv per more demanding than those of the prices have been largely driven by reactor in the year compared to Environment Agency.
events in the gas and carbon markets.
0.074mansv per reactor in 2005 06. gas prices fell during the year, in part however, even at this increased level, All radioactive waste produced by our due to the anticipated availability of the Companys performance in this area power stations is highly regulated and new gas pipelines and subsequent remains within the upper quartile of controlled to minimise and control gas flows, together with unusually nuclear reactors worldwide.
During the course of the mild weather in winter 2006 07. individual dose at 0.197msv and the year none of our stations exceeded the phase i carbon prices fell from just highest individual dose of 11.7msv were relevant authorised discharge limits.
under 30 tCo at the beginning of 2 both much lower than the statutory limit the financial year 2006 07 to around of 20msv.
given the volume of work We have now completed the creation 1 tCo by 31 March 2007 due to the 2 with higher radiation exposure, we of groundwater monitoring networks announcement of excess allowances requested an independent audit of our at each of our eight nuclear sites outside the uK.
in the same period the processes for managing and recording and these are being employed to price of phase ii 2008 carbon credits radiation dose at hinkley point B and provide routine surveillance on fell from around 33 tCo to end at 2 hunterston B which confirmed that groundwater quality.
the price of coal for 2 correct procedures had been followed delivery to European ports traded in throughout these works to minimise gale Common ash disposal site, which the range $58-$74 tn compared with personnel exposure.
receives waste ash from Eggborough, $50-$70 tn in the previous year.
recently secured a pollution prevention the total number of LtAs for all and Control ppC licence from the our realised price for the financial year employees and contractors working at Environment Agency EA covering 2006 07 was 44.2 MWh, an increase our nuclear sites and support functions ongoing operations.
however, its of 12.2 MWh compared with last in 2006 07 was 22, a slight increase capacity is currently limited and a project years realised price of 32.0 MWh.
compared to the 19 LtAs in 2005 06 has been undertaken to develop part of the contract portfolio includes profiled but still well below our recent historic the site to provide capacity through to contracts both wholesale and direct performance 41 in 2003 04 and 38 2015.
An application for planning sales and therefore the contracted in 2002 03.
We remain focused on consent has been submitted following price is not directly comparable to a reducing the number of LtAs and the statutory consultation process.
A high reinforcing our safety culture through proportion of our planned output was regular training and assessment.
financial stability from our covered by fixed price contracts at the trading strategy beginning of the year which protected We have continued to enhance the the key objective of our trading strategy our realised price from the fall in market nuclear safety culture within the is to improve British Energys financial prices during the year.
however, the Company and during 2006 07 we stability.
this includes maximising realised price does still include the carried out over 400 workshops, the income from our power stations: impact of a small number of fixed and encompassing over 6,700 staff and minimising the market costs associated capped price contracts entered into contractors, to strengthen our nuclear with the unreliability of our nuclear several years ago when significantly safety culture behaviours.
stations: and increasing the length of lower market prices prevailed.
one of the fixed price proportion of our trading these contracts, for 5tWh at subEnvironmental Performance book.
We aim to do this using zero- 20 MWh level, ended on 1 April 2007.
A key measure of our environmental collateral and collateral efficient routes performance is the number of to market which reduce our financial During the year we succeeded in environmental events.
the significance exposure to price volatility.
significantly lengthening the weighted of an environmental event is measured average end-point of the fixed against the Environment Agencys this year we have again seen high structured portfolio and in increasing incident and compliance volatility in the electricity market.
the the volume of zero capped collateral classification schemes which include annual baseload price of electricity for trades.
the contract position for four categories.
in brief these are: 1. delivery in the period from April 2007 2007 08 and 2008 09 is discussed Major incident: 2. significant incident: to March 2008 fell during the financial further in outlook for 2007 08.
British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 10 Chief Executives Business review in addition to our wholesale sales, extension of these stations to our Board in February we invited proposals from British Energy Direct delivered around for decision by March 2008. potential partners to work with us in 29tWh of electricity during the financial developing, building and operating new year 2006 07 and signed contracts for Although the nuclear installations nuclear stations.
the partnering the supply of around 59tWh including inspectorate are not required to agree process is underway and there has future year deliveries.
As at 31 March the accounting lives of our stations, currently been an encouraging response 2007 British Energy Direct were we are required, as a condition of our from a wide range of interested parties.
supplying 1,662 customers across nuclear site Licences, to submit a We are progressing early optioneering 9,365 sites within the uK.
periodic safety review psr every work on sites and designs and this will 10 years, demonstrating the safety continue in parallel with facilitating Cash collateral and cash held for of each station over the next 10 years action by government on strategic siting variation margin calls was 141m as at of operation.
During the year, we assessment, permitting, licensing, 31 March 2007, compared to 201m as submitted psrs to the nii for hinkley waste management and emissions at 31 March 2006 and reached a peak point B and hunterston B.
As of the process, we have agreed to a at 31 March 2007, we had committed programme of work at a cost of outlook for 2007 08 letter of credit facilities available to approximately 4.5m, which, once Operations support collateral calls of 300m.
completed to the niis satisfaction, We will be commencing five statutory will mean that we should not need to outages during 2007 08 on units at our focus on minimising the balancing submit further psrs for these stations hartlepool, heysham 1, heysham 2, costs associated with unplanned losses before 2017. sizewell B and torness power stations.
has resulted in illiquidity costs of less our nuclear output to 20 May 2007 was than 1 MWh despite the extended new nuclear build 6.6tWh after total unplanned losses of outages at hinkley point B and the government concluded in its 2.1tWh.
the majority of the unplanned hunterston B.
Energy review report of July 2006 that losses 1.9tWh have been due to the nuclear has a role to play in the future continued effect of boiler works at We have continued to develop our generating mix alongside other low hinkley point B and hunterston B. trading and risk management carbon options.
the consultation capabilities to better manage price process that led to this conclusion Following the completion of all boiler volatility.
We are part way through an was challenged in the courts and the inspections, necessary repair work and investment programme to upgrade our government accepted it should carry the submission of safety cases to the trading it systems which will improve out a further consultation.
on 23 May nii, we received consent during May to the ability to manage risk, optimise 2007, a White paper on Energy was return all of the units at hinkley point B value and to meet our customers published along with a consultation and hunterston B to service.
on the future of nuclear power.
this load will be raised incrementally to consultation will run until 10 october maintain boiler temperatures within During the year we entered into 2007, and after considering the the levels identified during the boiler a contract with the nuclear responses government will decide assessments and we expect steady Decommissioning Authority nDA under before the end of the year whether output to be reached at about 70% load.
which we sell the nDAs electrical output the private sector should be two units have been returned to service from its two Magnox nuclear power allowed the option of building new and the remaining two are expected to stations over their remaining lives.
the estimated impact of the reduced load over the remainder of pursuing life extensions We believe that British Energy brings the year, which has been previously hinkley point B and hunterston B, capabilities and assets which are reported, will be affected by the timing which currently have accounting lives scarce in the uK and which will add of return to service and load achieved.
of 35 years, are closest to their planned significant value to any programme closure dates.
We are therefore of new nuclear generation.
We intend With the aim of maximising value, the focusing effort on the life extension to develop a position at the heart of Company will undertake an assessment of these two stations.
substantial new nuclear generation activity in the of operating these four units at higher technical work on proving the lifetime uK that protects the integrity of our capacity including the analysis of the of the graphite cores and boilers, which existing operations and maximises relationship between boiler life, station are the main life-limiting components on shareholder value.
in the short term, life and safety cases.
it is likely that these stations, has continued during we are carrying out preliminary work any increase in capacity would involve the year and it is planned to submit to confirm suitability and enhance the further inspections, additional repair technical and economic evaluations for development value of the sites we own.
work and modifications over the B u s i n E s s r E v i E W British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 11 medium term.
the Company intends to areas impacted by losses reduced approximately 5tWh of capped undertake inspections over the next two indicating that our investment strategy contracts at about 30 MWh.
these financial years to provide further data to may be starting to deliver results.
We prices exclude: i Balancing services support capacity and lifetime boiler are stabilising the fleet and refining risk use of system and other electricity management decisions.
identification and mitigation measures market participation charges expected to invest proactively in potential to be around 1 MWh: and ii market Load was reduced on heysham 1 loss areas.
costs incurred through output variation reactor 2 by 125MW in october 2006 and unreliability which are expected to to reduce a high surface temperature We expect to invest toward the higher be around 1 MWh.
As at 20 May 2007 on the hot Box Dome.
the load end of the range 250m to 300m the weighted average end-point of the reduction has been partially recovered in the financial year 2007 08. the structured contract portfolio was about and the unit is currently operating with level of investment in plant over the 23 months 16 months in April 2006 a reduction of approximately 80MW.
medium term is likely to be affected and the amount zero capped collateral investigations of the hot Box Dome, by the outcome of the Companys sales that will deliver over the period to during the refuelling outage in March boiler management strategy and life April 2012 at fixed prices was 76tWh 2007, revealed no distortion of the extension decisions for hinkley point B 36tWh in June 2006. surface insulation.
Also, controllable to determine solutions to enable the operating costs are expected to During the year the uKs proposed recovery to full load, including the increase by approximately 35m national Allocation plan for phase ii potential to use operating experience 45m in 2007 08, excluding the impact of the Eu Ets which will operate from from the Magnox fleet, which operated of non-recurring severance costs 2008 to 2012 inclusive was approved similar components at higher incurred in financial year 2006 07. by the European Commission.
the surface temperatures there is a reduction in free allowances of the corresponding units at heysham our continuous improvement programme to the power generation sector in phase 1 reactor 1 and the two units will focus on the processes which ii compared to phase i, Eggborough will at hartlepool remain within the support safe and reliable generation receive a slight increase compared with operating limits.
Key areas include phase i 4.75m allowances per year improving the operability of equipment compared with 4.54m.
Work is under way to correct the Fuel through increased efficiency of plug weld issue at Dungeness B. the management of work, optimising concluding remarks station will return to normal refuelling maintenance regimes and continuing i am not pleased with our output in outages during 2007 08. to improve human performance.
2006 07, but i am pleased with the progress we have made through investigation of intermittent problems Trading investment in our people, plant and with heysham 2s fuelling machine We will continue to follow a prudent processes, and am optimistic for continues.
if not remedied, the problem trading strategy while operating within the future.
We have a fine team of could affect refuellings and lead to collateral constraints to protect the dedicated professionals in place at lower output.
Further inspections of business against volatile power prices.
British Energy, ready to build on the fuelling machine components will be in addition we will continue to look for progress made.
there remains more conducted during scheduled fuel route ways to reduce our financial exposure work to be done through continued outages, the next being october 2007. to price volatility by minimising collateral targeted investment, improvement in Certain key spares are being procured requirements and increasing the system health and human performance to reduce the length of any potential average life of the fixed price portion to achieve a result of which we can be downtime of the fuelling machine of our trading book.
We are committed to that end.
in the event that components need to be replaced.
As at 20 May 2007 we had fixed price contracts in place for approximately our 2007 08 investment programme 57tWh for the financial year 2007 08 will continue to focus on identifying and at an average price of about 42 MWh, anticipating the most likely areas of loss excluding approximately 5tWh of and to address these risks by bringing capped contracts at around 30 MWh.
Bill Coley forward repair and refurbishment and Also, as at 20 May 2007, fixed price Chief Executive by improving the availability of strategic contracts were in place for spares.
Although as previously approximately 33tWh for the financial discussed our total losses increased year 2008 09 at an average price of in 2006 07, overall the number of plant around 42 MWh, excluding
