06 Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 CEOs Review leading OEM suppliers worldwide and by our acquisition of the exclusive rights to distribute antibodies developed by some leading international manufacturers over the last financial year.
Major contributions to revenue have come from our US operation, where longer opening hours and a push on sales and marketing activities have helped us to achieve a high rate of growth.
In Europe a similar focus on marketing in the second half of the year has propelled a 58.8% year-on-year increase in the volume of business over the corresponding period last year.
Our virtual European offices are promoting the use of French and German so that many European customers can now We are now becoming a leading player in an contact us directly in their own language.
We have built Despite significant investments for the a scaleable business based around our state-offuture, profit before taxation increased to 5.7m from 4.8m in 2006.
In addition, with our large and remain strong, overall profitability has growing database of users, we can now tailor been affected by the investment in the new Japanese office, the impact of the our marketing activities according to customer weaker US$, increased research and interest.
We have almost 34,000 products in our development costs, early-stage costs for the exclusive distribution deals and the online catalogue, up from 23,200 at the end of full-year effect of the costs of operating June 2006.
The introduction of new products as a listed company.
and the performance of the existing catalogue Work on the HTP facility meanwhile was have driven up sales by more than 26%.
The antibodies we develop ourselves have typically been among our best sellers.
Whilst only 6% of Abcam has enjoyed another impressive able to gather and publish over time.
the products sold under the Abcam brand year with sales increasing by 26.6% to We should also not underestimate the are produced in-house, these represent 24.5m.
This growth came despite the contribution made by our highly skilled 16% of our sales by value and generate weakening dollar, without which sales and committed staff, who make Abcam proportionately higher margins.
We expect would have grown by 33.8%.
Average such a dynamic and motivating that the new facility will allow us to exchange rate applied to US Sales organisation.
in-house products over the next few years We now have almost 34,000 products in and will lead to increased sales as well This success is due to the introduction our online catalogue, up from 23,200 at as improved gross margins.
of new products and the performance of the end of June 2006.
As well as listing the existing catalogue.
Taken across the over 25,000 antibodies, we sell more than Abcam is expert at identifying the areas catalogue, average unit sales continue 8,000 related products, including proteins, of research with the most promise and to increase the longer a product is listed peptides and kits.
The rapid expansion of offering products specifically tailored a trend we attribute in part to the sheer our product portfolio has been fuelled by to meet associated demands.
These quantity of product information we are a growing number of partnerships with products fall within our Core Focus Areas Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Abcam plc 07 CFAs.
Externally we have presented at conferences and run marketing activities around these CFAs, while internally we have vertically integrated our technical service, marketing, business development and sales departments to take full Our products advantage of them.
We have found this to be a highly successful strategy for capturing market share by segment, and plan to develop more CFAs in the future.
33,900 products now in our catalogue We are now becoming a leading player in an important and exciting market.
We have a scaleable business based around our state-of-the-art website.
By offering customers access to detailed and up-to-date technical information on our products, much of which is derived from customers own reviews, we have built a Following the construction of a new Abcam has almost 34,000 strong reputation for trust and reliability.
production facility in Cambridge, UK, In addition, with our large and growing products in its catalogue and we plan to devote substantially more database of users, we can now tailor our the number is still growing.
resources to in-house product marketing activities according to customer development.
The investment we have made 50% of Abcam-branded products to Our team not only adds new in systems to link the website to product be produced at our sites.
This will ordering and accounting has improved products to our catalogue significantly boost our revenue and our efficiency, and gives us the every day but also regularly gross margins.
confidence that we will continue to modifies the datasheets for manage our growth effectively.
Products sold by Abcam but not our existing products.
These manufactured on our premises are Jonathan Milner modifications are based supplied by more than 200 leading CEO on our own testing and OEM partners around the world.
28 September 2007 research in addition to the feedback of our suppliers Product categories and customers.
Our products fall into the following treatment categories: For our customers, cancer all of this means: cardiovascular more antibody targets cell biology chromatin more product types isotype loading controls more choice lysates slides kits neuroscience Around 6% of products sold under the Abcam brand are manufactured in-house, nuclear signalling but these products generate 16% of our secondary antibodies revenue and typically generate stem cells proportionately higher margins.
