Operating & Financial Review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT in providing relevant advice to with their greater probability of Organic Development companies seeking to address final recurrence and broader spread of A number of organic development salary pension scheme deficits, through clients.
Much of this recurring business projects have already been publicised.
Pension Capital Strategies, our specialist is positively secured by medium-term These include the international consultancy established in 2006, gives contracts - for example our outsourcing roll-out of JLT|Online, our full service grounds for confidence that Employee work for UK life assurers in Employee on-line distribution channel to the SME Benefits can continue to flourish as the Benefits, or the services we provide to sector, building on the acquisition of relationship between sponsoring municipal authorities in Australia.
Pavilion Insurance Network plc in 2007. companies and their occupational We have also announced the plan to pension schemes changes.
Continued Bolt-on Acquisitions establish Thistle Underwriters to drive forward the areas where Group We are most ambitious to invest for A Balanced Business businesses operate binding authorities growth and our balance sheet permits and otherwise perform 'underwriters The senior management team and the us to satisfy such ambition.
We have in functions', thus improving the products staff of JLT have worked hard over the planning or in process a 'portfolio' of and services to customers and providing past two years to reposition JLT.
All of smaller investments, which, taken higher quality service and better this work has allowed the underlying together, will generate growth information to insurers.
The ICAP-JLT quality of the JLT Group to shine momentum on a scale that should joint venture launched in 2007 has through.
That quality results in large make a very real difference to the established itself as a broker of part from the balance in the Group's Group as a whole.
These investments Catastrophe swaps and is active in the activities.
On the one hand, the higher include bolt-on acquisitions.
secondary market for Catastrophe profile operations of the Group are our Throughout the Group we are bonds.
Our joint venture company in specialist, bigger-ticket businesses, encouraging the origination of China, JLT Lixin, is now the largest based on our industry-leading expert prospects that build on existing areas of broker in Guangdong, China's most teams.
However, this business tends to business and management strength.
 province, and also be more subject to market rating cycles In 2007 we invested over 20 million on has full service offices in Beijing and and exchange rate movements given a number of transactions and we are Shanghai.
that the majority of its revenue is looking for that momentum to be earned in US dollars whilst its costs are maintained in 2008. predominantly in sterling.
It is balanced, on the other hand, by our mid-market, affinity and employee benefit operations GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 8 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Operating & Financial Review These are a few examples.
Greater Collaboration Commitment to Service The encouraging trend, as we move There are attractive opportunities to These are exciting prospects for JLT.
from the rebuilding phase to an drive forward growth and create value In pursuing them we are clear that our increased emphasis on growth, is the by further encouraging collaboration core commitment of service to our number and quality of organic between our national and regional units clients will not be weakened.
development initiatives that have their around the world.
Clients remain at the centre of all our origins within our operating units, businesses.
We are pleased by the arising from our colleagues' market successes we have achieved in winning Improving Efficiencies knowledge and inventiveness, not new clients in 2007 and welcome them Finally, our sustained investment in driven from the centre.
The medium to to a long and productive association improving IT and systems is now long-term value to be generated from with JLT.
Nor must we focus too much progressing beyond simple 'catch up' these initiatives is anticipated to be on the future and dilute our or cost cutting and has become considerable although the impact on commitment to returning optimum strategic.
the profit and loss account in 2008 is results in today's difficult conditions.
more likely to reduce than to increase Our investments are directed at Nevertheless, I am confident that all our profits due to the initial investments improving both the efficiency and the hard work in 2006 and 2007 has required.
quality of our delivery to clients, now positioned JLT for sustained adding to the flexibility of our profitable growth going forward.
operations, giving us better controls And I should like to thank all my and management information and colleagues for their efforts in getting us enabling us to communicate better as to this position.
an intermediary with both clients and capacity providers.
Dominic Burke Chief Executive 20th March 2008 GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS 1 34 2 67 5 10 8 9 11 12 1 Adrian Girling 5 William Nabarro 9 Vyvienne Wade CEO, Jardine Lloyd Thompson UK Ltd Commercial Director, Executive Chairman Chairman JLT Insurance Management, of Employee Benefits and Chairman of CEO of Latin America operations and 2 Martin Hiller Jardine Lloyd Thompson UK Ltd Group Legal Director CEO Jardine Lloyd Thompson Ltd 6 John Lloyd 10 Dominic Burke 3 Jim Rush Chairman and CEO Lloyd & Partners Ltd Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 7 Andrew Agnew 11 Brian Carpenter 4 Mark Drummond Brady Chairman Jardine Lloyd Thompson Ltd CEO Asia Pacific International Chairman and Deputy Chairman Jardine Lloyd Thompson Ltd 8 George Stuart-Clarke 12 Alan Griffin Projects Chairman and CEO JLT Reinsurance Brokers Ltd Board Director Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 9 Chief Executives Report
