06 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Operating performance The strong momentum from previous years DELIVERING continued in 2007 as we had another successful year due to a combination of organic growth, good performance from acquisitions made in 2006 and increased acquisition spend.
FOR OUR Although some currencies were marginally stronger than in 2006, the translation effect of the weaker US dollar resulted in overall currency CUSTOMERS movements significantly reducing the reported growth rates of revenue and operating profit.
The operations, including the relevant growth rates, are therefore reviewed below at constant exchange rates to remove the distorting translation impact of these currency movements and, unless stated otherwise, in this review references to operating profit are to operating profit before intangible amortisation.
Changes in the level of revenue and profits at constant exchange rates have been calculated by retranslating the results from 2006 at the average exchange rates used for 2007.
Overall revenue was 3,581.9 million 2006: 3,333.2 million and operating profit was 242.9 million 2006: 226.3 million, in each case up 12% at constant exchange rates.
While the reported operating profit margin was steady at 6.8%, the margin, excluding the impact of currency exchange and acquisitions, moved up to 6.9%.
At constant exchange rates revenue in North America rose by 5% and operating profit increased 2%, with the lower level of profit increase largely due to the impact of lower margin acquisitions.
UK & Ireland showed a 28% increase in revenue and a 25% rise in operating profit resulting from good organic growth and the positive impact of recent acquisitions.
In Continental Europe revenue and operating profit increased by 12% and 21% respectively at constant exchange rates due to good organic growth, continued improvement in operating margins and the positive impact of Michael Roney current year acquisitions.
At constant exchange Chief Executive rates the Rest of the World experienced a 10% 25 February 2008 increase in both revenue and operating profit.
6.9 6.8 4.6 6.8 6.8 2.7 07 07 07 06 06 06 ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH % PROFIT MARGIN % PROFIT MARGIN EXCLUDING Increase in revenue for the year excluding the Ratio of operating profit before intangible CURRENCY AND ACQUISITIONS % impact of currency and current year acquisitions amortisation to revenue.
Profit margin excluding the impact of currency but including a pro rata part year in respect and current year acquisitions but including of prior year acquisitions.
Planned revenue a pro rata part year in respect of prior year reductions in prior year acquisitions reduced acquisitions.
the underlying organic revenue growth in 2007 by 0.8% from 3.5%.
Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 07 Adjusted earnings per share, after eliminating is an excellent addition to our successful Prospects the effect of intangible amortisation, were 45.1p business in the Netherlands and also provides The strong performance of the Group has 2006: 41.7p, an increase of 13% at constant a significant business in Belgium.
continued into 2008 due to good organic growth exchange rates, while basic earnings per share bolstered by the positive impact from acquisitions.
were 39.8p 2006: 37.8p, an increase of 10% We announced in August the first of four UK Despite the current uncertainties in the wider at constant exchange rates.
Return on average & Ireland acquisitions with the purchase of economic environment, the combination of firm operating capital remained consistently high at Coffee Point, a London based business engaged product prices, especially in paper, and new 60.9%.
After expenditure on acquisitions and in the sale and operation of vending machines customer wins is supporting our underlying the share buy back, partly offset by strong and associated services for a broad customer growth rates in the coming period.
operating cash flow, net debt increased by base.
This business, with revenue of 45 million 236.9 million to 667.6 million resulting in in the year ended March 2007, substantially In North America we believe that our business a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 2.5 and interest increased the size of our vending business to model, which sells a high proportion of our cover of 9 times.
the point that we are now the largest vending products to food related sectors, is resilient and operator in the UK.
In October we completed should develop well.
In addition the acquisitions Acquisitions the acquisition of Irish Merchants, a business made in previous periods are continuing to Spend on acquisitions rose to 197 million, based in Dublin with revenue of a45 million in improve their profitability.
primarily as a result of a major expansion in the the year ended March 2007, which is involved Benelux, four noteworthy investments in the UK in the distribution of foodservice disposables, We anticipate that the UK & Ireland business and Ireland, an entry into the promising Spanish janitorial supplies and beverage systems to the will continue to experience high growth rates market and two further acquisitions in North horeca, healthcare and retail sectors throughout driven by good organic growth resulting from America.
As a result we not only expanded the Ireland.
The acquisition of this company, which new customer gains and the integration of Group into new countries but also extended our was formerly associated with King Benelux, is acquisitions made in the second half of last product offering and customer base in our a good strategic fit as it significantly increases year.
The synergies arising from the acquisitions existing operations.
the size of our business in Ireland and of Coffee Point and Irish Merchants are already strengthens our position there.
In January we announced two acquisitions December we acquired Care Shop, a Bolton in North America.
Tec Products, a New Jersey based business which is a leading national In Continental Europe the broad based good based redistribution business with revenue of supplier of consumables to the independent organic growth across the business area $14 million in 2006, is principally engaged in care and nursing homes market and which and the operational improvements made the supply of jan san and associated products had revenue of 19 million in the year ended in France should continue to bolster our while Westgate, also a New Jersey based March 2007, and Rafferty, a distributor of guest results moving forward.
The integration of redistribution business with revenue of $18 amenity products to hotels throughout Ireland King Benelux is ongoing and progressing well million in 2006, supplies personal protection with revenue of 9 million in the year ended and Iberlim, our entry into Spain, is trading equipment in the eastern US and Canada.
We entered the exciting, and so far Since the year end we have announced two In the Rest of the World, our larger businesses unconsolidated, Spanish market in February further acquisitions.
Gnter Guest Supplies in Australasia are performing well and we expect with our acquisition of Iberlim, a cleaning and was acquired in January.
Based in Bremen, improved results from our smaller healthcare hygiene business based near Barcelona with Germany, it supplies guest amenity products business.
Our latest acquisition, profit Cap in 2006 revenue of a9 million.
In August we to hotels throughout Europe and had revenue Brazil, will positively impact this years results.
acquired King Benelux, with pro forma revenue of a9 million in 2007.
In February we purchased in 2006 of a125 million, which is principally profit Cap, a leading national supplier of personal The continued strengthening of the Group in engaged in the distribution of products to the protection equipment based in So Paulo, the international markets in which we compete healthcare and contract cleaning sectors in the which represents our first move into the large and the opportunity for further growth through Netherlands and the foodservice, retail and and rapidly growing Brazilian market.
It had acquisitions, give us confidence that the healthcare sectors in Belgium.
This company revenue in 2007 of R$118 million.
prospects are good and that our business will continue to grow successfully.
OUR CLEAR STRATEGY 197 386 HAS RESULTED IN 162 ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR WITH GROWTH 225 BOTH ORGANICALLY AND THROUGH ACQUISITIONS 07 07 06 06 ACQUISITION SPEND m ANNUALISED REVENUE FROM Consideration paid and payable, together with ACQUISITIONS m net debt assumed, in respect of businesses Estimated revenue which would have been acquired during the year including any contributed by acquisitions made during the adjustments relating to acquisitions made year if such acquisitions had been completed in prior years.
at the beginning of the relevant year.
In North America we have created a DELIVERING dynamic new organisation that provides a comprehensive redistribution service.
TO ENSURE OUR R3 Reliable Redistribution Resource is the largest business of its type with the capability CUSTOMERS to cover the whole of North America.
Our objective is to give our customers a MEET THE competitive edge through greater choice and efficiency.
The idea is simple: unified services DEMANDS and support throughout the supply chain from initial order through to final delivery.
OF THEIR CUSTOMERS Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 09 Revenue Return on average at constant operating capital exchange rates 5% 71.9% Nicholas Foods understands the benefits of KEY HIGHLIGHTS The launch of R3 has provided a dedicated our redistribution model and the value added service we provide to control inventory levels, resource focusing on the growing redistribution sector.
cash flow and warehouse space.
All R3 services are scalable and, as a result, orders can range Integration of 2006 and 2007 acquisitions successfully achieved.
from dozens of products to several hundred.
As part of the establishment of R3, a separate Our Retail Resources business has provided organisation to lead our sales and marketing new growth for us in the non-food retail sector.
in redistribution, we have committed resources Their unique operating supply management and personnel both to our foodservice programme, combined with our national redistribution business and to develop further platform and common IT system, has allowed NORTH the jan san business.
This sector allows us to us to gain business in some new retail areas.
increase our penetration into existing customers The key to this success has been our ability AMERICA with new products as well as providing an to help manage store operating supply costs Against a background of more difficult opportunity for potential new customers.
We together with the ability to provide high rates business conditions, at constant exchange continue to invest in new marketing tools, of on time deliveries.
We plan to expand this rates revenue rose 5% to 1,839.0 million inventory, training and programmes that will programme to our grocery customers and any and operating profit by 2% to 123.3 million.
enhance our capabilities and we have taken other end user customers that require this steps to adapt our operating model to the needs supply management service.
Slower economic growth and competitive of these customers who traditionally have pressures, particularly in the grocery and different service requirements.
We continued to invest in the training of our foodservice sectors, impacted our results personnel.
Following the completion of our compared to the strong performance in 2006.
The food processor business has shown good VIP value, integrity and performance training Additionally, some of our recent lower margin growth due to increased customer awareness programme over the last two years, we have acquisitions are taking longer to meet revenue about worker and food safety practices and initiated a new sales automation programme expectations following the restructurings consumer demands for products that require enabling our general managers and sales implemented to build long term profitable more innovative packaging solutions.
The managers to track the results of such training growth.
However, these acquisitions are increased demand for fresh cut produce and the progress of each sales representative.
now positioned well for the future.
provides us with opportunities to sell our Additionally, we have launched an e-learning value-added programmes to both current programme that contains training modules for In January we completed the acquisition of and new customers.
all areas of the business allowing employees Tec Products, which is principally engaged in to train on site and update their skills for the supply of jan san and associated products The convenience store sector continues to enhanced job performance.
This also includes through distributors, and of Westgate, which be attractive as the organic growth in smaller best practice training in areas such as inventory is a supplier of personal protection equipment format stores is outpacing the growth seen in control, purchasing and health and safety.
through distributors in the eastern US and larger outlets.
We operate from highly efficient Our people continue to be one of the greatest Canada.
These, together with the four and large warehouses and are consistently strengths of our business.
acquisitions announced in 2006, have been increasing the breadth of our product offering successfully transferred onto our common to serve our customers better in this sector.
Finally, we have continued to roll out our IT platform and have begun to realise the radio frequency warehouse system, improve efficiencies gained by the conversion and as Our recently acquired safety businesses represent our truck routing and improve the efficiencies a result of integration of the businesses into our a significant growth opportunity as the operating of our facilities.
All of these acquisitions platform has started to drive efficiencies in the were redistribution companies focused on the warehouse, enabling us to service better the foodservice, jan san and safety sectors.
customers and to expand our product offering.
Imported products purchased jointly with our Our grocery business remains our largest sector European safety businesses and plans to and, while pricing pressures persist as the expand our private label programme in this industry continues to consolidate, our national sector will allow us to access a wider range coverage is second to none and we continue to of products and improve margins.
Our sourcing expertise and logistics platform uniquely position us to be able to respond to the different needs of our major customers and provide them with competitive advantage in their markets.
10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Operating profit Return on average operating capital 25% 65.0% Butlerss use of our disposable products has KEY HIGHLIGHTS grown rapidly as they have continued to expand Strong growth achieved across all businesses since opening their first high street caf in 1998. with a number of new customer wins.
Acquisitions of Irish Merchants and Coffee Point consolidate our position in important markets.
2006 and provides us with expertise in the Our healthcare business grew significantly paper bag and luxury packaging sectors.
The due principally to the first full year impact of business has traded in line with expectations Southern Syringe, the healthcare consumables with new business won from leading supermarket business acquired in 2006.
Southern Syringe and luxury brand customers.
has progressed ahead of plan as we reviewed UK & existing contracts and implemented our The cleaning and safety business continued operational procedures, resulting in improved IRELAND to deliver growth.
Greenham successfully operating margins, and we believe that we The benefits of operational initiatives retained a large government sector contract now have a solid base from which to grow undertaken in 2006, good organic growth that demonstrated the ability of Bunzl to provide this business.
The Shermond business won and the impact of the full year effect of 2006 a consolidated delivery of a broad range of new contracts for its nitrile gloves and retained acquisitions and acquisitions in 2007 resulted products.
We also added new customers in the its position on the NHS contract for gloves.
in revenue increasing 28% to 994.3 million construction and utilities markets.
The cleaning In December we announced the acquisition and operating profit up 25% to 74.5 million.
and hygiene business extended contracts with of Care Shop, a leading distributor to the two national contract cleaners and introduced independent care and nursing homes sector, The hotel, restaurant and catering horeca a new own label chemical range which has which provides us with a strong platform to business had a strong year as we benefited from been accredited with the EU Eco-label.
We develop our offering into this part of the the operational restructuring undertaken, and successfully rolled out a new computer system healthcare market.
We renewed into the cleaning and hygiene business and our largest customer contract and broadened created a new website that has generated the range that we supply to a leading restaurant encouraging levels of internet sales.
Our ability to provide national accounts with both catering disposables and catering Our vending business grew significantly in equipment enabled us to win new customers scale with the acquisition in August of Coffee in the hotel, restaurant and pub sectors.
This has made us the market leader regional level we reorganised the salesforce in in the UK hot beverage vending market.
order to be more responsive to local customers.
The integration is ongoing with trading in line During the year we piloted new vehicle routing with our plan and we have already combined and loading software and have started the roll the salesforces and merged a number of the out to all branches which will help us to improve branches where overlaps existed.
We are our fuel and vehicle efficiency.
implementing a new computer system that will result in additional efficiencies.
Our retail supplies business had another successful year.
We renewed our second largest In Ireland, our existing businesses performed customer contract and also won new business well with growth in the horeca, cleaning and with a major supermarket chain.
Following the safety and retail businesses.
The acquisition opening of the Manchester warehouse extension of Irish Merchants in October increases our in the second half of 2006, we reviewed the overall scale in Ireland and strengthens our warehouse layout and procedures and have position in the horeca, healthcare and retail implemented a number of productivity sectors.
Its product range and focus on customer improvements within the operation.
We also service fit well with our existing operations and benefited from the full annual impact of we expect to gain economies of scale and Keenpac, which we acquired in December purchasing benefits in 2008.
In December we acquired Rafferty, a distributor of guest amenity products to hotels throughout Ireland.
Recently acquired Irish Merchants supplies DELIVERING Butlers with a range of products including printed disposable cups, sugar sachets, BESPOKE tumblers, napkins and stirrers.
Butlers, through their Chocolate Cafs, offer high FOODSERVICE quality drinks and chocolates.
By supplying them with a reliable service and quality PRODUCTS products, we assist them in providing a premium service to their customers.
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS IN IRELAND The acquisition of King Benelux has DELIVERING expanded our business in the Netherlands into the healthcare and contract cleaning PRODUCTS sectors and has provided us with a significant new business in Belgium.
This enables THAT ENSURE us to provide a broader product range, wider geographic coverage and an even CLEANER better service to our customers including those in healthcare where we now have AND SAFER greater penetration.
HOSPITALS IN THE BENELUX Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 13 Operating profit Return on average at constant operating capital exchange rates 21% 50.2% We supply medical disposables, sterilisation KEY HIGHLIGHTS packaging and protection wear products to Strong organic growth and operating the healthcare industry across Belgium and efficiencies result in improved profitability.
Acquisitions of King Benelux and Iberlim expand our coverage into Belgium and Spain.
In the Benelux, the newly acquired King Growth has remained strong in central Europe.
Benelux business has performed ahead of In Romania we have relocated to larger expectations and considerable synergies are warehouses in Bucharest to cater for further already being delivered.
We have implemented anticipated strong growth.
The retail business a new ERP system in the Belgian business with across the region improved its margin despite CONTINENTAL the Dutch business to follow later this year.
pricing pressures and benefited from further Warehouse rationalisation in Belgium will also economies of scale and from its new ERP EUROPE lead to further operating efficiencies.
In the system while our cleaning and hygiene business At constant exchange rates revenue increased Netherlands, our existing retail business saw grew revenues strongly following a restructuring by 12% to 616.0 million and operating profit strong revenue growth from both existing and of its salesforce to improve focus and sales rose 21% to 50.0 million as continued strong new customers as well as product range efficiency.
The increased scale of the business organic sales and profit growth was complemented extension.
Good margin management and cost has led to greater cost efficiencies.
by the acquisitions of both King Benelux and efficiencies have resulted in substantial profit Iberlim.
Improved profitability also resulted from growth.
Our horeca business also achieved We acquired Iberlim at the end of February.
better purchasing, higher imports from low cost substantial sales growth from new account wins.
Specialising in cleaning and hygiene products, countries, tight cost control and operating it serves customers in Spain from one site efficiency gains.
In Germany, despite the loss of part of the near Barcelona.
Performance to date has business with a large customer and the absence been ahead of expectations and the business In France, our cleaning and hygiene business of the exceptional revenue from the 2006 FIFA represents a good platform from which to grew revenue in difficult market conditions, World Cup, good sales growth was achieved.
pursue further growth in Iberia.
with most growth again coming from larger Margin pressure and higher transport costs were national accounts.
Better margin management, partially offset by operating efficiencies.
In January 2008 we acquired Gnter Guest substantially higher sales of our own brand Supplies which provides guest amenity products range of products, Techline, and ongoing cost In Denmark, our retail business continued to to hotels throughout Europe.
control helped profits to improve.
The roll out of grow revenue and at the same time improve the new IT system continues and is progressing its profitability as a change in business mix well.
Our French personal protection equipment resulted in lower sales of lower margin products.
business saw a small reduction in revenue A customer lost in 2006 was regained and as particularly strong sales of avian influenza better purchasing also improved the results.
related products did not repeat in 2007.
Costs remained well controlled leading to Nevertheless, the business managed to improve another year of strong profit growth.
Our Danish its margin and lower its costs to produce horeca business generated strong growth.
As the business is reaching full capacity following rapid expansion in recent years, a new warehouse to provide increased capacity will be opened by the end of 2008.
14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Revenue Return on average at constant operating capital exchange rates 10% 49.8% We provide a broad range of disposable products KEY HIGHLIGHTS to Qantas Flight Catering, from paper towels for Strong organic growth across Australasia.
cleaning to food preparation gloves, clingwrap First move into the large and rapidly growing and foil.
These items help them to operate Brazilian market.
efficient inflight meals kitchens at major airports throughout Australia.
Our specialist healthcare business had a difficult year but has taken steps to improve operational performance and is now well positioned to develop in the growing aged care sector.
We are rolling out an electronic ordering system to their REST OF customer base which delivers efficiencies by simplifying the ordering process and enhancing THE WORLD access to information online.
Benefiting from the full year impact of acquisitions made in 2006 combined with To support the growth of the Australasia continued strong organic growth across the business and to enable it to operate in region, at constant exchange rates the a more efficient manner, we continue to invest Australasia business increased both revenue in IT initiatives that will bring benefits to both and operating profit by 10% to 132.6 million our customers and suppliers.
In 2007 we and 10.8 million respectively.
introduced RF scanning technology into our largest business with excellent results.
This Our largest business experienced strong process increases accuracy and in turn enhances organic growth and significant improvement our customer satisfaction by reducing credits, in profitability by providing consolidation supply as well as improving the order picking process.
solutions to their customers across the core We plan to roll the programme out into the sectors of healthcare, industrial, horeca branch network throughout 2008. and retail throughout Australia and New Zealand.
In addition our catering equipment In February 2008 we acquired profit Cap, consumables business based in Queensland a leading national supplier of personal has complemented our offer by providing protection equipment based in So Paulo, a wider range of products to existing customers which represents our first move into the large and creating opportunities to develop in and rapidly growing Brazilian market.
will be reported within the Rest of the World business area.
Our food processor supplies businesses delivered strong growth over the previous year.
The two businesses are evolving into one complementary focused food processor supplies business creating an excellent platform for continued growth.
We have invested in additional key sales development resources to capitalise on new business opportunities and infrastructure to support future growth.
We supported Qantas in the consolidation DELIVERING of foodservice and janitorial supplies and now provide a large range of Bunzl own ESSENTIAL FOOD brands in addition to some specialist food packaging products.
They needed the PREPARATION flexibility and quality of service, cost efficiency and product availability to respond to delayed PRODUCTS or diverted flights.
We are delighted to have the opportunity to bring our national FOR QANTAS distribution and consolidation expertise to such a prestigious business.
