6891 Report 2006-07 1 6 07 17:37 Page 40 CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S LETTER I am pleased to report that 2006 07, our 150th anniversary, was I also want to give special thanks to Christopher Bailey, outstanding for Burberry.
The year saw us proudly celebrating our Burberrys Creative Director, for his amazing contribution.
past, intensely focussed on driving the present, while thoughtfully Christopher leads the creative side of the business with planning for the future.
consummate skill as we continue to build the luxury dimensions of our brand, while refining and innovating our casual base.
It began with completion of my six month transition phase with He received many accolades and awards this year, including then Chief Executive, Rose Marie Bravo.
This period allowed the prestigious US GQ Designer of the Year award.
Christopher me the time to appreciate fully the power of the Burberry brand, is not only a brilliant Creative Director for Burberry, but a great our solid platform upon which to build and the unique cultural partner as we reshape the brand to capitalise further on attributes which we will continue to honour.
I also had the its opportunities.
opportunity to spend time with our key partners, suppliers and customers, as well as to begin working with Burberrys seasoned Looking beyond the scope of Burberrys commercial activities, management team.
I thank Rose Marie for guiding my education we also finalised plans to create the first Burberry Foundation in the complexities and nuances of this special business, and for a charitable foundation that will be the primary vehicle through her confidence in the process.
Her partnership was invaluable which the Group contributes above its usual activities to the on many levels.
John Peace, Burberrys Chairman, similarly communities in which we live and work.
The Foundation is played an integral role during this period.
I expect management designed to be a focal point around which we can further unite and shareholders to continue to benefit greatly from his acumen in support of important causes.
Looking ahead to 2007 08, we recognise that along with Over the course of the summer and early autumn, our senior the many opportunities, the year will offer some challenges.
executives completed a major strategic review of the business.
Burberry is moving into the most extensive phase of Project Atlas During this process, we more precisely defined our opportunities implementation, while continuing to evolve and accelerate growth and refined our strategy, distilling five strategic themes to direct of the business.
We have planned this deployment in meticulous Burberrys future growth.
detail, but the very nature of the project involves a degree of uncertainty.
Key aspects of our supply chain integration will We also began implementing these strategies, with some early also continue to be implemented.
This included initiation of a fundamental transformation of our culture from its historical wholesale origins to a more We face the coming year with confidence given the strength of responsive and dynamic retail orientation.
As part of this, our brand, relevance of our strategies, talent of our teams around Angela Ahrendts we created a new design calendar to enable monthly product the world and a favourable outlook for the luxury sector.
Together Chief Executive Officer flows to our stores, and implemented a basic replenishment we are committed to writing another exciting chapter Chapter programme to excellent results.
Product development focused 151 for this iconic British brand.
on the runway and luxury components of our offering.
We Thank you, accelerated store expansion while initiating new in-store procedures to increase productivity.
We also began a review Angela Ahrendts of the back-end of our business and developed a strategy for Chief Executive Officer our first fully integrated supply chain.
These initial successes were accomplished by a strong group of senior executives working as an integrated team with our valued employees worldwide, and I thank them for warmly welcoming me to this exciting enterprise.
Their passion, dedication and commitment have been most inspiring.
40 41 CHIEF EXECUTIVES LETTER CHIEF EXECUTIVES LETTER
