qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:57 Page 6 Directors Report Group Chief Executives Review Financial Results Our 2007 financial results show Legal & General continuing to perform strongly.
While 2006 profits benefited from significant one-off gains from regulatory changes, 2007 was, by contrast, a year in which we chose to add to reserves.
Setting aside these exceptionals, the business shows a remarkably consistent performance across two very different years for our markets.
Our 1,437m of new business APE and 912m of EEV Operating profit 658m of IFRS Operating profit in 2007 were achieved against the backdrop of increased volatility in investment markets, a decline in housing activity and increasing uncertainty around the Legal & General has a clear regulatory and tax environment in which we operate.
Fixed income markets purpose and a strong sense of experienced a sharp widening in credit spreads and increased volatility.
Our aim now quality of the Groups fixed income portfolio however remains high, and is to implement that strategy, there has been no adverse impact on our corporate bond default experience.
building a company which, This years EEV pre-tax results include a strengthening of annuitant longevity every single day, becomes even assumptions of 269m.
The equivalent effect to the IFRS pre-tax result is better at serving customers and 214m.
These changes, as well as our continuing investment in the business, rewarding shareholders.
stand us in good stead for the future.
Despite delivering improvements in underlying business performance, our General Insurance business was impacted by significant 84m claims arising from storm Kyrill and the summer floods.
Regulatory uncertainty and Tim Breedon change impacted some other markets, Group Chief Executive including traditional Bulk Purchase Annuities, where a restriction was placed on buyouts by schemes eligible for the Governments Financial Assistance Scheme, and investment bonds, where uncertainty over the Chancellors PreBudget Report proposals for changes to Capital Gains Tax impacted confidence.
More positively, towards the end of 2007 we saw the emergence of the new market for open-scheme Bulk Purchase Annuities, 6 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report 23148 p006-027.
qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:57 Page 7 which we had been predicting for some time.
This enabled us to deliver record Our work in 2007: Bulk Purchase Annuity new business volume for the year, with a particularly strong fourth quarter.
extending product range Serving 2007 Achievements adding distribution partners Customers In more difficult markets, communicating more clearly Legal & Generals strategic clarity and operational strength becomes more important than ever.
We have three growing embedded value Rewarding focused and successful businesses: Risk, increasing dividend Shareholders Savings and Investment Management.
returning excess capital These provide diversity of earnings, focusing on growing profitable new business and increasing the value of the business already in force.
Our approach efficient and flexible way and our generate considerable expense savings to business maximises the strength of commitment to returning excess capital over the next few years.
our balance sheet, our powerful brand, to shareholders place us at the forefront and the skills of our people, building During the year, Legal & General of our sector in terms of balance sheet on success in our home market and continued to play an active part in the management.
Our commitment We added to distribution capability, to building a sustainable business is During 2007, Legal & General achieved negotiating a number of new important to us, and this is reflected significant financial and operational in our commitment to Corporate Social partnerships with UK banks and advances within this strategic framework.
We continued to Responsibility CSR, as detailed on Total Risk Premiums reached a record pages 37-38 and in the CSR Report: work closely with Nationwide Building high of 428m, with the annuities www.
Society on the implementation of our businesses enjoying a strong year.
major new partnership, which launched Outlook Individual Annuity sales grew by 18%, on 1 February 2008.
Nationwide has The more turbulent environment of while in the Bulk Purchase Annuity over 13 million members, serviced 2007, we believe, underlines many of the market we won record volumes of new through 900 locations.
In addition, core strengths of Legal & General for its business.
In Savings, we achieved we extended the duration of our contract customers.
Quality of product, diversity significant sales growth for the majority with Cofunds, the leading platform of distribution, good customer service of our products while investing for provider, and broadened the range of and administrative capability, a skilled, future growth and taking steps which will products it provides.
dedicated and adaptable workforce, help in improving our margins in future.
robust capital and a strong reputation Overseas, we concluded a Memorandum Progress in Investment Management are strengths which we believe will of Understanding to establish a joint was outstanding, with 53bn of new continue to serve us well.
venture company with Bank of Baroda funds entrusted to us by clients.
The two During the year we completed the banks collectively have over 40 million major components of our balance sheet customers through approximately 4,000 restructure, and began our 1 billion branches and offices.
This is an excellent share buyback programme.
Our capital bancassurance distribution network in review aimed to ensure that we have a fast growing insurance market, and the right amount of capital, of the right presents us with significant type, held in the right places within opportunities in the medium term.
This complex exercise was Achieving greater operational efficiency achieved in a short timeframe and in total has added 0.5bn to the embedded was an important objective during the value of the Company during 2006 and year.
In 2007, we took significant steps 2007.
Our step-by-step approach to towards outsourcing some non customer ensuring that capital is used in the most facing parts of our IT, a move which will www.
