PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview Introduction Chief Executives 20 Since becoming Chief Executive Officer of the Company in April 2006, I have had the business review pleasure to meet a variety of stakeholders including investors, politicians, government officials, regulators, business partners and journalists.
Whilst the topics covered by those discussions have varied, our approach Mitch Garber to communication has been consistent: Chief Executive we tell it as we see it.
In this Annual Report Officer we have again tried to remain loyal to this approach.
We have of course highlighted our successes, but we also acknowledge that we do not always get everything right.
However, as our results for 2007 have shown, the Group is performing well and I believe is well placed to meet its longterm objectives.
My decision not to extend my contract beyond May 2009 was a difficult one.
Being dynamic, innovative However whilst there is never a good time and flexible are not just to leave a company as CEO, I personally take great pride in the fact that the buzz words plucked from Company is delivering on its business a management text book, strategy and is in great shape to exploit they are pre-requisites for its full potential in the future.
the Board now of my longer term plans, together we can ensure that the hand-over to my successor can be achieved smoothly and without disruption.
Our objectives in context New in 2007 Delivering long-term growth and attractive returns for our shareholders is a statement Key achievements in 2007 of intent that can be found in many annual reports and corporate documents.
As we Strong growth in revenue and Clean EBITDA are also competing for capital, it is perhaps Acquisitions from EOL and IOG not surprising that we too have similar Integration of Gamebookers and PartyBets objectives.
For investors, identifying No download version of Casino and Bingo companies that have consistently Alliances with ITV, the English Football League, achieved these goals can be a strong Sporting Index, Paramount and RTL indicator for those that might be expected Successful implementation of ERP to achieve them in the future.
But life is management tool of course more complex what about companies like ours that are relatively For further details of developments in 2007, young or operate in a highly dynamic go to Review of 2007 on page 32. market?
I believe that an ability to seize opportunities and react quickly to changing circumstances are also important investment criteria.
In our own sub-sector of the internet economy, being dynamic, innovative and flexible are not PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview just buzz words plucked from a their actions in most cases are not 21 management text book, they are preconsistent with their stated gaming policy.
These characteristics make for a highly 2007 marked the Groups second challenging business environment.
It would be However, I believe our business strategy an understatement to say that there have and approach to delivering that strategy been highs and lows during that period.
are already bearing fruit, as evidenced by Our biggest challenge came in 2006 our financial results in 2007. with the effective closure of the Groups Our strategy then largest geographic market and the Despite the need to effectively repackage consequent loss of roughly three quarters and relaunch our business, there has of Group revenues overnight.
But, rather been no change of strategy: we had than triggering the collapse of our already chosen a course that would business, I believe that our response to withstand the greatest of challenges.
the enactment of the UIGEA in The Groups performance post-UIGEA is the US might actually be seen in future a testament to the robust nature of the years as a defining moment in the strategy.
Revenue growth is at the heart of Companys history.
Despite losing the our objectives, but it can only be translated majority of our revenue, our business has into long-term shareholder value if delivered not only survived, it has thrived in 2007. at both acceptable cost and risk.
Our This performance needs to be seen in business model comprises a number of key context.
Online gaming is a truly global revenue drivers but which essentially can and dynamic market, one with a large be distilled down into three elements: number of operators.
The barriers to entry i the number of active players we have: are low but we believe the barriers to ii how often they play: and iii the success are high.
It is also a market that amount of revenue they generate each many governments are looking to restrict in time they play.
Whilst the inter-relationship order to protect indigenous monopolies.
between our revenue and our Key Although they claim that the primary Performance Indicators KPIs is complex, objective is to protect the general public, the key dynamics can be illustrated by the diagram below.
Our revenue model Revenue is driven by the number of players playing and how much they spend.
This chart attempts to highlights the key drivers of Revenue our revenue model.
of active Multiply yield per active players player Player New player Existing Mix of Frequency Player attrition sign-ups active games of play mix players PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview Mergers and acquisitions have also proven Chief Executives 22 to be a helpful source of new customers although such deals must first meet our business review strict financial and strategic criteria.
Localise the customer offer At the beginning of 2006, all of the Groups online games were conducted in one language The Groups strategy is focused on growing English and one currency US dollars.
revenue and Clean EBITDA whilst ensuring Today our Party-branded, integrated that such growth is achieved within systems platform offers websites in up to acceptable parameters of risk and a 12 languages and also the opportunity to framework of legal and regulatory play games in US dollars, pounds sterling compliance.
The four individual business and euros.
Reducing barriers for international strategies that we have identified to customers helps to improve the appeal of achieve the long-term objectives are our games, as does the development of as follows: localised promotions such as on national sporting events.
Grow the player base Broaden the product base The Group Localise the customer offer already offers a full suite of the most Grow the product base popular games online, including poker, casino, bingo and sports betting.
Act responsibly However, continuing to add new games Grow the player base PartyGaming has is important for retaining players and continued to deliver strong growth in its maintaining the appeal of the customer active player base by growing new player offer.
While we continue to develop games sign-ups and improved trends in player in-house, the strength of the Groups retention.
Whilst the popularity of online operating platform, payments technology gaming is relatively low when compared and international marketing reach now with the total for all types of gaming, means that the Group can license games it is one of the fastest areas of growth.
and associated products from third-parties at commercially attractive rates.
Not all markets have the same growth potential.
Differing regulatory approaches Act responsibly Being responsible is an mean that we have chosen not to accept essential element of doing business and new customers from a large number of maintaining our corporate reputation.
In this context, the Groups Being the worlds leading listed online continued growth in the number of active gaming company requires more than just players is even more impressive.
It has good systems and a snappy marketing been achieved through the continued campaign.
You need to instil trust and exploitation of traditional marketing confidence, not just in your players, but channels such as online and offline also in business partners and regulators marketing, as well as affiliates.
Ensuring that our we added a further channel through a players can have fun in a safe and secure series of business alliances with leading environment is priority number one for us.
Using their brands, products or media we hope to be able to expand our reach even further.
For further details on the latest estimates of market growth, see Our Markets on page 54.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview That means constantly looking at how we Delivering the strategy 23 can improve standards of responsibility.
Our business is still relatively young Whilst the vast majority of our customers and we have maintained much of the enjoy playing games with us, a small entrepreneurial spirit and flair that has minority can find themselves in a position been such a prime factor behind the where gaming may be assuming too large successes achieved to date.
However, as a part of their lives.
The recent prevalence a listed public company this needs to be study in the UK estimated that the harnessed within the parameters of strong proportion of the UK population that corporate governance and business ethics.
may have problems with their gambling As described later in this document 1 was 0.6%.
A separate study by Harvard under Our Values employees, we have Medical School identified a similar developed a management framework proportion of around 1% of a large sample that balances the need for compliance of online betting customers that displayed and control with the hunger to innovate what may represent excessive gambling and secure competitive advantage.
While problem gambling Our business approach has always been appears, on the basis of the recent founded upon individual responsibility.
evidence, to be a small problem in relative Through a new organisation chart and terms, the Group takes its responsibility in revitalised management communications, this area very seriously and continues to we now have a much improved structure, enhance its tools and processes to help one that fosters idea generation and players recognise the signs of problem innovation and which also identifies issues gaming and provide them with information affecting the business at an early stage.
about where they can obtain help.
Striking the right balance of these sometimes conflicting objectives is vital Just as important is ensuring that children for long-term success.
Our real money games are for adults only and we have put in Managing this relationship, the Groups place a rigorous procedure to verify the Executive Committee meets weekly and identity and age of customers before a wider group of senior managers across they play.
We also encourage parents and the business meets monthly to develop guardians to keep their own log-in and new ideas as well as identify and address payment details confidential to prevent current business issues.
Another team of possible misuse by children.
While such senior managers is tasked with considering occurrences are extremely rare, we are the issues that are likely to affect the determined to keep it that way.
business over the longer term and Our strategy These icons represent the four key elements of our strategy, grow the player base, localise the customer offer, grow the product base and act responsibly.
1 The British Gambling Prevalence Survey 2007 Wardle, Sprotson, Orford, Erens, Griffiths, Constantine and Piggot.
2 Assessing the Playing Field A prospective longitudinal study of internet sports gambling behaviour LaBrie, LaPlante, Nelson, Schumann and Shaffer Harvard Medical School, Boston.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview While the rate of growth in new player signChief Executives 24 ups in any individual territory can be expected to decline over time, the impact business review on overall growth will be mitigated by the opening up of new territories through increased penetration of broadband and the recognition by governments of a need for a proper regulatory framework for twice-a-year the top 50 managers in the online gaming.
The addition of multibusiness attend a strategy day in Gibraltar currency and multi-lingual versions of our to share ideas and provide input to help games in order to localise the customer shape the Groups future strategy and offer has also helped to broaden the plans.
This structure is not only delivering international appeal of our games.
strong financial results but also identifying growth opportunities.
How new player sign-ups translate into numbers of active players is influenced by Measuring our success our ability to retain players and maintain PartyGaming was effectively relaunched their interest in playing games online.
on 13 October 2006 and so, in its new form, We already know that more than three could be deemed to be just over a year quarters of new player sign-ups can, on old at the end of 2007.
It is in that context average, be expected to stop playing that I believe that the performance of the after 12 months.
While absolute rates of business in operational terms over that short retention may vary slightly by territory, period has been outstanding.
The Group the pattern over time is broadly the same, has grown its continuing revenue at an irrespective of the geographic location impressive rate by driving the key elements of the player.
of our business model, namely number of players and yield per active player day.
Marketing initiatives through reactivation campaigns as well as the introduction of Number of players new distribution channels and broadening The growth in two of our KPIs, namely new the product base through the addition of player sign-ups and active players, has new products and features, help to keep continued to be impressive.
This is despite players interested and mitigate the impact the relatively conservative stance taken by of player attrition on activity levels and the Group not to take bets from a number therefore on revenue.
The sheer volume of of territories, some of which are large online players involved means that even small gaming markets where competitors are increases in player retention can result in active, but which we believe remain significant financial benefits for the Group.
unattractive given concerns over regulatory However, the addition of more recreational or operational risk.
Growing the player or casual players means that we expect base through the continued exploitation the trends in player retention will continue of existing and new marketing channels, to decline gradually over time.
technologies and payment mechanisms has ensured that the Group has stayed ahead of the competition in terms of new player sign-ups.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview Player yield Managing regulatory compliance 25 How much revenue players generate The online gaming industry is one that is every time they play is an important seen as being controversial in many variable in the revenue equation and is territories and in most countries the reality is driven by several different factors including that a legislative and regulatory framework frequency of play, the variety of games is simply not in place to address this rapidly played and the overall experience of growing industry.
As a result, in addition to players.
The continued growth in the managing the conventional business risks number of casual players, who tend to play faced by companies, the Group spends a and spend less than more experienced great deal of time and effort monitoring the players, means that as the player base regulatory and legal position in countries expands, the average yield per active where it has customers, as well as countries player day can be expected to decline.
where it believes there is potential to Countering this influence, however, is the generate revenue in the future.
Shifts in the fact that experienced players have tended regulatory or political stance in individual to increase their spend over time, territories and our response to that shift particularly in poker as they improve their can have a material impact, either playing skills, which acts as a positive positively or negatively, on the Groups influence on yield.
Another positive impact comes from Drawing upon the Groups network of increased cross-selling of our games.
legal and political advisers, the Group has By getting players to play more than one established a Regulatory Committee that game, we can increase our share of their meets formally on a regular basis to review leisure spend and increase average yield.
developments in key markets around the This is another reason for broadening the world and review the Groups stance product base not only does this keep towards them in the light of regulatory as existing players interested, it can result well as political developments.
As well as in players spending more with us rather the CEO and Group Finance Director, the than on other leisure activities.
Changes Committee also includes other key members in each of these metrics, together with of the management team.
This ensures the changing inter-relationship between clear and prompt communication of any them over time means that the revenue changes to the Groups approach in any equation is complex.
territory and that the implications of any such change are understood.
During 2007, we delivered impressive growth in revenue and Clean EBITDA.
This performance was delivered whilst Consolidated yield per active player day $ ensuring that our business model was 2005 2006 2007 sustained and that short-term financial 25 performance was not achieved at the 20 expense of acting responsibly.
We continue to invest large amounts of time, 15 effort and capital in developing our systems and processes for player security, 10 age verification and responsible gaming.
5 Our firm belief is that by increasing the trust and confidence of our players, as 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 well as governments and regulators, our investment in this area will deliver real long-term value for the Group.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview Current trading and outlook Chief Executives 26 The Group announced its fourth quarter key performance indicators and trading business review update on 30 January 2008.
Taking into account the reclassification of certain revenues, as highlighted in Review of 2007, the trading data for the four weeks ended 28 January 2008 was as follows: Managing our people average gross daily revenue was The transformation of our business over the $1,708,100.
In poker, new player sign-ups past 18 months has been phenomenal.
averaged 1,341 per day and there were Our employees response has been no on average 66,760 active players per day, less remarkable.
Having shed over 40% generating average gross daily revenue of the workforce, we reorganised and of $1,037,300.
In casino, average gross put in place a new structure to better daily revenue was $598,600 while in sports reflect the new mix of our business, both in betting, gross win per day averaged terms of product as well as geography.
Our management style has always been In the following five weeks, ended one where individuals are charged with 3 March 2008, average gross daily revenue a high level of responsibility and where increased to $1,776,200, a 4% increase everyone is expected to work hard and over January.
While growth in net revenue deliver results.
The dynamics of the online has been lower than expected, Clean gaming market require that individuals EBITDA, our primary measure of financial are expected and encouraged to use performance, is in line with expectations their initiative but within an appropriate and the Group remains confident about framework of management controls and the full year outlook.
In poker, new player procedures.
Such an environment does not sign-ups averaged 1,428 per day and there suit everyone, but we aim to ensure that for were on average 67,582 active players those that are up to the challenge, the per day, generating average gross daily rewards are worth the effort.
Having peaked at employees have a stake in the Company, 19% in the fourth quarter of 2007, fair value either through nil-cost or fair market value adjustments to revenue including bonuses options and so their financial rewards are and PartyPoints as a percentage of gross highly geared to performance.
poker revenue are expected to return But working at PartyGaming is not just to between 12% and 13% of gross poker about financial rewards.
We continue to revenue during the second quarter of 2008. attract and retain some of the best people In casino, average gross daily revenue - not just because we pay well but had increased to $653,200 per day while because we also offer a dynamic, in sports betting, gross win per day had challenging and exciting place to work increased by 36% to $98,100 per day.
where there are opportunities to make a Income from territories within the EMEA real and valuable contribution and where region continues to grow rapidly.
The latest that contribution will be recognised.
As a actions by the European Commission result, our management pool comes from a should help to promote the creation of a variety of different industries that combine level playing field in key European markets to create an eclectic and powerful mix of thereby providing further opportunities for management expertise.
I believe that such the Group.
Having established a presence breadth and depth will prove to be a on the ground in Asia, we are continuing to defining factor as the Group seeks to explore several initiatives in the region and extend its lead over the competition.
believe that these will ensure we are well placed to take full advantage of changes in the regulatory environment, as and when they occur.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview While the legislative and market dynamics Conclusion 27 in many countries around the world mean In this Annual Report we have aimed to that it continues to be difficult to predict highlight the Groups ability to meet the macro-economic environment over the its long-term objectives and deliver medium-term, it is clear that online gaming revenue growth and attractive returns for remains an increasingly popular leisure shareholders.
I believe that we are now pursuit among adults around the world and better placed to achieve these objectives that this trend is expected to continue.
than at any time in the Companys history.
Our business is probably more complex Key objectives for 2008 than ever before and our marketplace is I believe that our performance in 2007 as dynamic as ever.
However, we are now and the first few weeks of 2008 represent more broadly-based in terms of product strong evidence that we have the right and geography than ever before and strategy in place and that it is being have in place an organisational structure executed effectively.
That said, we are that can meet these challenges over not complacent.
While comfortable that the short, medium and longer term.
each of the four elements of our business strategy are the right ones to achieve our Our success will continue to be driven by long-term objectives, we continue to exploiting the entrepreneurial flair and believe that we can improve our execution talent of our people, whilst at the same time of the operational steps to implement the managing the ever changing requirements strategy as well as the impact it can have for regulatory compliance.
We have the on our financial performance.
expertise, we have the brands and we have the desire to achieve our goals.
The Board and I remain excited about the Groups prospects for 2008 and beyond.
Our key objectives for 2008 Continue to grow revenue and Clean EBITDA Reach a satisfactory conclusion to our discussions with the DoJ Encourage regulation rather than prohibition of online gaming throughout the world Broaden the number of marketing channels open to the Group Increase the number of new player sign-ups via casino, bingo and sports betting as well as poker Add new and exciting games and products to our customer offer Continue to drive cross-selling across the Party-branded platform Improve the conversion rate of visitors to our sites into customers Invest in new and existing player retention initiatives PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview 28 New alliances are adding extra impetus to our performance.
Blue chip companies trust us to generate additional revenue using their brands, products or media.
These alliances bring additional players to our customer base and new revenueearning opportunities to our business.
White labels We enable companies to brand their own online gaming operation.
We supply the games, payments and customer Super affiliates service: they supply the brands and offer them through their own online sites.
To find out more go to page 30.
This option allows third-party websites to offer their users the opportunity to click through to our suite of games and access any Party brand.
To find out more go to page 76.
Brand licensing This is about using well-known brands owned by the likes of Hollywood studios and media companies for games developed by us and offered through our gaming channels.
To find out more go to page 62.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview 29 New alliances.
Product licensing We dont have a monopoly on good ideas, so we have created a structure using someone elses games but with our brands and on our gaming platform.
To find out more go to page 82.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview 30 Mixing our great games... PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview 31 White labels Alliance ITV Method Our games, their brands, their media Brands ITV casino, ITV bets, ITV poker, ITV bingo Friends Reunited Poker, Emmerdale Bingo PartyGaming was the natural choice for us when we decided to leverage our already strong brands in the online gaming sector.
Jeff Henry, Managing Director ITV Consumer... with great brands
