International Chief Executives review We operate in 33 countries around the world, serving residential and business customers.
We have started to see the rewards of putting the customer at the centre of everything we do.
Our focus on We saw strong growth in Panama, where relatively low mobile and broadband has paid dividends with mobile and broadband penetration and plans to expand customer numbers over five million for mobile the Panama canal should continue to drive future growth.
The turnaround Likewise, in Macau, the strength of the gaming industry of the Jamaican business is evident and we are is driving demand for our services.
regaining mobile market share there.
Our EBITDA Im particularly pleased that in Jamaica the turnaround has increased by 8% at constant currency to is showing tangible results.
Mobile customers are up 47% 430 million, with an EBITDA margin of 35%.
on last year with rising market share.
And we have almost doubled our broadband customers since March 2006.
We are starting to see the rewards of putting the customer This is all evidenced in a 13% rise in Jamaica EBITDA at the centre of everything we do.
Our revenue has increased at constant currency.
by 7% at constant currency, with mobile revenue up 19% and broadband revenue up 45%.
An increased focus on This year as next, we continue to invest in our mobile and working together across International has allowed us to broadband expansion plans to improve network quality and improve the customer experience while reducing our other coverage and to take advantage of low market penetrations.
operating costs to 31% of revenue.
As a result, EBITDA before Next year, we are aiming to enable 90% of our network to exceptionals has increased 8% to 430 million and we have deliver at least 8Mbps broadband.
achieved an EBITDA margin of 35%.
Despite our good progress, Im far from satisfied and there is always room for improvement.
In particular, we have to do better in our joint venture in Trinidad and Tobago, where we dont have management control.
Here results have fallen a long way short of our expectations.
Im pleased with our improved focus on cash repatriation to Central.
We repatriated 530 million of cash of which 256 million was from the net sale proceeds of our associate investment in Bahrain.
Cable & Wireless International is well positioned as the leading full-service provider for small to medium markets.
And we have what it takes to drive our business forward.
Id like to thank everyone in the International team.
Without our people, none of the achievements of the past 12 months would have been possible.
Harris Jones Chief Executive of International and Joint Group Managing Director 08
