Highlights & Overview Business&Financialreview Directors report Financial statements Otherinformation Chief Executives review 2007 was another significant year in the evolution of Cadbury Schweppes.
It was the year which marked the end of an ambitious four-year strategy which transformed our company.
It also was a year during which we embarked on the separation of the Group into two broadly equal-sized businesses, namely Confectionery and Americas Beverages.
Todd Stitzer Chief Executive Officer Our performance 20042007 The Chairman has put the evolution of our In October 2003 we set out a four year plan to transform business into its full historical perspective.
Here, our business strategically, commercially, operationally, Ill first describe the platform weve created and financially and culturally.
the performance weve delivered in the last four Implementation of strategy years, culminating in our achievements in 2007.
On the strategic front, we acquired and integrated Adams Then, Ill focus on how, in the next phase of our ahead of plan.
The acquisition of Adams helped to create the journey, we plan to exploit our platform to make worlds largest confectionery company with number one or Cadbury plc the worlds best, as well as biggest, number two confectionery market positions in 20 of the worlds 50 largest confectionery markets by retail sales value.
Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 5 Chief Executives review continued Chart 1: 2006 Confectionery Revenue by Total Market Chart 3: 20032006 Confectionery Revenue Leadership Position from Innovation 15% Market leader 66% #2 position 8% Other 26% 12% 9% 6% 3% Source: Euromonitor 2006 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 We followed it up with bolt-on acquisitions of Green & Blacks, the worlds largest organic chocolate company: Intergum, Turkeys largest gum business: Dan Products, the Operating progress number one gum company in South Africa: Kandia-Excelent, Operating performance over the duration of the strategy has Romanias second largest confectioner: and Sansei, one of consistently improved through restructuring, systems Japans leading functional candy companies.
On the beverages side, we integrated our US and European Between 2004 and 2007 we closed or sold 25% of our beverage businesses.
We subsequently sold European factories and distribution centres and reduced our workforce Beverages for a very good price and invested part of the by 10%.
In June 2007 when we launched our Vision into proceeds to strengthen our route to market in the US by Action strategy we announced plans to close another 15% of buying independent bottlers.
our factories and distribution centres and also reduce our workforce as a result by the end of 2011.
In early 2007 we announced the separation of our Confectionery and Americas Beverages businesses to create Weve implemented a consistent SAP-based IT system, first greater focus and ultimately greater shareowner value.
in Australia then the USA, and finally in the UK, effectively aligning our IT platforms in these markets.
Commercial perspective Four years of revenue growth at double the rate of our The execution challenge surrounding these changes has historic growth is a strong testament to the scale of our been complex and logistically demanding, particularly in the commercial performance.
This has driven four years of context of simultaneously restructuring and revitalising our consistent market share growth against our toughest commercial organisation.
competitors in their home markets.
Financial improvement Chart 2: Cadbury Confectionery Revenue Growth From a financial perspective, over the four year period from 2003 to 2007, our total shareholder returns grew by nearly 10% 90%, placing us among the top quartile of our peers.
Chart 4: Cadbury Schweppes TSR against Peer Group 8% 6.2% 20032007 CS growth 6% CAGR 350 5.1% 4% market 300 growth CAGR 250 2% 200 0 150 199903 2004 2005 2006 2007 100 Revenue is defined as base business revenue 50 0 The improvement in our commercial performance was driven 50 by significantly increased investment in marketing, innovation Cadbury Schweppes plc and commercial capabilities, resulting in the doubling of our innovation rate.
6 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 TSR Growth % Highlights & Overview Business&Financialreview Directors report Financial statements Otherinformation The Group is also stronger financially with capital more tightly Chart 5: Cadbury Schweppes U. S. CSD Market Share 2003-2007 managed and debt significantly reduced.
Working capital has declined three years running and, including 2007, the total 80 improvement in average working capital days has reached 14.
The combination of cash flow and proceeds from disposals 60 has reduced the debt taken on to acquire Adams, leaving 40 the Group with an efficient balance sheet.
20 Cultural progress Over the last four years, we have transformed the quality and 0 capabilities of our people.
We have supplemented our own -20 talent with significant external experience and today, of the top leaders in the organisation, over 25% are new to the company.
-40 To create a high performance culture, we have aligned rewards more closely with the value drivers for the business and raised -60 the capability bar across the whole business.
Through all this 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 challenge and change our culture has remained resilient and robust, seeking always to act with care and responsibility for our colleagues and the communities in which we do business.
Since we announced our new strategy in June, we have been Decision to demerge Americas Beverages embedding a new category organisation in our Confectionery The successful delivery of our 2004 2007 plans gave us the business and focusing our efforts on fewer, faster, bigger, confidence that Confectionery and Americas Beverages would better initiatives, which helped achieve revenue growth at deliver more value to our shareowners as independent focused 7% in our 12 focus markets, 10% in our 13 focus brands and businesses.
The businesses are now running independently, and 12% in our focus customers.
we continue to work towards a demerger in the second quarter of 2008 subject to legal and shareowner approvals One of our focus brands, Trident, had a stellar performance, and debt refinancing.
with revenues ahead on last year by over a quarter.
It is now our biggest brand and the largest gum brand in the world.
2007 performance The brand was launched in two white space markets in 2007, Group performance in 2007 is testament to the strong Turkey and Britain, with excellent results.
platform we have been building since 2003 and the resilience of our people and business model.
Overall, our revenues and In line with our efficiency drive, we have been right-sizing underlying profits were up 11% and 4%, respectively, in constant central overheads in preparation for separation and currency.
Underlying EPS improved by a modest 2% due to reorganising regional structures, mainly by clustering business improvement costs and M&A activity.
Commercial clustering is already driving great results in Latin America.
We have also Americas Beverages produced credible results in challenging been successfully reconfiguring our chocolate manufacturing markets.
Base business revenues were ahead by 4% as the in Britain and our candy supply chain in Asia Pacific.
business reaped the twin benefits of focus on core brands and route to market consolidation.
Our core flavour brands Outlook continued to benefit from the trend away from colas, and the As we look ahead to 2008, although economic conditions revitalisation of Snapple has demonstrated real traction.
The remain uncertain, we take confidence from the fact that we 40 bps gain in carbonated soft drinks CSD in the US market have created strong foundations for the businesses and that the fourth consecutive year of market share gains.
they operate in economically resilient categories.
While underlying operating margins were negatively affected In 2008, Americas Beverages will continue to benefit from the by the consolidation of lower margin bottling acquisitions and focus on core advantaged brands and superior route to market Accelerade launch losses, they remain high at around 20% with capability, with revenues expected to grow between 35%.
We margins of the base business slightly ahead excluding the aim to largely cover the expected margin headwinds through impact of Accelerade.
However, taking into account the consolidation of lower margin bottling acquisitions, The base business confectionery revenues grew at a record 7% reported margins are likely to be modestly lower year on year, with strong contributions from most of our businesses, with the profits weighted toward the second half.
including in Britain where the results improved strongly.
Underlying operating margins were ahead by 30 bps before In Confectionery, our strong momentum should help us to business improvements and foreign exchange despite achieve revenue growth in the upper half of our 4%6% goal continuing commodity cost challenges and increased range.
Good operating leverage, particularly in gum, the investment in growth.
initiatives in place to deliver savings, early progress on a turnaround in our underperforming markets China, Nigeria In Confectionery, excellent early progress was made against and Russia, and a robust approach to pricing should enable each key element of our Vision into Action plan for a more in us to deliver meaningful confectionery margin progression depth review of Vision into Action see pages 8 and 9.
It is in 2008. worth highlighting these achievements here to give you some insight into our Confectionery plans for the next four years.
Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 7 YOY Share Change bps
