Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 14 Review of our strategy Chief Executives review Our vision Our vision is to be a premier international savings and wealth management business.
This vision is built on a solid foundation of asset management and asset gathering expertise for which we have a heritage of over 150 years in both South Africa and Sweden.
Our primary objective as a Group is to look after peoples money well.
Our value proposition is built on offering our customers and their advisers access to top-quartile investment returns and excellent service through business models that offer choice and value for money.
Our strategy Jim Sutcliffe Chief Executive Our strategy is based on growing value through diversified product offerings and operations.
Our decentralised operating model allows a quick, relevant and effective response to changing customer needs, as well as industry regulation, at a local level.
Centralised capital management and disciplined risk control bind together a powerful set of engines designed to deliver consistent growth for customers and shareholders.
The nature of the savings industry and the Companys philosophy is a long-term one.
The transformation of the Company from a dominant South African life assurer to an internationally competitive, customer-focused financial services organisation has been a purposeful and thought-through journey that is by no means finished.
As we continue along this path, the growing diversity of our business allows us to draw widely on our own experience and transfer solutions from one part of the Group to another, quickly and efficiently.
Following our acquisition of Skandia in 2006, our portfolio of businesses is now well placed to take advantage of four global trends that are shaping financial services markets internationally.
Transparency, choice and flexibility The first of these is the move to greater choice, transparency and lower costs for customers.
More than ever, customers are faced with a wide array of alternative investment products.
The power of consumer choice for financial services puts pressure on us to respond appropriately with solutions most relevant to our customers needs.
The purchase of Skandia has given us access to its pioneering and leading open-architecture platform, specifically in the UK, Europe and Latin America, which strategically and technologically provides us with a competitive advantage.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 15 Our strategy is based on disciplined organic and acquisitive growth, building value through diversity.
Changing demographics The combined effect of positive net client cash flow and good investment performance is a rise in the level of assets under These consumer needs are being driven predominantly by management.
Our business profits are produced as a result of the a second trend, which is the increasing longevity of many level of assets under management multiplied by margins on those populations and the growing proportion of older people within assets less our expenses.
those populations the so-called baby-boomers.
Strategies for savings and wealth accumulation are changing globally as Our declared strategy when we listed on the London Stock customers prepare for different lifestyles resulting from longer Exchange in 1999 was to diversify our business geographically retirements.
Old Mutual aspires to meet these changing needs to avoid over-reliance on any one region.
Life sales in Europe now and continues to offer new and innovative products to address account for 61% of our volumes, while 76% of our funds under these requirements.
management are today located in the United States and the UK.
Although earnings are still predominantly generated in South Shifting investment philosophy Africa, profit streams from the United States and the UK are The third trend is the move away from traditional life products beginning to reflect our strategy.
Our affiliate model in the United States and our boutique asset management structure in We are not pursuing geographic diversity at any cost and we South Africa which has adopted the US approach position us work constantly to identify those markets that are growing and well to respond this trend.
Increasingly, Old Mutual sees itself profitable, and where demographics and the propensity to save as an asset manager looking after and growing clients money, are clearly evident.
whether in the form of life-wrapped or straight investment products.
Our experience across all product lines enables Our Group strategy is expressed through five main themes that us to respond quickly and imaginatively and to manage serve to rally our diverse businesses towards our vision of building margins effectively.
a premier international savings and wealth management business: Outsourcing 1.
Growth in assets Pressure on margins has reinforced the fourth trend, which Our growth aspiration is underpinned by a belief that size is towards outsourcing.
The Company has a strategy of being is not a prerequisite for success, but rather an outcome that is the best or buying the best.
If we are not able to deliver a core ultimately aimed at benefitting our customers.
By growing our service or product at a competitive price, we will either build that assets we aim to be able to provide our customers with the best capability internally if that makes economic sense or outsource investment returns, as growth provides a larger base for spreading the service or product concerned in order to benefit from scale corporate costs.
Our shareholders should also benefit, since greater and competence provided by best-of-breed third party suppliers.
funds under management allow us to borrow capital more cheaply.
Superior investment performance is crucial for achieving strong Investment performance net client cash flows, which in turn build our funds under These trends, while challenging, provide us with opportunities.
management, the cornerstone of our performance metrics.
Asset gathering and management increasingly depend on solutions that best serve the needs of customers.
The essential ingredient This sequence becomes the driver of our profit model: profit that underpins our asset management business, is the delivery is generated through revenue assets times our margins less of market-beating investment performance.
This simple yet effective model is starting to be time and capital to creating environments that encourage and recognised by analysts as an effective way of understanding reward performance excellence.
The result is positive net client the Group.
It also keeps our management focused on what cash flow in our view the key measure of growth within we believe our key drivers to be.
Strategy Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 16 From left to right Group Executive Jim Sutcliffe In addition to the Chief Executive and Chief Executive the Group Finance Director, there are Jonathan Nicholls four other members of the Group Group Finance Director Executive, who are shown on the right.
Rosie Harris The Group Executive meets regularly Group Risk Director to address strategic issues, to review Bob Head the Groups progress against its business Group Director, Southern Africa plan for the year and to discuss other Scott Powers high-level matters affecting the Groups Chief Executive, Old Mutual US performance or prospects.
Julian Roberts Chief Executive, Skandia Chief Executives review continued Over the past four years we have achieved strong international Adjusted operating profit growth.
We are confident that we can continue along this path over IFRS basis 2007 1,624m the long term by a combination of organic growth and acquisitions Continuing Southern African business 65% in current and new geographies.
We have a solid base and strong Europe and Latin America 15% brands in South Africa and the Nordic region on which to build.
USA 15% Mutual & Federal 5% In the United Kingdom, Europe and the United States we are building robust and high-growth businesses by applying our strong investment management capabilities.
We are also investing in emerging markets that we believe will Including corporate costs become substantial contributors to future growth and in particular are looking to grow our presence in Asia.
Value of new business 2007 266m 2. Business performance Europe and Latin America 50% Our shareholders require a fair return for their investment, so we USA 27% balance growth in assets with a focus on our capital allocation South Africa 23% and profitability.
Enhancing our business performance also entails improved risk management and a drive to raise individual businesses performance.
Knowledge-sharing As indicated above, the world in which we operate is characterised by rapid change, both in economic terms and in terms of our customers needs.
We are responding to this by sharing knowledge, technologies and best practice across the Group.
This allows our local businesses to adapt quickly to our clients emerging needs and changes in the local and global environment.
Our Group is well positioned in terms of capabilities in both boutique and proprietary asset management and asset gathering models.
It also has expertise in a diverse range of distribution approaches, many of which are reusable in different markets in which we do business.
Reputation Our reputation is built upon our desire to be respected members of the communities in which we live and work.
We express this desire through our corporate values, through the way we interact with our customers, investors, regulators, suppliers and each other.
This is further supported through our active investment in the upliftment of our communities and care and preservation of our natural environments.
These activities take place at a local level where we operate and in many cases actively involve our staff in their personal capacities.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 17 Mindful of our role and responsibilities in the communities in While mutual fund sales were adversely affected by unfavourable which we do business, we have sharpened our focus on Corporate market conditions in the second half, life sales overall were good.
Responsibility and see this as a key area for further progress during 2008.
For example, we launched the Masisizane helping each Notwithstanding planned infrastructural investment, tight control other Trust under the stewardship of Old Mutual South Africa on costs continued, leading to an increase in IFRS adjusted during 2007.
The Trust was funded with some of the proceeds operating profit of 11%.
Earnings per share grew by 12% and of the sale of shares unclaimed after the demutualisation in 1999 we produced a solid return on equity of 13.2%.
and is aimed at supporting small and women-led businesses.
Our end-2008 target of 300 billion in funds under management There is increasing interest in the Groups approach to the remains firmly on track, with Group funds under management environment, human rights and social responsibility and it is clear increasing by 18% to 279 billion during 2007 despite the that these factors are starting to play a growing role in our clients problems that beset the markets toward the end of the year.
We are putting in place practices and processes to ensure that our product solutions and management Regional review activities with respect to these critical environmental issues are Our European businesses showed impressive growth, and 2008 relevant and appropriate.
We describe our 2007 programme will mark the conclusion of the programme to integrate Skandia.
in more detail in the Corporate Responsibility section later in The platform business in the UK continued to go from strength to this report.
strength, continuing to attract assets through its well-established Independent Financial Adviser IFA network.
Skandia Europe and Locally, we monitor customer satisfaction in our operating businesses Latin America ELAM also benefitted from its portfolio approach to ensure that we are providing proper levels of service.
Our products designed to share practices across like regions, which resulted in are also regularly assessed to ensure that clients are receiving value strong unit-linked sales.
While the competitive environment in for money.
Sweden continued to hamper margins, the latter part of the year saw a positive turnaround in sales.
Overall, we believe that, with 5.
Learning synergy targets on track, Skandia has been a very successful, Our business is built on the strength of our staff.
We aim to value-accretive investment for the Group.
employ, develop and retain the best people available in each of our markets.
We invest in our people and particularly focus Investment in the retail distribution system, improvements in our on building a deep and wide pipeline of management and retail offering and new marketing initiatives all helped drive sales leadership talent that reflects the diversity of our geographies.
at Old Mutual South Africa.
With a strong stock market in the early part of the year, IFRS adjusted operating profit at this business Business performance grew by a healthy 23%.
Corporate sales dropped slightly after Full details of the Groups financial performance during the year some large single outflows relating to changing client investment are contained in the Group Finance Directors report, which mandates and some hesitancy over the introduction of the new follows, but let me highlight some of the key developments boutique asset management model.
and achievements of the past year.
2007 was a milestone year for Nedbank.
Management Old Mutual implemented a programme of investment during 2007 successfully achieved the companys four-year recovery targets to develop the Group and place the business on a sound footing for in the first half, and established a revitalised working environment future growth.
A significant amount was achieved in building scale through investment in people, culture and values.
This has and market share, and steps were taken to remain at the forefront provided Nedbank with a solid foundation on which to sustain of innovation and competitive within our markets.
its business performance and its credit and expense management in the more difficult trading conditions that are likely to prevail Strong net client cash flow, a key indicator of business performance during the current year.
and a measure being increasingly adopted as a reporting yardstick by the financial services industry, was a feature of each of our businesses in 2007, in particular at US Asset Management.
Strategy Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 18 Total funds under management breakdown by geography 1999 2001 2007 Funds under management Funds under management Funds under management 45 billion 143 billion 279 billion Rest of the World 40% Rest of the World 23% Rest of the World 2% Southern Africa 60% Southern Africa 10% Southern Africa 15% United States 67% United States 61% Europe 22% Chief Executives review continued Mutual & Federal M&F suffered from a downturn in the Our values underwriting cycle and a reduction in investment income.
Although All our businesses subscribe to the Group values of Integrity, M&F is a solid business, we have stated that it is not core to our Respect, Accountability and Pushing Beyond Boundaries.
These asset gathering and asset management strategy in South Africa values form the glue that helps to bind the Group together and and, toward the end of 2007 we announced that the Group was we also expect all our employees to practise and be judged by in discussions with Royal Bafokeng Holdings to sell Old Mutuals these values.
The discussions continue and we hope to conclude them during the course of 2008.
Summary and outlook During 2007, in conditions that became very challenging during Strong investment performance in the USA again delivered powerful the second half of the year, we focused on building our capabilities net client cash flow, and asset management earnings grew strongly.
I am delighted that during this Acadian Asset Management led the way, but there were also strong period of investment we were able to produce strong earnings performances from Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss, Dwight growth.
Particularly pleasing was the continued delivery of Asset Management Company and Rogge Global Partners, and excellent investment performance across the Group.
This performance fees were particularly good at Campbell.
The US Life stimulated good growth in net client cash flows and funds under business enjoyed exceptionally strong variable annuity sales management, which will stand us in good stead going forward.
in the second half at its Bermuda business and earnings showed a pleasing increase on the underlying trend in the first half.
The Looking ahead, while currency movements and the continued US business was cash generative as planned.
turbulent state of global markets will have an impact on earnings, diversity in product mix and geography, coupled with our robust Our Asia Pacific businesses continue to reflect the impressive capital position and operating momentum in our businesses, give growth of the region.
Sales, the value of new business and the me confidence that we will deliver a resilient performance in 2008. level of funds under management have grown strongly, and our increased focus on the region, including the recent establishment Jim Sutcliffe of a regional headquarters in Hong Kong, stands us in good Chief Executive stead for the medium term.
27 February 2008 Our operating model Our strategy is executed as near to the customer as possible, but within the guidelines of common Group-wide themes.
Our businesses are empowered to decide the products, pricing and distribution options that best meet local customers needs.
They are also encouraged to grow strong local brands where appropriate, but aligned to and endorsed by the Old Mutual brand and its values.
At the centre we identify and facilitate cross-business synergies and knowledge-sharing opportunities and provide a Group-wide framework for governance, capital allocation, risk management, brand and talent management which sets common parameters for the local businesses.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review 19 Our vision is to be a premier international savings and wealth management business.
We are well positioned in attractive markets and, with a sharp focus on delivery, we aim to capitalise on the excellent growth opportunities that lie ahead of us.
Strategy priorities Actions Organic growth Aim to strengthen investment performance Keep building distribution channels and relationships Add ground-breaking product solutions Continue to develop our leading open-architecture platforms Reduce expenses Benchmark against the best Reduce the number of capital-intensive products Re-use skills across the regions and businesses where applicable Asia Pacific Additional opportunities have been identified and expansion plans developed for existing countries in which we do business Further countries have been identified and market-entry plans developed A new regional office has been established by the Company in Hong Kong People Accelerate the implementation of the Group-wide management development programme Share and apply knowledge across the Group Corporate Responsibility Report carbon footprint and aim to reduce this within Group targets Strategy
