Group Chief Executives strategic review In 2007, the Groups operating performance was outstanding building on the very strong momentum established in 2005 and 2006.
The combination of our retirement-led strategy, a clear focus on generating profitable growth, and excellence in the delivery of our plans is driving shorter-term performance and also placing the Group in a strong position from which to outperform in the longer term.
The retirement market offers significant long-term sustainable growth opportunities as the biggest demographic wave in history transitions out of the workforce and into retirement.
The Prudential Group has a strong presence in this sector based on our financial strength, our investment and risk management skills, our brands and our product and distribution expertise.
The Group has the flexibility to optimise its capture of the retirement opportunity as it develops in each of our chosen markets and our business model creates significant financial and operational synergies.
Within each market our focus Mark Tucker is to operate in areas where we see sustainable competitive Group Chief Executive advantage and in products and distribution channels that have sound and sustainable economics.
The combination of our retirement-led Group performance strategy, a clear focus on generating Group operating profit before tax from continuing operations, profitable growth, and excellence in the on the European Embedded Value EEV basis increased by 25 per cent in the year to 2,542 million and has doubled delivery of our plans is driving shorter-term over a three-year period.
The Groups return on embedded performance and also placing the Group value was 15.4 per cent 2006: 14.5 per cent.
in a strong position from which to On the statutory International Financial Reporting outperform in the longer term.
Standards IFRS basis, operating profit before tax from continuing operations was up 20 per cent to 1,213 million, almost doubling over a three-year period.
Group strategy overview Our objective Our assets and capabilities Prudentials overriding objective is to generate sustainable Within these markets, we will continue to leverage our brands, value for our shareholders by combining a clear focus on our product innovation skills and our investment management delivering profitable growth in the short term, with sound and risk management expertise to develop and deliver strategic positioning to capture long-term growth opportunities.
solutions that meet the changing needs of customers throughout their preand post-retirement years, and we Our strategic focus will further strengthen our powerful distribution networks Our strategy is centred on the global retirement opportunity, to enable us to bring those products to market successfully.
where we believe we have the assets and capabilities to We will use our local knowledge to ensure we tailor capture a disproportionate share of this growing profit pool solutions to local market needs while, at the same time, over the coming years.
continuing to leverage the benefits of the Group as a whole in terms of greater capital efficiency, greater risk appetite Our key markets and operational synergies.
Geographically, we will focus on expanding our existing franchises in Asia, the US and the UK, where we already hold strong and often market-leading positions.
14 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Overview Across the Groups insurance operations new business Insurance operations increased by 21 per cent to 2,874 million on an Annual In Asia we continue to power ahead with the region accounting Premium Equivalent APE basis and profit on new business for 54 per cent of new business profits.
New business on an was 1,215 million, up 22 per cent.
Average margin across APE basis increased by 44 per cent to 1,306 million and all the Group was maintained at 42 per cent 2006: 42 per cent.
businesses across the region grew by 15 per cent or more.
Operating profit in the Groups asset management New business profit was 653 million, up 34 per cent.
operations increased by 28 per cent, to 334 million in what Having achieved compound growth of 26 per cent since 2005 was an excellent year for these businesses in increasingly we expect to deliver, one year earlier than previously stated, challenging conditions.
on our target of at least doubling 2005 new business profit The cash flow position continued to improve and we are by 2009.
EEV operating profit in Asia exceeded 1 billion progressing well towards our target of being operating cash for the first time this year as the business goes from strength flow positive at the Group level in 2008.
The holding companys to strength.
operating cash flow in 2007 was negative 82 million.
During Growth in our proprietary agency force, greater agency the year the Group received 527 million from the sale of Egg, productivity and the continuing development of non-agency the UK internet banking operation.
This resulted in an overall distribution, in particular bancassurance, remain central to holding company cash inflow of 445 million.
The Groups balance sheet and regulatory capital The agency force across the region increased by 125,000 position remain robust.
In particular, across the Group we to 410,000 during the year and there was significant expansion have been cautious on credit for some time and we have been in India where average agent numbers more than doubled increasingly moving the portfolio to a more defensive position.
Throughout the rest of the region the average Outside the normal market value movements across the Group number of agents increased by 10 per cent to 112,000. related to interest rates and widening credit spreads, net credit Agency productivity has also moved ahead strongly in a losses on debt securities in the US were 78 million.
number of markets including Singapore, Hong Kong and The Board has recommended a final dividend of 12.3 pence Vietnam.
The continuing success of our multi-distribution per share, bringing the full year dividend to 18 pence per share, approach led to sales through non-agency channels an increase of five per cent.
The dividend was covered 1.9 times increasing by 44 per cent and we added a number by post-tax IFRS operating profit from continuing operations.
of important new distribution relationships.
The Board will focus on delivering a growing dividend, The retirement opportunity in the region is emerging which will continue to be determined after taking into account rapidly and we are developing innovative, integrated savings the Groups financial flexibility and opportunities to invest in and protection solutions to meet consumers increasingly areas of the business offering attractive returns.
Our retirement campaigns under the believes that in the medium term a dividend cover of around banner Whats your number?
have had considerable success two-times is appropriate.
in Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong and we are now rolling this concept out into other markets.
Business unit strategies Asia United Kingdom Prudentials strategy in Asia is to continue to build quality, Prudential UKs strategy is to concentrate on those areas multi-channel distribution that delivers customer-centric of the retirement savings and income markets where it and profitable products in segments that have the potential can generate attractive returns, capitalising on its longevity for sustained growth, with an increasing emphasis on experience, multi-asset management capabilities, brand retirement solutions.
United States M&G The US is the largest retirement savings market in the M&Gs strategy is to focus on delivering superior investment world, and the strategy of Jackson National Life Insurance performance and maximising risk-adjusted returns for its Company Jackson is to leverage its product innovation retail, wholesale and internal clients.
skills, relationship-based distribution model and low cost infrastructure to capture a growing and profitable share of this market.
15 Group Chief Executives strategic review continued 2007 Summary Priorities 2007 Summary Achievements Group Improve Group holding company cash flow and maintain Operating cash flow improved and we are on target to robust capital position be operating cash flow positive in 2008.
The Groups Insurance Groups Directive IGD surplus is estimated Deliver growing dividend, targeting two-times cover at 1.4 billion.
over time The full year dividend is up five per cent with 1.9 times cover.
Share expertise and innovation across the Group We continue to share expertise across borders.
For example, we have drawn on Jacksons experience to offer variable annuity products in Asia.
Asia At least double 2005 new business profits by 2009 Asia expected to deliver doubling of 2005 EEV new business profit a year early.
Expand distribution and improve productivity Agent numbers grew by 125,000 to 410,000, and agency sales were up 44 per cent.
Agent productivity increased, including improvements of 67 per cent in Vietnam and 21 per cent in Singapore.
Continue product innovation with focus on retirement We launched the Whats your number?
retirement and health campaign in six Asian markets, and new health products in Singapore, India and Hong Kong.
United States Continue to enhance and expand the existing product We introduced six guaranteed living benefits and a further offering 20 investment options to our variable annuity product.
Continue to take profitable share of variable annuities Our variable annuity market share grew to 5.1 per cent, up from 4.6 per cent in 2006.
Increase share of US retail asset management market We launched a range of retail mutual fund products.
Curian increased assets under management by 42 per cent in 2007.
United Kingdom Build retirement income business We wrote one in four of the UKs individual annuities and grew our lifetime mortgage business to a 14 per cent market share.
Focus on profitable retirement savings and wholesale We have withdrawn from unprofitable product areas opportunities and developed a factory gate proposition aimed at distribution partners with good persistency.
We completed the 1.7 billion Equitable Life transaction.
Deliver targeted cost savings By the end of 2007, 115 million of the cost saving target of 195 million had been delivered and plans are in place to deliver the additional 80 million.
Consider reattribution of the inherited estate We nominated a Policyholder Advocate.
A decision whether to proceed will be made in the first half of 2008.
Asset management Maintain strong investment performance 45 per cent of M&Gs retail mutual funds delivered top quartile performance.
86 per cent of segregated institutional mandates met or exceeded their benchmarks.
Develop product range New funds were launched in five Asian markets, the US and the UK.
Expand distribution reach M&G increased its distribution reach in Europe, and our Asian business broadened its multi-channel distribution network across the region.
16 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Overview There is also significant scope to develop our positioning EEV operating profit from continuing operations in the health insurance market across the region and, with before tax m the launch of a number of new products, notably in Singapore and India, sales of health products in the year have increased by 45 per cent.
% The US is the largest retirement market in the world and 25 our long-term strategy has been to position Jackson to meet 2007 2,542m the preand post-retirement needs of the baby boomer generation.
In 2007, variable annuity new business increased 2006 2,030m by 29 per cent to 455 million on an APE basis.
Jackson has been the fastest-growing variable annuity provider in the Comparative on a CER basis.
US over the past six years, clearly demonstrating the success of our strategy and our advice-based approach.
The variable annuity product in the US is increasingly being IFRS operating profit from continuing operations used by the consumer to provide an income in retirement.
before tax m In 2007, almost two-thirds of Jacksons customers were over 55 and two-thirds of all variable annuity sales included a guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit.
Jackson continues % to innovate and develop its market-leading Perspective II 20 product, which has been the top-selling variable annuity contract in the fast-growing Independent Broker channel 2007 1,213m for each of the last five years.
2006 1,008m We will focus on expanding our existing Comparative on a CER basis.
franchises in Asia, the US and the UK where we already hold strong and often market-leading positions.
Overall new business in the US increased by 19 per cent to 671 million, on an APE basis, new business profit also increased by 19 per cent with margins maintained at 42 per cent and an internal rate of return of 19 per cent.
In 2007 we set out our strategy in the UK to focus primarily on the retirement income market based in particular on our strengths in the annuity market but also the developing lifetime mortgage and income drawdown markets.
In the retirement savings market we have exited those product areas that are structurally unprofitable and launched a new range of factory gate priced savings products.
Retail new business increased by four per cent in a market where the competitive pressures increased still further during the year.
In 2007 we also completed the transfer of Equitable Lifes 1.7 billion in-force portfolio of with-profits annuities: however in general, pricing across the bulk market was not adequate to meet our return on capital requirements and we chose not to write business at uneconomic levels.
The margin at 31 per cent 2006: 30 per cent remained high in comparison to the overall UK market as did the internal rate of return which was 18 per cent including the Equitable Life transaction and 14 per cent excluding it.
Our target internal rate of return in the UK is 14 per cent.
17 Group Chief Executives strategic review continued By the end of 2007, 115 million of the cost saving target EEV shareholders funds m of 195 million had been delivered and plans are in place to deliver the additional 80 million.
A key milestone this year in the UK was the signing of a major contract to outsource % a large proportion of its back book and new business policy 24 administration.
The outsource agreement will allow us to remove fixed costs from our operations and to achieve 2007 14,779m significant operating efficiencies, with an expected positive 2006 11,910m effect on embedded value estimated at 60 million by 2011.
The in-force profit for the UK business includes a charge Comparative on a CER basis.
in respect of a mortality assumption change on the annuity business of 312 million which is fully offset by a release External funds under management bn of excess margins previously held.
In 2007 we announced that the Group would consider a reattribution of the inherited estate held in the with-profits % sub-fund of The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
19 We are continuing to explore the possibility of a reattribution and we aim to be in a position in the first half of 2008 to 2007 69bn determine whether this would be in the best interests of policyholders and shareholders.
Asset management The Groups asset management businesses had another excellent year.
Our international investment management expertise continues to add value to our insurance operations and also supported the growth in external funds under management to 69 billion at the end of 2007 2006: 57 billion.
M&Gs net inflows were the second highest on record at 5 billion and profit increased by 25 per cent to 254 million.
Our business in Asia continued its excellent growth record with net inflows of 3 billion and operating profit growing to 72 million, up 53 per cent.
Our skills in risk management and our strength across all asset classes in the UK, the US and in Asia, combined with our multi-asset allocation capabilities, position us well to meet the diverse needs of our customers for savings, retirement income and protection products.
This is clearly evidenced in the UK where the main withprofits fund, with assets of over 74 billion, was ranked first in 2006 in the WM Companys survey of with-profits funds, based on gross investment performance over one, three, five and 10 years.
In the US, one of the key drivers of our success is our ability to provide customised and highly flexible benefit options within our main variable annuity product that are individually priced for the customer and in Asia we continue to see success in our targeted unit-linked and protection products.
18 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Overview Outlook 2008 Priorities There is significant volatility and nervousness in markets Our overriding objective for 2008 remains and it seems clear that there will be a period of less attractive economic growth trends in the US and in the UK than we have that of continuing to create value for our seen in recent years.
Notwithstanding this, we believe that shareholders by fully exploiting the power our strategy and our business model are very robust and will of our retirement-led strategy and continuing continue to deliver sustainable value.
to expand the excellent businesses that we In Asia, the fundamentals underpinning economic growth have in place today.
remain powerful and our businesses are very well placed to benefit.
We expect to deliver, one year earlier than previously stated, on our target of at least doubling 2005 new business Life insurance profit by 2009.
Asia Overall the prospects for the Group in Expand the agency force and continue to 2008 remain positive.
Over the longer-term, improve productivity the demographic, economic and social Maximise the potential from non-agency factors driving our business will continue distribution and add new partners Further develop direct marketing channels and we are ideally positioned to capture and up-sell and cross-sell a greater share of that growth.
Increase focus on retirement services and health products In the US, our record of outperformance is set to continue and our value driven strategy in the UK is on track.
In the UK we US have already fide-emphasised those products which might have Continue to innovate around our key variable been more sensitive to market conditions.
annuity product Our asset management businesses, although more directly Enhance further our already world-class influenced by market movements, are well placed to capitalise operating platform on their strong market positions and investment performance Expand retail distribution to deliver net flows and profit growth.
Selectively participate in the institutional market Overall the prospects for the Group in 2008 remain positive.
Over the longer term, the demographic, economic UK and social factors driving our business will continue and we are Build on our strengths in the retirement market ideally positioned to capture a greater share of that growth.
and risk products Migrate to factory gate cautiously managed asset accumulation products Deliver on the cost reduction programme including the outsource programme Selectively participate in the wholesale market Determine whether it is in the best interest of policyholders and shareholders to pursue a reattribution of the inherited estate Asset management Maintain superior investment performance for both internal and external funds Extend third party retail and institutional businesses 19
