Chief executives statement One of the most pleasing gures Organic growth to report in relation to our results Our net organic growth rate of 7.8% in Rathbone Investment Management including Rathbone for 2007 is our organic growth Investment Management International was a rate.
By this we mean the growth particularly impressive performance given the rather more turbulent period we entered in the second in our overall funds under half of the year.
We would not necessarily expect this management coming either from to continue until markets have stabilised and have a clearer sense of direction.
existing clients adding to their Nevertheless this performance demonstrates the funds with us or from new clients underlying strength of our business and the ability gained by our existing managers of our investment managers to gain significant new business always remembering the gure of 7.8% in other words excluding any is after the loss withdrawal of funds by clients on newly-joined investment managers death, to pay tax bills and for other expenditures.
Particularly prominent in this growth have been our or corporate acquisitions.
ofces in Edinburgh and Bristol including Rathbone Greenbank, our ethical investment service based in Bristol.
These ofces have achieved growth in funds under management of 14% and 11% respectively to 1.1 billion and 650 million which demonstrates what can be achieved with some hard work and some focused marketing.
Charity mandates In recent years we have built a significant presence in the smaller charity market ie those charities with less than 50 million of funds under management.
This was substantially enhanced when we acquired the Dexia UK business in 2006 where they already had a strong presence in the charity marketplace.
Combining these teams and successful new business activity means we now have over 1 billion of charity funds under management and it is an area we continue to develop with specialist teams based in London and Liverpool spearheading our approach to this marketplace.
There is now much more pressure on charity trustees to monitor fund performance and to ask investment managers regularly to repitch for their mandate.
This is both good and bad, but to date has led to us gaining signicantly from our competitors.
6 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Marketing Over the last few years alternative products have become more important and these range from Our marketing efforts continue, although a great investment in private equity, funds of hedge funds deal of time during the year was spent producing through to structured products designed to protect documentation for MiFID Markets in Financial capital and to take advantage of movements in Instruments Directive another piece of Europeandifferent markets around the world.
We are putting led legislation which created a significant amount increasing amounts of time and effort into researching of work during the year.
these complex areas to ensure that our investment That aside we have also worked hard to increase our managers are able to select from what we consider overall brand awareness and many of you will have to be the best available and most appropriate noticed that our national press advertising campaign products in the marketplace.
This advertising not only brings in Maintaining our independent stance and therefore clients as a direct result of the advertisements, it also looking across the whole of the marketplace for the greatly increases our name awareness.
We have also best available products for us to invest in for our put more marketing effort into supporting our clients is something we shall continue to place great relationship with key intermediaries, particularly emphasis on during 2008 and the coming years.
IFAs who are the first port of call for many clients who seek advice, particularly about their pension Offshore investment management services assets and self-invested personal pensions SIPPs.
In Jersey we have concentrated on enhancing our We have continued to develop our approach to offering through Rathbone Investment Management SIPP panels and are now a recognised provider of International.
Our offshore capability is an important discretionary investment management services on part of our service offering and we are looking at ways the panels of several life company products.
Although of improving and enhancing it in the coming year.
it is early days for many of these relationships, we Although we lost two investment management staff see this as an attractive way of further growing funds during the year, we have recruited a team of four who under management as SIPPs continue to be a very joined in January 2008 from a competitor rm.
In powerful product for retirement planning for our addition, we launched a new multi-asset class funds typical client.
service for offshore trustees in September.
Expanding our investment Unit trusts management team After an excellent first half our unit trusts suffered Although fewer professionals have joined us from from a net outow of funds in the second half other rms during the year, we have had a few of the year, in common with much of the industry.
notable successes attracting investment managers Although the uncertain economic environment and from Rensburg Sheppard, Barings, Close Brothers the continuing weakness in consumer confidence have and HSBC.
These recruitments have helped us expand lead to further net redemptions in the first months our presence in Winchester, the charities area and of 2008, performance has improved and our largest our offshore investment business based in Jersey.
fund, the Rathbone Income Fund, is back in the We also have plans to add to our existing network second quartile in the first two months of 2008 of ofces in the UK and will have a presence in Exeter and back in the highly regarded White List of top later this year through a small acquisition and an quality income funds compiled by IFA, Principal ofce in Aberdeen established by existing investment Investment Management.
management staff from our Edinburgh ofce.
Trust and tax services The Rathbone Investment Process As you will see from the results, our trust and tax Underpinning our success in generating new business had a rather better year than in 2006, business is the resource we have applied to the although there continue to be concerns at the focus continuing development of the Rathbone Investment by the government on non-domiciled individuals Process.
Our offering and our clients requirements and offshore jurisdictions generally.
It is increasingly are becoming more sophisticated, and we look important in an international trust business to offer to maintain our position of being able to make a range of jurisdictions and to that end we acquired independent investment decisions across a wide a business in Singapore during the year and one of range of asset classes.
our directors from Jersey has moved out to Singapore to manage that business.
We now have a team of 11 in Singapore and look forward to seeing the business develop further.
7 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Chief executives statement continued Disposals in 2007 The building in Liverpool is part way through a major refurbishment programme being conducted I referred earlier to our acquisition of the UK Dexia by the landlord which had originally envisaged business in the context of our charity mandates but it putting a further oor on the top of the building should also be noted that during the first part of 2007 while we remained in occupation!.
At the time we sold the banking part of that business.
This was a of writing that additional oor development looks small deposit and client base which had no investment unlikely to go ahead but the refurbishment of management connection with us.
This business was the building is continuing.
This will signicantly bought by Buttereld Bank UK Limited and the improve the ofce space we occupy in Liverpool.
relevant staff transferred to them.
However there is considerable disruption as the work proceeds and it is expected to last for at least Investing in people another 12 months.
I would like to thank all the We have continued to invest in people and have spent staff in Liverpool for putting up with the problems more money than in the past on training activities.
The recruitment of a new head of training and new staff in her team has signicantly enhanced our Sue Desborough training capability and, for the first time, in 2007 we Finally I would also like to pay a very personal have recruited individuals into Rathbone Investment tribute to Sue Desborough with whom I worked for Management on to a structured graduate programe.
some 13 years, initially at Kleinwort Benson and Eight graduates joined us in September and will spend then at Rathbones.
She will be deeply missed.
a year getting to know the business.
This is an exciting development and early indications are very positive.
It is something we will be watching with interest and would very much hope to repeat in the future, although probably not annually.
Andy Pomfret Investing in our buildings Chief Executive We have had a very active year in 2007 with our 5 March 2008 two key buildings, 159 New Bond Street in London and the Port of Liverpool Building.
In London we have just completed a refurbishment of all of 159 New Bond Street.
This has provided us with much better space for staff and clients, and we have taken the opportunity to expand the number of meeting rooms available as our business continues to grow.
8 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007
