6 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group CEOs review ACHIEvING OUR TARGETS 2007 has been a good year for the and during 2007, we completed the buyout of Operating result the Codan minorities and are delighted to have Group and in challenging market this business under our full ownership.
conditions, we have again delivered 814m a strong performance.
The results 814 We have also further strengthened our capital have been achieved against the position, and I am pleased we achieved our goal backdrop of a competitive rate 780 of regaining our full A credit rating from environment, adverse large losses Standard & Poors last December.
and weather, including the UK 743 floods, and volatile investment Strong financial performance markets.
The results clearly demonstrate the benefit of our strong In 2007 we increased net written premiums by and diversified portfolio and our tight 6% to 5.8bn, with growth across all three operational and financial management.
regions coming from both organic initiatives and our bolt on acquisitions.
International grew ahead of the market, Emerging Markets 05 06 07 We have continued to deliver on our strategic delivered double digit growth and, in the UK, priorities.
The disposal of our US business last we targeted profitable growth in Personal and March resolved our last remaining legacy issue Commercial specialty lines.
and we are now solely focused on continuing to deliver our objective of sustainable The underwriting result was 278m and was profitable performance.
after the UK flood losses of 120m, as well as adverse weather and large loss experience Our results clearly demonstrate the strength across the Group.
The combined operating of the Group.
All our regions International, ratio COR for the Group was 94.9%, which Emerging Markets and the UK have achieved included 2.1% for the flood losses.
The profitable growth and strong bottom line operating result increased by 4% to 814m and results.
International and Emerging Markets benefited from the strong underwriting result delivered over 50% of the Groups premiums and a 13% increase in the investment result to 2007 2006 Net written premiums 5,837m 5,484m Underwriting result 278m 310m Operating result 814m 780m Combined operating ratio 94.9% 93.3% Underlying return on equity 21.3% 20.7% Introduction Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 7 629m, which was driven by our high quality dealerships and internet channels.
Codan is a UK portfolio and low risk investment strategy.
very attractive business with excellent The UK remains our most competitive market prospects and following the minority buyout, but we continue to target profitable growth in Profit after tax rose significantly to 628m, and as part of the ongoing financial management Personal and Commercial lines.
We continued benefiting from one of the early actions taken of the Group, we have identified and released to take a disciplined approach to risk selection post the Codan minority buyout.
and rating, and premiums were up 3% to 2.7bn.
In terms of underwriting, the UK Regional overview In Canada, premiums were up 6% 9% on delivered a profit of 65m and a COR of 97.6%, constant exchange to 703m, with Johnson even after the impact of the floods.
International delivering 8% growth 11% on constant Our objective in International is to drive the exchange and good performances from both In Personal, premiums were up 27% to 1.1bn.
businesses harder and deliver growth ahead of our Commercial and Personal Intermediated MORE TH N had another strong year with the market.
We have made good progress in businesses.
We are now the market leader in premiums up 8% and new business up 10%.
2007 with some excellent performances from British Columbia following the acquisition of We have made excellent progress on customer the individual businesses.
Premiums were up 8% Canadian Northern Shield, which completed focused initiatives and over 170,000 customers to 2.5bn, driven by expanded distribution and in December 2007. signed up to our new Personal Customer targeted acquisitions.
Were delivering on our plans increased 38% to 206m, and the COR In Other Europe, Ireland continues to perform to significantly grow our Affinity business.
As expected, strongly, driven by EGI, our specialty motor Premiums were up 18% and we won five new International contributed the largest share of insurer and in Italy premiums were up by 14% deals in the year worth around 50m.
as we expanded our agent network.
In Scandinavia, we successfully completed the Codan minority buyout and in 2007, Codan continued to deliver strong results and above market growth.
Premiums were up 8% to 1.4bn, driven by a good performance from White Label, our 2006 acquisition, and continued growth in bancassurance, car 8 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group CEOs review continued In Commercial, net written premiums were capabilities, putting a high quality central team in Premiums were up 11% 15% on constant down 9% to 1.6bn as we maintained our place and making two new CEO appointments exchange in Latin America driven by a strong commitment to underwriting discipline and the in India and China.
Across the region there are performance in Chile and good growth in withdrawal of capacity from areas of the market exciting opportunities for profitable growth.
Marine across Brazil and Mexico.
During 2007, where the rate, terms and conditions do not meet We already have established positions in Latin we also took the opportunity to exit the our underwriting criteria.
Our focus on specialty America, Asia and the Middle East and the Venezuelan market, as it was not a market lines is paying off.
In Marine, premiums were up by Baltics and we are targeting double digit where we wanted to increase our exposure.
8% and during the year we launched six new premium growth.
trading units, including Property Investors, In Asia and the Middle East, premiums were up Construction and Engineering, and Risk Solutions.
In 2007, premiums were up 16% 19% on 8% 15% on constant exchange, driven by a constant exchange to 615m reflecting strong strong motor performance in the UAE.
We Emerging Markets growth across all markets.
The underwriting were also the first European insurer to secure Emerging Markets had a strong first year as a result increased 64% to 18m and the COR approval for a subsidiary licence for our Chinese separate region.
In 2007, we focused on building was 2 points better at 95.3%.
business and this will enable us to accelerate our Industry overview 2007 was a challenging year for the The flooding events in the summer meant that by high quality bonds and cash.
We have no the Governments management and funding of exposure to US subprime mortgage securities industry with a competitive rating flood defences was pushed right to the top of and we reported a stronger investment result environment, adverse weather the political agenda.
The Government was this year.
losses and financial market turmoil.
criticised by the Association of British Insurers In addition, there were and other industry players for allocating less In the EU, the main focus was the appearance developments on future regulation funding for flood defences in the Pre Budget of the Commissions proposal for a Solvency II with the European Commission Review than the industry had asked for.
The Directive on capital requirements for insurance issuing its proposal for the industry has continued to push for increased companies.
The Directive is intended to replace Solvency II Directive.
spending on flood defences and more outdated European insurance legislation with a responsible planning decisions in response to consolidated set of requirements for supervision, The rating environment in 2007 has remained the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Select capital, risk management and reporting.
It should mixed by business class and region.
As a Group Committee Enquiry on Flooding and the Pitt help improve the effectiveness of supervision we benefited from our broad portfolio which Review on Lessons Learned from the 2007 floods.
of insurance groups by helping to transfer best gave us a balance of exposure to different practice and skills between supervisors.
The markets at different points in the cycle.
In the There has been much speculation about the Commissions proposal will be debated and UK, weve been consistent in our strategy and impact of the turmoil in the credit markets on amended by the European Parliament and actions, putting rate through where required in the industry.
We already had in place a low risk Council of Ministers during 2008.
RSA is very both Personal and Commercial lines.
We investment strategy and took action during the supportive of the Commissions proposal and expect a similar picture in 2008 with a mixed year to further strengthen the defensive nature has been lobbying to that effect through the rating environment by region and class.
of our investment portfolio, which is dominated Association of British Insurers and the Treasury and also directly with policymakers in Brussels.
Introduction Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 9 expansion plans and open a network of On rate, we put through increases across the Combined operating ratio branches across China.
In Canada, we increased rate in Household by 5%, while Personal Motor 94.9% Growth was particularly strong in the Baltics, was flat throughout the year.
We received 94.9 with premiums up 35%.
We have strengthened approval for small net increases in Ontario 94.1 our number one position in Lithuania and Motor and will be making further rate filings 93.3 expanded into new markets, opening our during 2008.
Canadian Commercial lines Estonian operation in November.
remained competitive and rates overall were down.
However, this is against the backdrop of Finally, in Eastern Europe, we are building good significant increases over the last few years and momentum through our joint venture.
We are it remains a profitable market.
the leading direct writer in Poland, have launched in the Czech Republic, and plan to In the UK, we have been consistent in our open in Russia in 2008. strategy and in our actions and have continued to put rate through the book where required.
Delivering sustainable profitable In Personal, we put rates up by mid single digits 05 06 07 performance as we have done consistently over the last five years.
In Commercial, we increased rates in While 2007 was a strong year, our goal is to Property by 3% and in Motor by 8%.
Liability deliver sustainable profitable performance over was down 1% but this compares to a 9% the long term, and that is what we have achieved reduction at the same time in 2006. over the last four years with combineds in the mid 90s.
This sustained performance reflects On expenses, we continue to take action to our strong and diversified portfolio and is improve our efficiency and performance.
underpinned by our tight operational and We have met our original 130m expense financial management.
savings target ahead of schedule and are on track to deliver an additional 70m of savings Operational management by the middle of 2008.
During 2007, we have continued to take the right action on rate and expenses, as well as In terms of building and expanding our continuing to build and improve our capabilities.
capabilities, we have taken a number of actions While 2007 was a strong year, our goal is to deliver sustainable profitable performance over the long term, and that is what we have achieved over the last four years with combineds in the mid 90s.
10 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group CEOs review continued in 2007.
We further strengthened the Executive Strong outlook Our new brand Team with three significant new appointments: As we move the business forward, now is an Tim Mitchell was appointed as Group During 2007, we resolved our last remaining appropriate time to simplify and refresh our Underwriting and Claims Director, Clare Salmon legacy issue and we are now fully focused on corporate brand.
Royal & SunAlliance was joined us as Group Strategy, Marketing and continuing to deliver our objective of sustainable created over 10 years ago as the product of Customer Director and David Weymouth profitable performance.
With our strong the merger and given the fundamental changes joined us as Group Operations and IT Director.
portfolio and the actions we are taking, we are that the business has gone through we wanted confident that we will continue to deliver the to develop a new brand strategy to support Our underwriting and claims skills are market profitable performance that we have seen over our growth plans.
As part of this we have leading and provide a genuine source of the last few years.
refreshed and modernised our identity and competitive advantage.
We launched our will now be known simply as RSA.
Technical Academy in 2006 to develop the We are seeing exciting opportunities for next generation of talent and this year we profitable growth across the portfolio with added a global technical graduate programme good topline momentum across the Group.
that aims to attract high calibre new entrants We expect to achieve above market growth into the industry.
in International, targeted profitable growth in the UK, while continuing to take the right Finally, we have made real progress on action on rate, and double digit growth in employee engagement and our annual global Emerging Markets.
employee survey showed further Across our international markets, RSA is a improvements this year with the overall We are confident that each region will continue brand which is more accessible for both our satisfaction response up 2%.
Listening to our to deliver strong results and we expect customers and staff, many of whom already employees feedback and acting on it is a key International to again deliver the majority of refer to us as RSA.
We also want to maximise part of our culture.
That is why the work that the Groups underwriting result in 2008, led by the benefits of an international brand to has been undertaken on our brand has been a strong Scandinavian performance.
support our businesses in their local shaped by significant input from more than markets and you will start to see brands 600 employees from across the Group.
Our overriding commitment is to sustainable such as MORE TH N and Codan more profitable performance and as we announced heavily endorsed by RSA.
The new identity Financial management with our full year results we expect to deliver is being used for the first time in this Annual In terms of financial management, we continue a combined ratio of around 95% in 2008.
Report and Accounts and we will introduce to exercise strong control.
This is clearly evident the new style over time as part of a managed in our approach to reinsurance which protected roll out process, keeping the cost of the us against the impact of the UK floods.
We also changeover to a minimum.
maintain a strong reserving policy and have in place a high quality, low risk investment strategy.
Our investment portfolio is dominated by high Andy Haste quality bonds and cash and we have taken Group CEO further action to strengthen the defensive nature of the portfolio.
George covers this in more detail in his Financial review.
