Group Chief Executives review 10 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Chief Executives review For The Royal Bank of Scotland Group, 2007 was Retail delivered strong growth in savings and investment products while maintaining a cautious approach to unsecured defined by another strong operating performance credit.
Our success is built on customer satisfaction, and on and by the acquisition of ABN AMRO.
this metric RBS and NatWest maintained their lead over the other major high street banks.
Wealth Managements trajectory The diversity and quality of our business platform remains very strong.
We continued to expand Coutts UKs enabled us to deliver good financial results, with regional franchise and achieved significant growth in Asia-Pacific.
operating profit for the enlarged RBS Group rising Ulster Bank maintained its strong growth record and we have by 9% to 10,282 million.
Our earnings momentum continued to invest in the good opportunities for future growth remained powerful, notwithstanding the impact of presented by the Irish market.
Citizens further developed its challenging credit market conditions in the second franchise, increasing its consumer banking customer base by half of the year.
2% and achieving good results in its growing corporate and commercial banking operations.
Our results demonstrate the resilience of the Group in the face of testing circumstances.
The summer floods came during the In RBS Insurance, we have built on our strong position as wettest May to July in England and Wales since records began the UKs leading personal lines insurer by further sharpening in 1766.
While RBS Insurance responded magnificently to meet our focus on selective underwriting of the more profitable the needs of customers in distress, the impact on profits is segments, reducing volumes in others.
Of course, results were evident.
The pace of activity in the US slowed as the housing held back by the floods, but excluding this, operating profit market weakened, leading to challenging conditions for Global grew strongly.
Banking & Markets GBM and Citizens.
Later in the summer began the dislocation in credit markets, which made the second Manufacturing is central to the way we operate, underpinning half a turbulent period for the financial services sector.
our determination to deliver service to our customers while deriving scale benefits achievable from sharing infrastructure, Delivering such a robust financial performance in this processes and services across our businesses.
We held cost environment is the consequence of action in two areas: over growth to just 1%, despite continued investment in technology a number of years we have diversified the Groups income and property to support increased transaction volumes and streams and last year also saw us benefit from our focus on the development of our business.
credit quality and risk management with our impairments, excluding ABN AMRO, down 1%.
Capital The Groups Tier 1 capital ratio at 31 December was 7.3% Our customers and businesses and our total capital ratio 11.2%, within our target ranges.
The Group now serves over 40 million customers in 53 countries At the time of the bid for ABN AMRO we indicated our intention worldwide.
In each of those markets we will continue our to rebuild our capital ratios.
We remain committed to this goal, relentless focus on customers needs.
and the improved financial returns now expected on the acquisition will help to accelerate delivery of the Groups GBM enjoyed another strong first half performance and took capital regeneration commitments.
full advantage of the volatility in the second half to deliver excellent performances in interest rate and currency trading.
Positioned for growth Inevitably, the second half witnessed significantly lower origination This decade has seen considerably stronger economic volumes in credit markets and write-downs on US mortgagegrowth in the developing world, especially Asia, than in the related exposures.
Our UK Corporate Banking business enjoyed West.
Trade and capital flows have been the main drivers of another very successful year maintaining its consistent record rising prosperity.
This growth has spurred demand for many of high single-figure income growth and further advancing its commodities, notably energy.
Within the dynamic Asian market share from a position of leadership.
By continuing to invest economies, the number of wealthy people is growing and in service quality we have achieved market-leading customer around the world affluence is increasingly common.
satisfaction scores and customer numbers increased by 4%.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 Group Chief Executives review continued In recent years we have created options that will allow the framework for managing the enlarged Group in a way that Group to pursue the opportunities for profitable growth fully capitalises on the enhanced range of attractive growth stemming from these economic changes.
Rapid economic opportunities now available to us.
growth raises demand for the routine risk management and payments services in which we have excellent capabilities.
Some of our businesses can best serve customers needs Economic development requires infrastructure investment, by organising themselves on a global basis.
Others are best playing to our strengths in project finance.
Growing demand managed with a more regional focus.
We have therefore for commodities was among the factors prompting our established Global Markets which comprises two divisions, forthcoming joint venture with Sempra Commodities.
We Global Banking & Markets GBM and Global Transaction increased the number of private bankers in Coutts Asia to Services GTS.
The first corresponds largely to the existing capitalise on the regions growing wealth management market.
GBM, enhanced by the product capabilities and customer franchises of ABN AMRO.
GTS will combine ABN AMROs We had also positioned the Group for continued growth in world class capability in international payments with our existing mature markets.
In UK retail banking we anticipated that corporate transaction banking and merchant acquiring activities.
households would save more and successfully boosted our It ranks among the top five payments businesses in the world sales of savings and investment products.
We focused on with operating profit of approximately 1.6 billion in 2007. investing in customer service in UK Corporate Banking and have strengthened our market leading position.
In the US our The remainder of our banking franchises have more distinctively distribution and product capabilities now provide an excellent national or regional characteristics.
It makes sense to continue platform in the corporate and commercial markets.
to manage them on this basis.
We are now represented in an expanded range of countries, and in order to ensure effective ABN AMRO coordination and control we have regrouped our retail and The acquisition of ABN AMRO gives us the ability to accelerate commercial banking activities into four regional divisions: UK our existing strategies for growth outside the UK, particularly Retail and Commercial Banking, US Retail and Commercial in rapidly expanding markets, while adding complementary Banking, Europe and Middle East Retail and Commercial capabilities and customer franchises to our portfolio of Banking, Asia Retail and Commercial Banking.
The integration has made a strong start, and synergies are now expected to total 2.3 billion, compared RBS Insurance will retain its existing structure and strategy.
with our original estimate of 1.7 billion.
We will further extend our manufacturing model across the enlarged Group globally.
Our employees The quality and hard work of our employees are the source Outlook of the Groups success.
Each year we seek their views, It is tempting to think of the task before us in 2008 only in benchmark their responses against our peers and then act on terms of the integration of ABN AMRO, and delivery of the what they tell us.
While the weakening external environment substantial cost and revenue synergies.
To do so, however, and the demands of the ABN AMRO transaction made 2007 would overlook the real opportunities for the enlarged Group.
a challenging year for many employees, a record 90% of our employees participated in Your Feedback 2007.
We made Whilst the future seems as difficult as ever to predict, it is progress on all of the 15 measures, exceeding the Global clear that we enter 2008 with real momentum behind our Financial Services Norm on every indicator.
organic growth, and with our product range, distribution capabilities and customer franchises materially enhanced.
Group structure Coupled with our greater presence in the worlds largest and RBSs organisational architecture has remained largely fastest growing economies, there is much to be done, but a unchanged since 2000.
It now needs to evolve to recognise the confidence that it will be, to the benefit of our shareholders, fact that we are present in over 50 countries and to facilitate our customers and our employees.
the integration and operation of the ABN AMRO businesses.
This new organisational structure will give us the right Sir Fred Goodwin Group Chief Executive 12 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Chief Executives review
