qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 08:41 Page 10 Group Chief Executives Review Multiple engines of growth Our performance in 2007 was underpinned by firm foundations in the way we manage our liquidity, capital, risk profile and costs.
Peter Sands, Group Chief Executive 10 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23001 pp010-015 Q7.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 08:41 Page 11 Firm foundations Overall, I am confident that our strategy for We are a bank with strong liquidity, balancing risk and return and the systems a well-diversified retail funding base and processes that underpin this are working and a conservative balance sheet.
We also take a very disciplined approach have a healthy A D ratio the ratio of towards the management of our cost base.
customer loans to customer deposits We continue to drive for greater efficiency in at 86 per cent: and 24 per cent of our everything we do and manage our investment assets are highly liquid.
Many years of managing in highly We are not going to stop investing for volatile markets mean we have always growth.
The opportunities in our markets taken a proactive approach to managing are hugely exciting and now is the time our liquidity.
But, as always, we will be prepared to pace and scale this investment, We are very well capitalised.
The Groups taking account of changes in our markets capital ratios are well above our target and in our own performance.
ranges, reflecting deliberate and effective 2007 was my first full year as Chief management of the capital base.
In Challenges ahead Executive of Standard Chartered and September 2007, we raised $2 billion in These firm foundations will prove critical I am delighted by our achievements.
Tier 2 capital which, despite stressed to our continued success as we face the Despite the turbulence, financial market conditions, was more than five challenges ahead.
The turmoil in financial shocks and uncertainties in the times oversubscribed.
financial services industry, we have We are very disciplined in the risks we We anticipate strains in the global economy, again delivered record profits.
We have no direct exposure and with the slowdown in the US having at least We have invested in both our businesses very limited indirect exposure to US some effect on our markets in Asia, Africa at record levels and stepped up the pace subprime assets.
Our entire exposure to and the Middle East.
How profound that of organic growth: underlying income asset-backed securities ABS, including effect will be, we do not know.
We have also collateralised debt obligations CDO, We also see a range of political risks in announced six acquisitions since our last is under $6 billion.
Yet, as a bank that has grown set of results.
We have faced challenges and taken up in emerging markets over more than We have not been unscathed by the some writedowns as a result of the financial 150 years, we have plenty of experience financial crisis nor do we expect to be turmoil.
On Whistlejacket, the structured in dealing with such issues.
immune as it continues to unfold.
But our investment vehicle, and on our asset Alongside these external challenges, disciplined approach to running the Group, securitisation portfolio, the profit and loss we also face one major internal challenge: focusing on our strategic priorities, has account impact was $300 million in total.
that of managing extremely rapid growth.
stood us in good stead, and will continue On the other hand, we have had an This is about attracting and developing to do so.
outstanding performance on the corporate exceptional talent, ensuring our culture and loan portfolio and kept a tight grip on We start 2008 confident but not values remain robust, ensuring our control consumer credit.
The Group is in great shape systems and infrastructure keep pace with and both businesses have begun the year We have also had to take some very difficult the business.
It will be a testing year but it will also decisions such as on Whistlejacket.
We be exciting, with new opportunities worked very hard since August to find a emerging alongside new challenges.
viable way forward for Whistlejacket and are disappointed that we were ultimately unable Our performance in 2007 was underpinned to do so.
by firm foundations in the way we manage our liquidity, capital, risk profile and costs.
2007: A rewarding year of growth and momentum It has been a very busy year for the Bank and for me, personally, as I visited our markets around the world to meet our customers, regulators and colleagues to share our vision to become the worlds best international bank.
Singapore First visit as CEO India Continued growth in Chennai Visiting Singapore always feels like a Chennai, our biggest technology and homecoming for me as I grew up here.
operations hub, continued to grow.
Singapore is also the hub for many of We have 5,500 people in this centre our Groups global businesses and and this number will double over the home for many of our clients.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 08:41 Page 12 Group Chief Executives Review continued We said we wanted to be the worlds best international bank.
That is still our aspiration and we are making good progress on that journey.
Emerging opportunities Our biggest single business, Consumer This is a superb franchise.
We have added Alongside these challenges, new Banking in Hong Kong, delivered a more than 1,000 clients over the last three opportunities are emerging.
We are hiring 22 per cent increase in profits and a years and have more than 100 clients excellent talent from our competitors, 17 per cent increase in income.
This is the generating income of more than $1 million.
attracted by our strength, brand and first time in six years that this business has We are investing in front-line staff, in new growth potential.
We are seeing a flight to achieved double-digit income growth.
products and in infrastructure, seizing the quality, with a good inflow of deposits.
We This performance was driven by strong opportunities emerging from Indias rapid are seeing better pricing and differentiation growth in wealth management, with economic growth and the dynamism of its of risk: the return of more rational pricing income up 25 per cent, and in our Small corporate sector.
for risk is undoubtedly good for us and for and Medium Enterprise SME Banking the industry.
With 83 branches across the country, business, up 36 per cent.
We have opened Standard Chartered has the largest network And we are seeing opportunities to deepen two dedicated SME Banking centres and of branches among foreign banks in India.
our relationships with our customers.
now have nearly 40,000 SME customers.
Including our Global Shared Service Centre in Chennai, which provides operational and At times like these, it is critically important Our investment in Consumer Banking in technology support to our businesses to be clear on our strategy and priorities.
Hong Kong during 2007 has produced across the world, we employ 18,000 Standard Chartered has a clear and immediate results and we will continue people in India, making it by far our largest consistent strategy, well understood by to invest in this business.
In 2003, Wholesale Banking in Hong Kong also had we said we wanted to be the worlds best Overall, including Consumer Banking, India an outstanding year, with profits up 50 international bank, leading the way in Asia, broke through $1 billion in income for the per cent on 46 per cent higher income.
In Africa and the Middle East.
That is still our first time in 2007, growing 60 per cent to fact, Hong Kong as a whole, with profits up aspiration and we are making good $1.3 billion, with profits up 71 per cent to 34 per cent to just under $1.2 billion, made progress on that journey.
India generated more profit more than the entire Group did in 2001. in 2007 than in 2006 and 2005 together.
Organic growth The individual business that contributed Our near-term priorities remain consistent.
It is not only our biggest businesses and Last year the first item on our management the biggest change in profits was markets that saw accelerated growth in 2007. agenda was Accelerating organic growth.
Wholesale Banking in India, where profits We achieved that with an increase of increased by 91 per cent to $626 million, We also saw the benefits from the underlying income growth from 18 per cent on an 82 per cent increase in income.
India investments made to build new engines to 23 per cent.
is Wholesale Bankings largest business.
Taiwan Setting the pace New York Well done Americas team!
I encouraged over 500 of our staff to I met all our staff in New York and took the be great ambassadors for the Group opportunity to congratulate everyone for their as we become a new force in Taiwans success in building our Americas business.
12 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23001 pp010-015 Q7.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 08:42 Page 13 In China, income was up 73 per cent to brand are proving enormously appealing 2008 Management Agenda $498 million.
About three quarters of to our customers.
income was generated by the Wholesale The acquisition of American Express Bank, Banking business.
We have been investing Sustain organic momentum announced in September, will turbo-charge significantly to build a business of scale the growth of our private banking business, Deliver growth from and breadth.
adding over $22 billion in AUM, new our acquisitions In 2007, we more than doubled the booking centres, investment products and capabilities and another 120 experienced number of permanent staff from 2,100 Continuously improve relationship managers.
to over 4,300 and our local network the way we work expanded from 21 to 38 locations.
Despite Korea, Pakistan and Taiwan investing over $60 million in the Consumer In 2008, delivering on our acquisitions Build leadership Banking business, profits from China will remain a top priority.
2007 was increased by 72 per cent in 2007 and are Reinforce the brand undoubtedly a challenging year for now in excess of some $180 million.
Whilst reported performance was adversely affected by Nigeria is another example.
It is a country a number of one-off items, we are still not with around six per cent GDP growth, satisfied with our performance, even after 140 million people and a rapidly growing adjusting for these effects.
Over the past three years we have invested in building a full range I have changed the management team in of products in both Consumer Banking Korea and we are now executing a range and Wholesale Banking.
of strategic initiatives to reshape the business to accelerate income growth, In 2007, we doubled the number of to improve productivity and to enhance branches to 12 and now employ about return on capital.
As a result of this investment, our income in Nigeria increased by over We are confident that SC First Bank is 62 per cent to over $140 million and profits fundamentally a great business and a large increased by 87 per cent.
In 2008, subject growth platform in a very big, growing to approval, we plan to double again the economy.
It will be a powerful engine of size of our branch network in Nigeria.
sustained profit growth for the Group.
Another new engine of organic growth is In Pakistan we have made rapid progress The Standard Chartered Private Bank.
with the integration of Union Bank.
Today Launched just nine months ago, the we are the sixth largest bank in the country Private Bank is making excellent progress.
in terms of profits with over 170 branches in With 11 offices across seven markets and 39 cities.
However, the political environment 118 relationship managers, the Private has had a negative impact, particularly on Bank has $10 billion of assets under loan impairment, and we enter 2008 with management AUM, of which 28 per cent a somewhat cautious stance.
is from 1,300 clients who are entirely new In Taiwan, we have made good progress to Standard Chartered.
since amalgamating the businesses in June.
We are on course to meet our Whilst it is still early days, we are already target of delivering double-digit return seeing that our unique combination of local on investment and earnings-per-share heritage and international capability, our accretion in 2008. ability to offer a broad range of onshore and offshore wealth products and our distinctive Hong Kong Keeping busy China Cultural highlights of the job My Hong Kong visit was the busiest Dotting the eye of the lion in Tianjin yet.
I shared the Groups priorities with as we celebrated the opening of our our staff and opened our newest first Shared Service Centre in China.
branch and Priority Banking Centre.
It was the cultural highlight of my trip.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 08:42 Page 14 Group Chief Executives Review continued A Brain, a securities services company Over the last few years we have built in Korea, which brings new capabilities and customers to our securities a track record of consistent delivery, of services business superior financial performance.
We are UTI Securities, an equity brokerage and advisory firm in India, which will enable us committed to build on that record.
to provide a broader range of wealth management products to our retail and private banking clients In January 2008, we also announced the acquisition of Yeahreum, a mutual savings bank in South Korea, which will enable us to broaden the current product offering.
The logic behind all these capability-driven acquisitions is to extend and deepen our Capability acquisitions This is a highly complex integration, product range and expertise, enabling us to While our acquisitions in Korea, Pakistan and spanning 47 countries and involving the serve our clients more effectively across a Taiwan were primarily about achieving critical integration of high-volume transaction broader range of needs.
They add fuel to mass and distribution in key geographies, systems, but the prize is also very our organic growth.
the rationale for the acquisition of American significant.
We anticipate that 2008 Express Bank was to reinforce our integration costs are likely to be around Sustainable business strategy $150 million, so the acquisition is likely capabilities and scale in two key businesses Building a sustainable business is an to be slightly dilutive this year, net of across the world: private banking and integral part of our long-term strategy underlying earnings and early synergies.
I have already outlined to enhance shareholder value.
At the benefits to private banking.
Standard Chartered, we are determined We remain confident that American Express to lead by example within the markets in In financial institutions, American Express Bank will increase earnings per share in which we operate.
As well as finding ways Bank will double the size of our US dollar 2009 and will deliver a double-digit return to drive economic growth, we also want to clearing business, give us direct yenand on investment.
This is a great deal, help protect the environment and to have a strategically compelling and financially euro-clearing capability, as well as a attractive.
We are bringing on board some positive impact on the societies where we sophisticated sales and service model.
highly talented international bankers and live and work.
American Express Bank will also extend there is a strong cultural fit.
our reach into a number of new countries.
We are constantly challenging ourselves on Following completion of the transaction, In the second half of 2007 we announced how we can contribute in a distinctive way Standard Chartered will be represented in four other capability-driven acquisitions, all in the countries where we operate.
much smaller than American Express Bank: example, at the Clinton Global Initiative in September, Standard Chartered committed We expect to complete this transaction Pembroke, a specialist in aviation finance, $8-10 billion financing over the next five shortly and look forward to welcoming which will reinforce our ability to play a years in renewable and clean energy American Express Banks 2,800 staff into part in the rapid growth of aviation across Standard Chartered.
Our detailed planning projects in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
our markets for the integration is going very well and has By making our commitment public, we confirmed our initial view of both the scale Harrison Lovegrove, an oil and gas hope to be a catalyst for change, influencing and cost of the integration task as well advisory boutique, which adds to our businesses to invest in the transition to a as the magnitude of the synergies.
existing strengths in the energy business low-carbon and more sustainable future.
India Helping communities grow South Korea At the World Knowledge Forum While in India I had the privilege to visit It was an honour to speak at the World Goal, our pilot for a womens empowerment Knowledge Forum in Seoul.
I spoke about initiative which uses sport to help women the drivers of change and Seouls future become leaders in their communities.
14 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23001 pp010-015 Q7.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 08:42 Page 15 The year ahead We will not stop investing given the In the year ahead we will stick to our opportunities we are seeing in our strategy.
We will continue to focus on markets.
But we will remain vigilant in our deepening our relationships with our clients.
management of risk, and we will continue to And we will continue to be proactive and flex the pace of investment to ensure costs disciplined in managing our liquidity, our grow broadly in line with income growth.
capital, our risk profile and our costs.
2007 was a year of strong performance, a We will keep investing to sustain our year of delivery despite the external turmoil.
In China, for We enter 2008 amid almost unprecedented example, subject to regulatory approval, we market volatility and uncertainty, but in great anticipate having at least 60 locations by shape and with great momentum.
This year we celebrate Summary 150 years of being in China and India: we 2007 was a great year for the Group.
We have deep roots in these markets and they were not unscathed by the financial crisis, are a huge part of our future.
but we delivered record results.
I thank all We will deliver on our acquisitions: make our customers and shareholders for their progress in Korea: deliver earnings-persupport and the Groups staff for playing share growth from Taiwan: and complete their part in our growth story in 2007. the American Express Bank transaction Standard Chartered has never been in and drive its integration.
Outlook We ended 2007 with strong momentum in both businesses and the Group has had an excellent start to 2008, particularly in Peter Sands, Wholesale Banking which had a record Group Chief Executive January.
The Bank is in great shape.
The 26 February 2008 foundations are firm.
We are extraordinarily well-placed to capture the huge opportunities in our markets.
There is more breadth and scale in the Group and our strong performance in 2007 is well spread across multiple products and multiple geographies.
The level of risk and uncertainty in the external environment makes the horizon more difficult to read.
However, we know what our shareholders expect us to deliver: double-digit income growth, double-digit earnings growth and mid-to-high-teens return on equity ROE.
Over the last few years we have been building a track record of consistent delivery of superior financial performance.
We are committed to keep building on that track record.
UK My volunteering day Singapore Business Leadership Team meeting Volunteering is a hugely rewarding way to My message to all 450 attending managers was support our community.
I volunteered at that we can deliver our dream if we work together Terrence Higgins Trust, a leading HIV AIDS as a team and be courageous, creative, daring charity in the UK, and encourage staff to and disciplined.
volunteer their time for the community.
