Overview SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 08 Chief Executives review We are pleased to report a good set of results and strong SVG Capital has a strong balance sheet, with substantial performance from both SVG Capital and from our fund financial resources in place.
The Company is well positioned management business, SVG Advisers.
to meet its uncalled commitments of 1.6 billion, which we expect to be drawn down over the next four to five years.
We believe the current portfolio is well positioned to provide shareholders with substantial returns over the medium to long-term.
The portfolio is relatively immature, but it is well Borrowings diversified by industry sector and geography.
As is normal at The Company issued approximately US$300.0 million this point of SVG Capitals investment cycle, new investments equivalent of long-term debt through a Private Placement from recent commitments dominate the portfolio and the of Notes taking SVG Capitals total fixed borrowings to portfolio is fairly concentrated with the 10 largest investments approximately 258.1 million.
In addition, the Company representing 64% of the portfolio.
As Permira IV becomes increased its bank lines from F600.0 million to F750.0 million more fully invested and matures, the portfolio will become 550.9 million during the course of the year.
less focused on a small number of large investments.
SVG Advisers Cash balances and uncalled commitments The fund management business, SVG Advisers, has reported The portfolio was again very cash-generative with another strong year of growth and the Directors have placed 3 312.4 million of distributions during the year.
We have paid an unaudited valuation on the business of 106.4 million 581.7 million of calls in the year, mainly to fund Permira IV 71.8p per share.
which is still in the early stages of its investment programme Third-party funds under management increased by 33% and thus has been drawing down funds relatively quickly.
4 to F4.4 billion over the year and the business reported profit As a result, SVG Capital ended the year with gross cash before tax of 17.6 million, an 89% increase on 2006. balances of 183.5 million, taking the Group to a leveraged External income from investment advisory services increased position of 34.7 million, or 2.7% of Shareholders funds.
46% to 29.7 million and including fees paid by SVG Capital Since the year end, the Company has received distributions and other income, total revenue was 37.1 million.
totalling 66.0 million with a further 18.1 million expected prior to the end of April 2008.
In addition, the Company has also received proceeds of 40.0 million in January 2008 from the Private Placement of Notes.
Against this, we are anticipating calls of approximately 165.0 million to fund investments already announced in 2007 and we should move to a slightly more leveraged position by the end of April 2008.
Funds and commitments under management 1 billion 2007 4.4 2006 3.3 2005 1.8 2004 1.3 2003 0.6 2002 0.2 33% Growth in funds and commitments under management during the year 46%to29.7m Growth in external fee income during the year 3 Including income of 17.1 million 4 Including SVG Capitals commitments to SVG Advisers funds SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 09 As reported at the half-year, the biggest contributor to the Outlook increase in funds under management was the successful The majority of companies in the portfolio continue to perform closing of our third structured private equity fund of funds, in line with expectations and we believe the portfolio is well SVG Diamond III, raising F700 million.
In addition to this, positioned to weather market conditions.
Clearly, any material the Schroder Private Equity Fund of Funds IV has raised change in the economic environment could impact the 5 F339 million to date, with a final close expected before the short-term performance of the portfolio companies, and end of the first quarter, and F96 million was also raised for investing with top-performing private equity firms will become the Strategic Recovery Fund II.
Since the year end, we have even more crucial.
The managers that SVG Capital has invested held a successful first close at US$104 million of our first with, in particular Permira, have over 20 years of experience Asian fund of funds.
The fund is targeting a final close at in creating value for investors through varying financial and US$150 million before the end of the first half.
In order to economic environments.
We have confidence in their criteria support the growth of our Asian business, both in terms of for investment and their ability to drive growth and harness fund selection and investor base, we will be opening an value in companies, creating superior returns for investors office in Singapore in the second half of this year.
and outperforming public markets over the longer term.
SVG Advisers now employs almost 70 people and with the On the investment front, the overhang of unsyndicated opening of our Asian office will have a presence in Europe, leveraged buy-out debt remains high.
Until this debt is North America and Asia.
We will continue to invest in syndicated, buy-out activity is unlikely to pick up significantly, building up the SVG Advisers team and the firms infrastructure especially at the larger end of the market.
The hiatus in debt so we will be well positioned to take advantage of changes financing has resulted in a softening of leverage multiples on in the private equity market over the next three to five years.
those transactions that have been agreed since the summer.
The dramatic shift in sentiment and confidence within This softening will affect pricing of new deals and will present markets in the second half of 2007 has had a major impact attractive buying opportunities.
On the exit front, we expect on both the debt and equity capital markets.
This presents the rate of realisations to slow and holding periods to lengthen.
both a challenge and opportunity for SVG Advisers.
We have already taken steps to expand the firms geographic reach and will be looking at diversifying the current product offering to capitalise on opportunities and to create new investment vehicles in our areas of expertise.
We believe the current portfolio is well positioned to provide shareholders with substantial returns over the medium to long term.
Andrew Williams Chief Executive SVG Advisers Limited 6 March 2008 5 As at 1 March 2008
