4 Chief Executives Review Revenue up 31.0% This has been another successful year for Carphone To become the leading alternative provider of xed m Warehouse, but we faced significant challenges line telecommunications services in the UK.
Group revenues are up 31.0%, we 3,991 Through organic growth and acquisition, we have built have executed very well in our Retail business and up a unique set of assets: a network of stores that act 3,046 increased our market share, and we have made as the focal point of our interaction with customers, 2,355 significant progress towards our goal of becoming both mobile and xed line: a comprehensive xed line 1,849 the leading alternative fixed line telecoms provider telecoms network covering the whole of the UK, with in the UK.
The launch of Free Broadband changed investment focused on areas of added value: and the face of the UK broadband market forever, but significant customer bases, creating valuable annuity 04 05 06 07 created its own problems: the unexpected level revenue streams to improve the quality of our of demand, combined with the complexity of the earnings.
Our strategic objectives aim to leverage provisioning processes, led to significant customer these assets to deliver long-term growth and value Headline operating profit service issues.
up 5.4% m Last year I underlined our private company approach Growing our retail presence 149.5 141.8 to investment and growth opportunities.
While every There are two key factors supporting our strategy to project needs to be nancially justied and we have grow our retail presence.
Firstly, we believe that we 105.2 rigorous hurdle rates for new investment, we tend to are under-penetrated in almost all of our geographical 81.1 take the long view.
As a result, earnings in the short markets, and the dynamics of the industry continue to term can be depressed by our pursuit of long-term be attractive.
Secondly, as our market share increases, value creation.
In such circumstances it is our our scale delivers operational benets through responsibility to communicate the scale, timing and 04 05 06 07 improving terms with network operators and handset impact of new business initiatives so that investors manufacturers alike.
Our model of reinvesting these can make informed decisions.
benets into the customer proposition, through better pricing and improved range and availability of This has never been more true than in the past handsets, serves both to defend our market position 12 months.
We have incurred start-up losses of over by raising the barriers to entry, and to deliver 80m in our launch of Free Broadband and Virgin incremental growth and scale.
Our total cash commitment in the year to these new initiatives, and the acquisition of AOLs UK customer base, has been nearly 400m.
As we manage The key drivers of the the path to profitability and cash generation in these Distribution division network businesses, we are already committing to a further exciting growth project, with the roll-out of our retail joint appetite for customers, a venture in the US and Geek Squad in the UK.
No doubt vibrant handset market, and further opportunities will arise, and we will continue to pursue them with commitment and conviction.
our own physical expansion Strategic context all remain firmly in place Our strategic approach is built on three primary objectives: This year we have opened 366 net new stores across To continue to grow market share in all our our ten markets, taking the total portfolio to 2,144.
Over geographical markets, by investing in new store the last three years we have opened 930 stores and openings, achieving increasing productivity from grown the estate by 76.6%.
During the same period, our existing estate, and developing additional connections are up 87.2%, demonstrating our ability distribution channels: to generate continued growth out of existing sites.
To maximise the lifetime value of our customers, both We generated retail like-for-like gross profit growth by providing a level of service that encourages repeat of 5.0% during the period, as the handset market business, and by identifying relevant new products showed further growth, and we took market share and services where our brand, service and through our focus on the widest range of handsets distribution give us an edge over other suppliers: and and the best availability on the high street.
After last 7 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200 Highlights and Strategy Business Review Governance Financial Statements 5 Looking forward, we plan to marry physical expansion with an increased focus on productivity from our existing estate KEY TARGETS years success with the exclusive pink Motorola V3, allowing seamless connectivity across multiple this was a particularly creditable performance achieved platforms and locations.
They want their computer to across a range of unique handsets rather than from a talk to their television, and to be able to control both single blockbuster product.
from their mobile device while away from home.
We sell most of the nuts and bolts today mobile During the year we entered our first new market for 10% contracts, high-speed data cards, broadband, handover seven years through our link-up in the US with market share of held e-mail devices: some of these are our own Best Buy.
After a successful trial we are excited about mobile phone market products, most of them are third party.
Our job will be the rapid roll-out plans and the opportunity to to set our customers up with the most appropriate introduce US consumers to the independent mobile suite of services and make sure that it all works.
Best Buy is the ideal partner and the stores, as ever, will be the primary point of distribution, relationship between us is highly complementary.
3.5m but Geek Squad will become an integral part of our Broadband customers Looking forward, we plan to marry physical expansion overall value proposition.
by March 2010 with an increased focus on productivity from our Geek Squad, launched with our partners Best Buy, is existing estate.
Excluding the US, we see opportunities a home technology troubleshooting service, developed to open a further 200-250 stores a year for the next to address the increasing technological complexity of three years.
Just as importantly, we are revisiting 1m peoples lives.
It will allow us to add significant value existing sites and assessing the need for additional Virgin Mobile France to customers by making technology work for them, headcount and points of sale as we seek to convert customers by March 2009 and to our network partners by tying their individual more of our footfall into business.
We also have the products and services into a unied package.
opportunity to re-site stores in many major centres where we have outgrown our current footprint.
To support the broadening of our proposition, which will include the sale of an increasing range Maximising customer lifetime value of non-cellular communications products, we are We have been focused on maximising customer embarking on a programme of rets and relocations lifetime value for almost as long as Carphone across a range of our larger stores in prime locations.
Generating enhanced We will update investors with progress as our new value for our network partners and loyalty from our strategy evolves.
customers comes not just from providing high quality consultancy at the point of sale, but supporting Becoming the leading alternative fixed line provider customers through the product life-cycle.
in the UK Nearly five years ago, when we acquired Opal Telecom Over the years we have been very successful at in November 2002, we set ourselves the ambitious goal introducing new services into our retail offering, with of becoming the number one alternative xed line our Insurance and Fixed Line services being the telecoms provider in the UK.
We believed that the most obvious and successful.
However, the quality combination of high consumer prices, a high incumbent of our customer interaction is often demonstrated market share, meaningful regulatory change and our in less quantiable ways for example, through our own unique distribution network was a powerful one: investment in new store formats or our commitment the network infrastructure and telco know-how we to live product demonstrations.
What all of these acquired with Opal completed the jigsaw.
developments have in common, though, is that they meet the changing needs of the marketplace and Today, through a combination of strong organic growth reect Carphone Warehouses ongoing ability to renew and judicious acquisitions, we have over 10% of the its business model in response to the prevailing residential telephony market and approximately 16% opportunities and risks.
After the very significant strides we have made this year, our bold objective Today, as wireless technologies become more is now clearly within reach.
pervasive and our customers increasingly want more from us than choice, availability and advice on During the year we made three notable steps forward a simple mobile contract, we are beginning to adapt and one step back.
We announced in November 2005 our proposition once more.
Customers and our our plans to invest in local loop unbundling LLU network partners will want integrated solutions, a process in which we install our own exchange www.
com 6 Chief Executives Review continued Contribution from recurring equipment within BTs exchange network, enabling in improving the provisioning process and providing revenues up 28.9% us to take control of the copper wire or local loop high quality support, and are confident that as the m that connects customers houses with their local new financial year progresses, we will begin to make 275.1 exchange.
OFCOM, the UK telecoms regulator, had customer service a positive differentiator for the 213.5 just nalised its market review, which nally gave TalkTalk brand.
161.2 visibility and certainty to LLU.
Its attractions for a Outlook 121.4 telecoms service provider are that it allows us to The outlook for the Group remains positive.
The key provide calls, line rental and broadband services drivers of the Distribution division network appetite to our customers at a much lower cost price than for customers, a vibrant handset market, and our own 04 05 06 07 BTs wholesale product suite.
physical expansion all remain rmly in place.
As our In April 2006 we announced a revolutionary new strategy evolves, we believe that our opportunities for service, TalkTalk Free Broadband, giving free growth in the medium term are increasing, both % of contribution from broadband connectivity to customers who sign up through the development of our wireless solutions recurring revenues for our calls and line rental package.
At the same time, model, and through the Geek Squad and Best Buy % of total 62.2 59.4 59.7 we announced a rapid acceleration of our LLU roll-out, Mobile ventures.
Our ability to achieve continued 57.6 aiming to unbundle 1,000 exchanges over the following growth in sales and profitability stems in no small part 14 months.
Demand for the new proposition has been from our historical success in adapting the business exceptional, and by March 2007 we had signed up model to address the opportunities and challenges of 655,000 live customers.
In addition, our engineers at a dynamic market.
Carphone Warehouse Networks, the re-branded Opal Physical expansion and market share gains remain at network team, completed all of our planned equipment 04 05 06 07 the heart of our strategy, and we plan to open a installation well ahead of schedule, with 1,024 further 250 stores this year, in addition to the US rollexchanges live by the end of the financial year.
Our market share in continental Europe still lags our UK share, which itself continues to grow: there is no structural reason why, in time, our market shares The launch of Free Broadband across most of our European markets cannot reach changed the face of the UK the 20% level.
broadband market forever We are targeting 15% growth in subscription connections, a little ahead of our planned space growth, as we anticipate further growth in this higher Broadband via LLU is a scale game, with unit costs value part of the market and invest in improved store falling with every additional customer connected to productivity.
The pre-pay market is quieter, after an unbundled exchange.
As a result, we were 18 months of very significant growth, and we expect delighted to acquire the customer base of AOL in this to be reected in our own pre-pay connections the UK in December 2006.
This immediately took growth during the year.
We expect gross profit per our market share to around 16%, and gives us the connection, an important KPI for the business, on both scale we need to ensure a significant payback on subscription and pre-pay to be stable year-on-year.
In addition, we now Our Ongoing and Insurance revenue streams, key operate with two differentiated brands, allowing us components of customer lifetime value driven by to address two distinct and valuable segments of subscription connections, are set to rise in line with the broadband marketplace.
Progress in our Mobile The one at note to our broadband launch has been businesses will be steady, as our German service the impact on customer service levels resulting from provision business continues to increase customer the very strong demand we generated.
For much of numbers, revenues and profits, and our MVNO the year we were slow to answer calls in our contact operations across Europe start to come out of centres and failed to resolve enough of our customers their launch phases.
This inevitably led to In our UK Fixed Line operations, our broadband and a poor customer experience and our fair share of unbundling strategy will begin to bear fruit, as margins negative publicity.
We continue to invest substantially 7 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200 Highlights and Strategy Business Review Governance Financial Statements 7 GLOSSARY improve dramatically with the migration of customers to our own network and the integration of the AOL Average revenue per user: applies to both ARPU customer base.
Meanwhile, we will continue to invest mobile and xed line customers.
Usually in expanding and deepening our network and growing quoted as a monthly gure.
the customer base towards our target of 3.5m broadband customers by March 2010.
We are absolutely focused on improving operational execution Carrier Pre Selection: the platform on which CPS and customer service and while we are encouraged TalkTalk has grown to date, whereby calls are by the progress we are making in these areas, there switched from BT onto an alternate service is much more we can and will do.
providers network at the local exchange level.
Launching Free Broadband has been the hardest thing Ive ever done in business, and its been hard for all of Internet Service Provider: company providing ISP our employees in the stores, in the contact centres internet access.
and in management and support functions.
All of us share one goal to service all our customers properly Local Loop Unbundling: process that allows other and make TalkTalk a business we can be proud of, LLU operators access to BTs local loop, by installing with a reputation for quality and service that The equipment in BTs exchanges and physically Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House already moving over a customers line.
Once again I would like to thank everyone across the whole Group for their continued efforts.
The copper wire that connects houses to the Local loop BT local exchange network.
The process of moving a customer from BTs Migration Charles Dunstone, wholesale products onto our own unbundled lines.
Chief Executive officer Mobile Virtual Network Operator: a mobile service MVNO provider with no network infrastructure of its own, that piggybacks off a network operator at a  wholesale rate.
The UK regulatory body for the telecoms and OFCOM media industries.
The access services division of BT, responsible Openreach for delivering equivalence of service on a range of access products.
The result of the regulatory settlement between BT and OFCOM.
com P R O E P L O A S C I S T I O N 8 7 Our Strategy 200 Performance Update OUR VIRTUOUS CIRCLE OF PERFORMANCE OUR OPERATIONS WHAT WE SAID WED DO IN 2006 07 Open a further 250 new stores Retail and Online Differentiate proposition through handset range Continue to drive growth in subscription connections Continue to explore non-UK Online opportunities Further base growth Insurance Improve penetration with new products Revenue growth of 15-20% Ongoing OUR OPERATIONS WHAT WE SAID WED DO IN 2006 07 Further growth in Mobile subscription base Service Provision Stabilisation of ARPU trend through focus on higher quality channels Launch Mobile World in Mobile other markets Other Operations Rene Fresh proposition to maximise customer Investment lifetime values Our long-term approach to investment creates sustainable competitive Build towards target of 1m advantage in our chosen markets.
Investment is not just about Virgin Mobile customers capex although our commitment to store openings and exchange within 3 years unbundling is significant it is also about marketing, brand-building and customer recruitment.
Focus on local loop unbundling Fixed programme to hit target of Business Scale 1,000 exchanges by May 2007 We aim to be a mass market provider in our major business lines by Leverage LLU platform to build driving for volume ahead of margin.
We then use our increased corporate broadband products presence in the market to improve our supplier terms and reinvest Build on initial TalkTalk these benets in the customer proposition.
Business success Efficiency Focus on rapid recruitment of Fixed Scale also creates significant efficiencies for our business, through broadband customers Residential leveraging our xed cost store base and telecoms infrastructure.
We Manage the successful seek to maintain our competitive advantage by continued investment migration of customers onto across the business.
unbundled lines Complete integration of Proposition Onetel acquisition We are absolutely committed to delivering value to customers across all our services.
Investment in the right platforms is key to our ability to Raise line rental penetration on develop a compelling customer proposition, as it allows us to build voice customer base to 60% scale, and offer greater value and an improved customer experience.
7 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200 T E N F E F I M C T I S E E N V C N Y I Telecoms Services division Distribution division Highlights and Strategy Business Review Governance Financial Statements 9 For regular updates on our performance visit us at www.
com HOW WE PERFORMED OUR 2007 08 OBJECTIVES 366 new stores opened Open a further 250 new stores 150 stores refurbished Develop new format wireless solutions stores Subscription connections up 17.3% Continue to expand our presence in the US market through Best Buy Mobile Increasing range of exclusive products Roll out Geek Squad across the UK Customer base up 16.2% Revenue growth of 15% High tier base up 18.6% Ongoing revenue up 22.7% Revenue growth of 15% HOW WE PERFORMED OUR 2007 08 OBJECTIVES Customer base grew 28.3% to 1.50m Continued steady growth in revenue, profitability and customers Some stabilisation of ARPU during the year UK MVNO business moving into profitability Continue to build the Virgin Mobile France brand and customer base Virgin Mobile France well on course for 3 year target Launch contract MVNO in the UK Launch of MVNOs in Spain, Portugal, Switzerland and Belgium Invest in building non-UK MVNO operations Reached exchange target by March 2007, two months Build out exchange network to 1,650 TalkTalk and ahead of schedule 900 AOL exchanges Acquisition of Alto Hiway, B2B ISP, to support development Begin process of unifying network infrastructure to of corporate broadband services a single technological platform 2.3m UK customers 16% market share through organic Complete integration of AOL growth and the AOL acquisition Invest in improved customer service Delays in migration process but over 30% of total base unbundled 70% of base migrated to LLU by March 2008 by year end Poor customer service had a negative impact on brand perception Onetel integration successful and voice base delivering strong profitability www.
