Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chief Executives Delivering our strategy Review 2007 was a year of substantial achievement for Centrica during which we made further progress on addressing the key priorities for the business.
Centrica delivered a very strong set of financial results during 9,000 engineers.
British Gas is the countrys best-recognised this, my first full year as Chief Executive.
We moved the structure energy brand.
It is also one of the greenest, according to WWF and operational performance of the business forwards, but we and has the lowest carbon intensity of all major suppliers.
We are still have some way to go.
one of the UKs largest producers and suppliers of wind energy and in April we set up British Gas New Energy to expand our offer in 2007 was a year of two very different halves.
In the first half, low-carbon products and services.
wholesale energy prices in the UK were low as a result of increased supply through new gas pipelines and liquefied natural gas In our North American markets, we had over 5 million customers LNG facilities and reduced demand due to warm weather.
The combined volume of demand for our Over two-thirds of our earnings were delivered in this period.
gas in Canada, the US and Europe will help us to do deals with large-scale suppliers of LNG worldwide.
During the second six months, the day ahead wholesale gas price was, on average, 56% higher than during the first half.
This Our experience of deregulated markets in the UK and North America significantly reduced margins in our UK residential business.
And, will also stand us in good stead when European energy markets unfortunately, these relatively high wholesale prices have persisted finally open up to competition.
The European Commission published in the first few months of 2008, necessitating a retail price increase.
proposals in September for the unbundling of electricity and gas generation and transmission networks across the European Union.
Centrica operates in a complex, global and constantly changing When implemented, these should increase competition in Europe.
industry that is facing some profound long-term challenges.
But it hasnt happened yet.
Environmental issues will increasingly influence the shape of the industry.
Tougher targets on reducing energy consumption and Upstream cutting greenhouse gases are likely to be implemented worldwide, Upstream, we have a strong and increasingly diverse portfolio of and these will push up the price of energy.
long-term contracts for gas supplies to the UK from the North Sea, Norway and the Netherlands, as well as our own production.
The cost of developing new upstream resources in the UK has These include our Morecambe gas fields, and interests in over risen by 80% since 2000, and growth in demand for fossil fuels 20 southern North Sea gas fields, including those acquired from from countries such as China and India is also driving a long-term Newfield UK Holdings Limited in October.
structural movement towards higher prices.
We estimate that by 2015 around 75% of the UKs total annual gas demand From October 2008, we will have LNG import capacity at the could be being met by imports, compared to about 20% in 2007.
Isle of Grain which will be able to supply about 6% of Centricas Increasing reliance on imports means that the UK, and Centrica, annual gas demand.
We are building our eighth gas-fired power station will not be cushioned from the impact of global market movements, in Devon and two wind farms off the Lincolnshire coast which will either in terms of price fluctuation or security of supply.
We have interests in three operational wind farms which provide access to188MW of renewable Against this background, our strategy is to create an integrated electricity and we are seeking consent for a further 250MW farm.
energy company, operating upstream by developing new sources of gas and power, and downstream with our strong brands and Internationally, offices are now established in Nigeria and Norway innovative propositions, to succeed in our chosen markets.
following the award of exploration and production licence blocks.
In 2007 we also acquired further exploration blocks in Norway and Downstream Trinidad.
Direct Energy bid for Rockyview Energy Inc, an AlbertaThe UK gas market is the biggest in Europe.
We are the largest based oil and gas company, completing the deal in early 2008. energy supplier in the UK and at the end of 2007 British Gas Residential once again supplied 16 million customers.
British Gas Centrica has four strategic priorities that underpin how we run the Services is the largest central heating and gas appliance installation business.
Over the next four pages I will explain what these mean and maintenance company in the UK, directly employing more than and how we have performed against them this year.
carbon intensity is the amount of carbon dioxide emitted per unit of electricity produced 08 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Transform British Gas 3 We led the industry in reducing prices in 2007 3 We significantly improved our service levels 3 We reduced our operating costs by 139 million Transforming British Gas is a priority because profitability and service levels at British Gas Residential, which is the core Lower prices and better service of our business, have historically been low and variable.
led to an increase in the number The transformation aims to: of customers.
This, combined with 3 improve our price competitiveness, service levels and product a fall in commodity prices in the offer in order to reverse the decline in customer numbers: first six months, meant we delivered 3 reduce our costs through best-in-class efficiency and productivity while ensuring that we remain a great place to work: an excellent financial result.
and 3 achieve long-term margins of 6-7%.
Progress We led the industry in reducing prices, cutting them twice during 2007.
In March and April our tariffs were cut by a total of 17% in electricity and by 20% in gas.
We also provided the lowest dual fuel tariff through our online Click Energy offer.
However, because of sharply rising wholesale energy prices during the second half of 2007 and continuing into 2008, we were left with no alternative but to increase retail tariffs in January 2008.
Although this was disappointing, retail British Gas Residential prices were still lower when compared to January 2007.
The15% increase will help us to re-establish the profit margin we need to customer accounts invest in the core energy assets that will provide sustainable long-term earnings.
Having completed the migration of all our customers to our new billing system by March, we concentrated on improving the service that had suffered during the migration process.
For example, our speed to answer the telephone improved by almost 75% from the highest point in April and we eliminated the entire correspondence backlog.
British Gas Residential customer accounts in 2007 m As a result, we saw fewer complaints and customer losses.
By December 2007, complaints to energywatch had fallen by 80% since April and contacts to energywatch are now at their lowest 16.1 level since January 2006 when we began to move our customers to a new billing system.
Customer churn has also fallen sharply, and the 16.0 number of energy accounts grew by around15,000 during the year.
15.9 We continued to reduce operating costs within British Gas compared to 2006.
This, combined with a fall in commodity prices in the 15.8 first six months, meant we delivered an excellent operating profit for the year.
15.7 including joint ventures and associates stated net of interest and taxation, Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements 09 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chief Executives Delivering our strategy Review continued Sharpen the organisation and reduce costs 3 We have strengthened our executive team 3 We have introduced new structures for our businesses in Direct Energy and in British Gas Residential 3 We have reduced costs across the Group If we are to compete domestically and internationally in the long term, we need to do what we do better, and at lower cost.
Changes to the organisation of the Group have improved We need to upgrade our skills, increase our business discipline and accountability, and materially reduce costs in each business unit accountability and increased and at the centre.
Progress Over the past year we have strengthened our executive team with several key appointments, including a new Group Finance Director and a new Managing Director for British Gas, and we have transferred responsibility for our European businesses to the Managing Director of Centrica Energy.
We have also focused on the structure of our operating businesses.
Recent initiatives include the separation of power generation in Centrica Energy to form a line of accountability for our UK power segment.
In North America we introduced a new structure with the creation of four business units on functional rather than geographic lines.
cost savings achieved We have also created three separate profit centres within British Gas in BGR in 2007 Residential BGR to better reflect different customer groups.
The new units have different objectives and propositions, and a management structure designed to enhance accountability.
Business discipline has been improved through the introduction of systematic quarterly cost reviews of each business unit, a tighter capital allocation framework, and a new three-year planning horizon to focus performance.
And we have reduced costs significantly.
For example, the British Gas Residential restructuring of British Gas Services has removed 20 million operating expenditure m of cost a year, and BGR is on track to deliver its 200 million cost 1,000 reduction target.
Some 139 million of cost savings were achieved 939 862 in BGR in 2007 with the balance to be achieved in 2008.
During the 800 year we moved 2,250 back-office jobs to India and rationalised the corporate centre.
This included outsourcing a number of support services including many of the central finance, information system and human resource functions.
04 05 06 07 10 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Reduce risk through integration 3 We bought Newfield UK Holdings Limited 3 We acquired exploration opportunities in the UK, Norway and Trinidad 3 We continued to invest in renewable generation capacity 3 We are building a new gas-fired power station in Devon We want to produce more of the energy that we sell.
In the UK we are able to supply around 25% of our gas requirements and around We made some important progress 67% of our peak electricity requirements from our own resources or during the year, though not as major contracts.
The remainder has to be purchased in notoriously volatile wholesale markets.
We aim to build a profitable UK upstream business to be able to supply 50% of our gas needs.
Our target is to have 35% of our retail load supplied from production capacity we own, and 15% from new long-term contracts.
Progress In October 2007 we bought Newfield UK Holdings Limited for 242 million.
This brought us a producing gas field, two development prospects and interests in six licences with the potential to add around 300 billion cubic feet bcf of gas reserves in the North Sea.
The location of the fields also offers synergies with our retail businesses in western Europe, with gas from one of the fields delivered in the Netherlands.
We added a further 43bcf of gas reserves by acquiring Rockyview Energy Inc in Alberta, planned annual upstream announced in November and completed in February 2008. investment 2007 to 2010 We also acquired interests in licences in Norway and Trinidad bringing our total at the end of the year to19.
From the winter of 2010 11, we will have access to a further 2.4 billion cubic metres BCM of LNG import capacity at the Isle of Grain terminal in addition to the 3.4BCM we have available from October 2008.
Construction continues on our 885MW power station at Langage in Devon which will increase our UK generation capacity to over 5GW.
It will come online early in 2009.
We have also continued to invest in wind generation capacity.
We acquired a 50% share in Centricas UK electricity generation MW the Braes of Doune wind farm in Stirlingshire in July and concluded a new170MW power purchase agreement in Texas that brings to 813MW our total power offtake from Texas wind farms.
Construction 5,000 work started on the180MW Lynn and Inner Dowsing farms off the coast of Lincolnshire.
Lynn and Inner Dowsing is currently the 4,000 worlds largest offshore wind construction project and first power is due towards the end of 2008.
3,000 Overall we have 430MW of offshore wind projects in construction 2,000 or early planning stages, which will keep us at the forefront of renewable generation.
1,000 0 Jan 01 Dec 07 11 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chief Executives Delivering our strategy Review continued Build on our growth platforms 3 We increased profits considerably in all growth businesses 3 We strengthened our positions in North America and Europe 3 We launched British Gas New Energy to focus on low-carbon products and services Centricas growth businesses in the UK, North America and Europe have considerable potential for increasing the Groups We intend to grow businesses profitability, and they made strong progress during 2007.
In addition, organically and through acquisition, we are focusing on new opportunities to provide low-carbon products and services to customers concerned about climate change.
driving top and bottom line growth.
Progress British Gas Business delivered record profitability, a growing customer base and improving levels of customer satisfaction: while in British Gas Services, account numbers grew by 7% and operating profits by 48% as service levels improved dramatically.
We continued to strengthen our Direct Energy business in North America, which was restructured, delivering the targeted cost reductions.
It also grew its operating profit by more than 15% before exchange rate movements, despite increased competitive pressures and a weaker US housing market that affected the residential and services businesses.
We improved the balance of the business too, with one of its four sectors moving into profit for the first time and another doubling its contribution.
new customer product holdings Ahead of the European Union becoming a fully competitive in British Gas Services energy market, we are aiming to build a gas and power business in north western Europe.
In 2007, our operating profits in Europe more than doubled, we established SPE-Luminus as the undisputed number two player in Belgium in the electricity and gas market, and we added 500,000 customer accounts in the newly liberalised Walloon part of the market.
In April we created a new business unit, British Gas New Energy Operating profit m BGNE.
British Gas is already a noted force in the supply of green electricity and appliances in the UK.
BGNE is therefore well placed 187 to operate successfully in the low-carbon market that is expected 173 to grow exponentially in the coming years.
151 120 In a related move in North America, we formed a new group in 102 the upstream and wholesale energy business to focus solely on 87 carbon and renewables.
Direct Energy also launched its first carbon neutral product as part of its successful market entry into British Columbia.
This has since been extended across Canada.
06 07 06 07 06 07 from continuing operations British Gas British Gas Direct Energy including joint ventures and associates stated net of interest and taxation, Business Services excluding Income Fund and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements 12 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British Gas Services is developing additional customer propositions During 2008, we will continue to focus our efforts on the four to make more rapid progress in the on-demand markets.
Improving priorities that I set in 2007. the links between British Gas Residential, British Gas Services and BGNE will enable us to make better use of our assets and to develop Transforming British Gas new revenue by offering customers more cross-business packages.
Our critical short-term priority will be continued focus on our service to customers while delivering sustainable returns.
Longer term, BGNE will become increasingly important in 2008 with growing we believe that for all energy suppliers to substantially improve customer concern about energy efficiency and the positive effect customer service will require a nationwide investment in smart that this can have on climate change.
In January we announced metering technology.
a stronger contractual relationship with Ceres Power on the development of a domestic combined heat and power boiler using We will remove an additional 60 million of operating cost and will ground-breaking fuel cell technology, supported by a 20 million invest in the British Gas brand to rebuild its relevance to consumers equity investment.
We will seek to identify more ways of facilitating not only as a provider of energy but of energy efficiency advice the move towards a low-carbon society while keeping the British and services.
Gas name at the forefront.
Cutting costs In North America there is real potential to grow our business both We are making cost reduction central to our business culture.
organically and through acquisition in our existing markets and geographies.
Short-term prospects will be affected by the depth We will continue to identify and re-engineer outdated processes and length of any economic downturn but we will seek to minimise and procedures with the aim of becoming the most efficient energy the impact through the increasing diversity of our business streams.
supplier with the lowest cost per customer.
Developing our businesses in Europe remains challenging.
This We will also introduce new trading and logistic systems into year we will concentrate on simplifying the ownership structure of Centrica Energy to better support our asset portfolio and SPE in Belgium as the merger of Suez and Gaz fide France proceeds.
downstream businesses, phased over 2008 and 2009.
We will also continue to grow our Belgian, Dutch and Spanish businesses, and to establish ourselves firmly in the industrial and Strengthening our asset base With wholesale energy costs still volatile, the importance of commercial market in Germany.
getting more of our gas and power from our own resources cannot be overestimated.
Our acquisition of the Newfield gas properties In summary, we will be following the same path in 2008 as we and the investments we are making in both renewables and gashave in 2007, guided by the same priorities that we have laid down.
fired power generation are important steps in the right direction but The UK market faces high wholesale energy prices which appear we need to do more.
This will be a key strategic priority in 2008. to be taking their lead from the oil-linked gas markets of continental Europe and our other markets are feeling the effects of weakening We will need to continue pursuing power generation and gas asset economic conditions.
In this environment it is important that opportunities both in the UK and internationally.
But we will also we remain single-minded in making our operations leaner and assess opportunities in gas storage and develop our gas exploration more efficient to give us the best chance of success in the UK prospects in the UK, Norway, Nigeria and Trinidad.
We will increase our involvement in LNG, where our aim is to become Centrica is a strong business with a clear sense of direction and the the downstream partner of choice for the oil companies who own the momentum to make the best of its unique strengths.
I am confident rights to the vast majority of the worlds undeveloped gas resources.
that we will be able to take significant strides in 2008.
Longer term we will also evaluate carefully the opportunity to participate in the replacement of the UKs fleet of nuclear power stations.
Looking to grow Our growth businesses are contributing well to the Group, but there are opportunities for them to do even better, and we will continue Sam Laidlaw to drive both top and bottom line improvement in these areas.
Chief Executive 21 February 2008 In the UK, in British Gas Business we will seek to maintain our current growth trajectory through ongoing development of our routes to market while focusing also on further enhancing the service we deliver.
