INTRODUCTION ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 05 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Challenging our cost structure to make We remain focused on leveraging the full room for further investment in R&D and potential of our range and delivered a growth externalisation, whilst increasing access in sales during 2007 despite pricing challenges to our medicines.
in key markets in Europe and the US, where payers and healthcare providers have been Promoting a culture of responsibility and wrestling with the dual challenge of a growing accountability is a fourth priority that demand for healthcare as a result of the underpins the other three.
ageing population and continued public demand for the benefits that modern As the industry changes and our business medicines provide.
evolves, it is important that we have a workforce and style of leadership that can Highlights in 2007 included: 2007 was a transformational year for leverage opportunities and adapt quickly to AstraZeneca and I am very proud of the changing circumstances.
I believe that a lean Seroquel XR, the sustained release form way that my Senior Executive Team and all infrastructure, combined with an agile of our schizophrenia therapy, was launched our employees are adapting to a challenging mindset and a responsible approach to in the US.
It was also approved for sale in external environment and addressing the business, will be a critical success factor in Canada and The Netherlands and the EU needs of our business.
mutual recognition process has been completed, paving the way for launches Strengthening our pipeline continues to be our STRENGTHENING THE PIPELINE in other European markets in the coming highest priority and we have made substantial I am pleased to report very significant progress months.
Regulatory submissions for progress over the past twelve months.
The number of phase III Seroquel XR for the treatment of major have also successfully delivered against our projects in the pipeline has doubled to 10 from depressive disorder and generalised sales targets, whilst continuing to challenge five and it was a record year for our phase I anxiety disorder are planned for 2008. all aspects of our cost base and drive development pipeline with 24 new molecules productivity throughout the organisation.
entering first tests in man, compared with 12 The atherosclerosis label for our statin, in 2006.
Importantly, we are also improving Crestor, has been approved in the US, The acquisition of MedImmune in June gave the quality of our early phase pipeline by reflecting its efficacy in slowing the us a leading position in biologics technology researching the use of biomarkers, to give progression of atherosclerosis in adult and took us into vaccines for the first time.
us an indication early in the discovery process patients with elevated cholesterol as an This was a very significant move for the of any toxicity or other signals that might adjunct to diet.
Increased investment in these impede progression of a molecule at a approaches to fighting disease was key to our later stage.
We launched our asthma therapy, strategy of strengthening our ability to deliver Symbicort, in the US and our innovative the next generation of valued medicines.
It is just as important to gain access to Symbicort Maintenance and Reliever MedImmune is a leader in both biologics and leading science from outside AstraZeneca Therapy Symbicort SMART is proving vaccines and brings expertise and capabilities and our externalisation programme has popular with patients in many European that span the pipeline from discovery through delivered over 20 major deals in the countries because, by combining both commercialisation.
It is also a verticallylast two years, as well as the acquisitions maintenance and rapid relief therapies integrated company that has invested for of Cambridge Antibody Technology and in a single inhaler, it puts them more in future growth and gives us significant biologics MedImmune.
control of their variable disease.
and vaccines manufacturing capability and capacity.
By combining our own biologics We also continue to partner with external Nexium continues to be the strongest projects and those of Cambridge Antibody organisations that share our commitment performing branded proton pump inhibitor Technology under MedImmunes leadership, to finding novel solutions for important areas in the US, although the highly competitive I believe we have created a powerful engine of healthcare.
During 2007 we formed market and the challenge of generic to drive future development.
a number of important new collaborations, omeprazole are both significant.
In the including one with Bristol-Myers Squibb emerging markets, Nexium continues to Our key strategic priorities are: Company to co-develop and co-commercialise show very strong growth.
saxagliptin and dapagliflozin, two products Strengthening our pipeline of new in development for the treatment of Arimidex remains the product of choice medicines from our own research Type 2 diabetes.
for post-menopausal breast cancer laboratories and by gaining access to patients and its sales are firmly in line scientific innovation outside AstraZeneca.
VALUED MEDICINES with market growth.
At AstraZeneca, we take great pride in our Delivering the full potential of all our track record of pharmaceutical innovation In the emerging markets of Asia, Eastern marketed medicines through rigorous which spans seven decades and includes Europe and Russia, we have continued to life cycle management and excellent the introduction of many world-leading build our business focusing on maximising customer support.
The key products in our range our sales today whilst investing to broaden continue to make a difference for millions access to our medicines in future.
During the of patients around the world every day.
year, we opened a new Process R&D facility INTRODUCTION 06 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED in Bangalore, India, to add to the existing R&D Implementing changes that involve the loss SENIOR EXECUTIVE TEAM CHANGES facility and we are investing in a new centre of loyal employees is one of the hardest tasks There were several important changes to my for translational medicine in Shanghai, which for a Chief Executive Officer and 2007 has Senior Executive Team during 2007.
Following will focus on researching medicines been particularly challenging in this respect.
the departure of Jon Symonds at the end of especially designed to help patients in China.
Throughout, we have consulted fully with July after a decade of outstanding service, staff representatives and acted in line with we welcomed Simon Lowth as our new In Japan, the worlds second largest local labour laws.
We have also provided Chief Financial Officer at the beginning of pharmaceutical market, we are working appropriate support to help individuals to November.
During the year, Lynn Tetrault also with the authorities to increase the range pursue their careers beyond AstraZeneca and joined the team as Executive Vice-President, of medicines available to Japanese patients.
have engaged with the communities around Human Resources and Corporate Affairs, Mutual recognition of research data our affected sites to mitigate the local impact.
following the retirement of Tony Bloxham.
generated in other Asian countries means The responsibilities of Tony Zook, President that we are able to progress more quickly DOING BUSINESS THE RIGHT WAY and Chief Executive Officer, North America with dedicated studies for these markets.
As we drive the business forward, maintaining were extended to include Global Marketing our fundamental commitment to corporate following the departure of Martin Nicklasson Inevitably, as a successful, research-based responsibility CR remains a top priority.
to pursue his career outside AstraZeneca.
pharmaceutical company, this year we have We continuously work to ensure that our David Mott, President and Chief Executive received further challenges to some of our high level values are translated into consistent Officer of MedImmune, also joined the team patents, the details of which are set out actions and behaviours worldwide that are following the completion of the acquisition of elsewhere in this report.
We will maximise aligned with, and support the achievement MedImmune in June.
the value of our intellectual property and will of our strategic business objectives.
vigorously defend our patents in order to LOOKING AHEAD protect the many years of research, and the In 2007, we further strengthened our CR We will continue our drive to broaden considerable investment, which have delivered leadership and governance to make sure access to our existing medicines, improving the medicines to which those patents relate.
that we have appropriate systems in place adherence by refining the dosage and for identifying the risks and opportunities delivery mechanisms and providing support BECOMING LEAN AND AGILE associated with our CR, together with effective to physicians and carers.
While building our In 2007, we accelerated our focus on frameworks for managing them and driving business in mature markets, we will also productivity, recognising the pressure on compliance with all relevant policies and develop the promising foundations we have the industry to deliver more with less.
As part of this, we reviewed and in emerging markets.
Driving productivity first quarter we made the first significant expanded our Code of Conduct to provide and cost reduction will continue to be a announcement of role reductions associated clear direction and guidance for all our staff priority whilst still maintaining the levels of with the implementation of our asset strategy on what is required of them.
The new Code strategic investment in R&D needed to push review.
As a result of this review, we have is being translated into over 40 languages the boundaries of medical science for the changed the manufacturing pattern across and will be distributed to all our employees benefit of patients around the world.
our operations and have addressed excess in early 2008.
In addition, since the manufacturing capacity in some areas.
acquisition in June, we are working closely Whilst we cannot predict with precision what Our drive is to maximise the efficiency of our with MedImmune, which has its own the next decade will look like for our business, supply chain whilst maintaining the highest long-standing commitment to working we do know that the environment in which possible standards of quality and security of responsibly, to make sure that our policies we operate will continue to present new supply at every stage.
I am confident that AstraZeneca has the strategy, skills and At the half-year, we announced further job CR targets and measures are included in our resources that will enable us to anticipate, reductions resulting from productivity business performance management framework and adapt quickly and effectively to the improvements in other areas of the business.
and related objectives are being included in changes that our business faces.
Above all, The full implementation of these reductions personal targets at all levels to support the our single-minded determination to succeed will take until 2009.
However, they reflect integration of CR management across the will ensure that we will continue to stay important efficiency improvements including: full range of our business activities.
focused on our mission to deliver great the centralisation of clinical data medicines and a business performance that management to a single approach managed You can read about key aspects of our creates enduring value for our shareholders.
at two locations: re-shaping the sales force in commitment to doing business the right several European countries to be able to way, and our performance, throughout this better respond to changes in the respective report and further details are provided on national healthcare systems: the our website, astrazeneca.
establishment of a single, global contract We are making progress, but in the everwith IBM for information technology services changing world in which we live, there will DAVID R BRENNAN and support: and the globalisation of always be work to do to ensure that Chief Executive Of cer functions such as Human Resources and AstraZeneca is not only valued as a source Regulatory Affairs.
of great medicines, but also trusted for the way in which we do business worldwide.
