3d Time: 15:16:49 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -2037346556 Overview Chief Executives statement BT has been capturing the imaginations of customers, shareholders, analysts, suppliers and employees around the world.
Weve done this by embracing change.
By demonstrating not only that we can thrive on it, but that we can help our customers thrive on it as well.
Weve done it by proving that when it comes to modern communications, the possibilities really are endless.
however successful, is that there is no end point.
No moment Five years ago, we were primarily a UK lines and calls at which you can sit back and think job done.
business: today we are offering communications possibilities Even when we hit five million broadband connections in 2005 that no one had even thought of back then to customers in more than a year ahead of schedule there was no time to 170 countries.
Today, that number is around 11 million and Possibilities that really do enable them to lead fuller lives and climbing.
run more profitable, innovative businesses.
Our broadband success sums up the type of company BT In a very short time, weve gone from a narrowband, is becoming.
A company that goes the extra mile, that rallies xed-line communications business, to a broadband company behind its goals, that nds ways of meeting its customers harnessing the power of modern networks to help our customers needs locally, nationally, internationally and globally.
communicate anywhere, any time, using whatever devices they happen to choose.
FROM OUR TIME TO YOUR TIME Weve brought levels of choice and control to our customers Nothing is more important than offering a great customer at home, at work, or out and about, that would once have experience first time, every time.
It differentiates BT from the seemed impossible.
Excellent customer service can only be delivered in customer time the time that customers want.
Quite rightly, customers have no interest in, or patience with, our time the time it Helping some of the takes our systems to make it happen.
Meeting customers needs in customer time is vital to proving worlds largest companies that we understand them, share their priorities and enthusiasms, and really do put them first.
and organisations serve This type of real-time customer experience is best delivered by software.
In the future, BTs services will increasingly be based on software designed, delivered and updated remotely their customers around by computers over broadband networks.
These software-driven, networked IT services will be delivered Who would have thought five years ago that BT would be over our global twenty-first century broadband network.
offering next-generation digital TV over broadband?
Our BT We have set ourselves the target of becoming number one for Vision service enables customers to watch what they want when customer service within two years.
To ensure that we continue they want without having to pay a monthly subscription.
to think and act in customer time, two measures will apply Who would have thought that our customers would have throughout the company and keep everyone focused.
First, we been benefiting from intelligent, seamless xed mobile will measure how successfully we get things right first time.
communications like BT Fusion at home, at work or in Second, we will measure the improvements we make in the between chatting, swapping data, surng the internet, doing cycle time the time between the start and end of any business?
Who would have thought that we would be helping some of the worlds largest companies and organisations do business and serve their customers around the world?
Who would have thought that geography would be history and time irrelevant?
6 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 02b.
3d Time: 15:16:50 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 447681568 OPEN ORGANISATION, OPEN MINDS Our extensive global network enables us to serve customers It is vital that BT is an open business with an open mind.
in all the worlds key commercial centres either directly or We are open to new ideas and new ways of doing things.
We are working with suppliers, industry partners and others with Major contracts in the 2007 financial year included a deal a single, compelling objective to get the best possible services with Dutch electronics giant, Philips, to provide data, voice, to our customers around the world as quickly as possible.
conferencing and mobile services in Europe, the Middle East Customers dont care about whether any given service was and Africa, and a deal with PepsiCo to manage a portfolio of designed by W, manufactured by X, delivered by Y and billed advanced services covering more than 900 locations in over for by Z.
They care about what it can do for them whether it 60 countries.
makes life easier or a business more profitable.
Our services are helping organisations meet the needs of their own customers wherever they may be.
CITIZENS OF A GLOBAL VILLAGE All our customers private individuals, families and large THE RIGHT PEOPLE FOR THE RIGHT JOB corporations are increasingly thinking and behaving like global Strategies and plans cannot, of themselves, deliver the kind of citizens.
They want the world on their PC, laptop, or hand held transformation that BT is experiencing and that we are going to device.
And they want to be able to organise themselves and do have to accelerate in the future.
business, build markets and win customers as and where it suits Thats why its so important that our workforce is just as them.
In order to reect that diversity, we A truly global softwareare recruiting the brightest and the best from around the world.
The job of every person who works for BT is what it always was: to ensure that everything they do every day is done for all And meeting their global needs means ensuring that we really our customers around the world.
Only now, they have to do it do understand them, that we really can get inside their heads.
quicker than ever before, in more innovative ways than ever For consumer customers, global communication means being before and more seamlessly than ever before.
able to keep in touch and access information whether they are I have no doubt whatever that they will do just that.
in York or New York, Mumbai or Rome.
For modern organisations, global communication means the opportunity to take advantage of the best resources and talents wherever they are located.
We aim to become a truly global software-driven services company, with a great global brand, helping our customers get the best from globalisation.
Its a fantastic opportunity and one that BT is seizing with both hands.
Ben Verwaayen In recent years, weve acquired a reputation for winning and Chief Executive delivering complex, large-scale networked IT services contracts.
16 May 2007 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 7 Overview Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:16:53 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 112974357 Report of the Directors Business review We are committed to increasing shareholder value by transforming our customers experience through service excellence.
Business review Business review 30 Financial review 9 Introduction to the Business review 49 Corporate governance 9 Our operational structure 9 Our strategy 10 Outlook 11 Lines of business 11 BT Global Services 12 BT Retail 16 BT Wholesale 17 Openreach 18 Transforming our costs 18 Improving customer satisfaction and service 19 Acquisitions and disposals 20 Regulation, competition and prices 22 Relationship with HM Government 22 Legal proceedings 22 Resources 22 Corporate reputation The Directors consider that the and brand strength Report of the Directors has been prepared in accordance with the 23 Motivating our people principles in the Reporting and living the BT values Statement on the Operating and 24 Research and Financial Review issued by the development Accounting Standards Board.
24 IT Support 24 Property 24 Our commitment to society 27 Group risk factors Please see Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on page 158.
8 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F
