Chief Executives statement Charter delivered excellent results for 2007, building on the performance reported in earlier years and at the half year.
These results were achieved against the background of generally favourable market conditions that prevailed during the year.
In 2007, sales increased by 15.4 per cent to 1,451.1 million, Summary of results notwithstanding a negative currency impact of 2.2 per cent.
Adjusted operating profit increased to 173.8 million, despite Movement adverse currency movements of 1.5 million.
2006 in key 2007 restated 1 performance m m indicators Our principal measure of the value that we are creating for ESAB 970.8 828.4 17.2% shareholders is adjusted earnings per share, which increased Howden 480.3 429.5 11.8% by 24.4 per cent to 84.7 pence per share.
Charter consolidated revenue 1,451.1 1,257.9 15.4% Summary of results The key performance indicators used by the Board in assessing Howden order book 416.7 361.0 15.4% the results of the welding, cutting and automation business ESAB, the air and gas handling business Howden and the consolidated results of Charter are summarised in the ESAB 126.6 102.1 24.0% following table, alongside comparatives for 2006.
Howden 57.6 50.3 14.5% 2 Howden profit on sale In relation to each indicator, the outcome for the year is of property 4.8 considered against the outcome for the previous year and Central operations 10.9 12.6 against budget, taking into account internal and external Charter consolidated factors, and any unusual or non-recurring items, which operating profit 173.3 144.6 19.8% otherwise might have a distorting effect on the outcome.
The results for 2007 continue the trend of ten successive Operating margin half years of growth in adjusted earnings per share, as the ESAB 13.0% 12.3% 70 basis businesses have been strengthened and improved.
points Howden 12.0% 11.7% 30 basis ESAB achieved strong increases in its sales and operating points profit, which were in line with the demanding targets set by the Board, and which reflected generally favourable market Charter Adjusted earnings per share 84.7p 68.1p 24.4% conditions and the significant efforts made to develop the Cash flow from operations 149.1m 106.8m 39.6% business in recent years.
Margins improved with increased activity and operational improvements in the business.
1 the 2006 comparatives have been restated to reflect the change in accounting for post employment benefits 2 excluding profit on the sale of property in 2006 Howdens increases in sales and operating profit were also in line with the targets set by the Board.
These targets reflected generally favourable market conditions and also the It is recognised that financial performance is not a sufficient changing composition of Howdens business as higher sales measure on its own.
Non-financial key performance indicators, to customers in North America and Europe offset the such as health and safety and environmental measures, are anticipated fall in sales to customers in China.
Margins monitored with robust plans in place to continuously improve continued to move forward.
These matters receive regular focus, both from management and the Board and are reported on in the The Board considers that the best measure of the extent Companys Corporate social responsibility report.
to which Charter is generating shareholder value is adjusted earnings per share, which is considered against budget and against the performance of a peer group of companies.
The actual growth in adjusted earnings per share achieved by Charter in 2007 of 24.4 per cent was ahead of budget and ranked favourably alongside the growth achieved by its peer group.
06 Charter plc Annual Report 2007 Status of businesses During 2007, Howden grew sales by nearly 12 per cent to During 2007, both ESAB and Howden continued to build 480.3 million.
It also achieved a better balance in business upon their market leadership positions, through commissioning between Europe, North America, China and the rest of the new factories, enhancing their product ranges and entering world: each of which accounted for around one-quarter of its new countries and regions.
ESAB and Howden are continuing sales.
In 2007 margins grew by 30 basis points compared to the process of change and development that have been 2006.
Sales to customers in Europe and North America grew implemented over the last five years, during which time ESAB significantly during the year.
We expect these sales to remain has significantly developed its presence in emerging markets strong in 2008.
Despite the fall in sales to China during 2007, and Howden has redefined itself from being a manufacturer it will remain a significant market for Howden.
to being an applications engineer.
The principal markets where Howden sells its fans, new In 2007, ESAB continued to focus on the creation of value build coal-fired power generating plant and emission control from its customer relationships, technology and manufacturing equipment, remained strong.
High levels of worldwide facilities.
ESABs markedly improved financial performance, investment in the oil and gas and petrochemical industries over recent years, has been made possible by operational were maintained during 2007 and Howden continues to improvements which include positioning a significant part of focus on these sectors with both fans and compressors.
its manufacturing capacity in low cost locations in Europe and Howdens compressor business made considerable progress elsewhere, driving high levels of plant utilisation and increasing during 2007, with the successful integration of Howden the economic scale of operations.
The shortfall in capital Compressors in which we acquired the outstanding 51 per expenditure that occurred whilst Charter was suffering from cent shareholding in December 2006 and the opening of the excessively high levels of indebtedness has now been largely new compressor factory in China.
Howden is pursuing other remedied.
Significant increases in capacity, which have been areas where its compressor technology can be put to good underway since mid-2006, are due to complete by the middle use.
Wastewater treatment is perceived as a significant of this year.
This new capacity is focused on high growth opportunity given the growing water shortages in China and products and is predominantly located in developing economies, many other countries.
such as China, from where a significant amount of product is now exported.
We expect to undertake continued investment During 2007, Howden successfully grew its aftermarket in solid wire capacity, increased geographic coverage and also business, with revenue and margins up 10.3 per cent and in cost reduction programmes.
The benefits of the Lean 150 basis points respectively.
The Chinese aftermarket initiative, which was launched in 2005, continued to grow business progressed well during the year.
It is being expanded beyond manufacturing to other and we are focused on ensuring that Howden becomes areas of the business including logistics and administration.
a major force in the Chinese aftermarket.
Within the ESAB welding business, the standard equipment At 31 December 2007, Howdens order book stood at business grew significantly in 2007, with revenue up some 416.7 million, a record year-end level and an increase 15 per cent and margins improving towards our expectations.
of 15.4 per cent compared to the end of 2006.
It has The development of the business will take another significant continued to grow in the first two months of 2008, and at the step forward later this year with the opening of the new end of February was a record, standing at over 500 million.
This will supply a middle market range of welding equipment to customers in Asia.
The cutting and automation business recovered from the problems reported in the first half, with an overall margin for the year of 8.9 per cent, and finished the year with record order books.
Charter plc Annual Report 2007 07 Chief Executives statement continued The power industry Europe North America China Rest of World GW The IEA forecasts that worldwide coal-fired electricity generating capacity will almost double by 2030.
This corresponds to an 3,000 average of 57 GW of net new capacity being added each year.
2,500 Demand for electricity in China is expected to increase broadly in line with GDP growth.
To meet this increasing demand, each 2,000 year on average, China is expected to add 30 GW of net additional coal-fired generating capacity.
China is therefore 1,500 expected to remain an important market for Howden.
1,000 In addition to the construction of new generating capacity, Howden expects to benefit from ongoing programmes worldwide for the 500 retrofitting of emission control equipment to existing capacity.
0 2007 2015 2030 Acquisitions and disposals A significant part of Howdens business is the supply of ESAB and Howden completed a number of acquisitions equipment to the electricity supply industry, most particularly during the year.
The combined cost of these acquisitions, for use in coal-fired generating plant.
As such, demand for net of cash acquired, was some 25 million, details of which new Howden equipment is strongly influenced by the are given in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
construction of new coal-fired power stations.
In July, ESAB acquired the business and assets of ATAS, We expect that the worldwide construction of new electricity a cutting technology company, and Air Liquides Argentine generating capacity will continue at historic highs and with welding business.
ESAB also increased its stake in ESAB the continued high price of natural gas and concerns over India, the market leader in India, from 37.3 per cent to its future supply, as well as the on-going public debate over 55.6 per cent.
In October, ESAB completed the acquisition nuclear power, we expect coal to continue to be seen as of Electrodi Ihtiman, the market leader for welding electrodes an attractive primary energy source.
The International Energy in Bulgaria, which will give ESAB enhanced access to markets Agency IEA predicts that the global coal-fired generating in the Balkan region.
capacity will almost double by 2030, implying a net annual In July, Howden acquired the outstanding 50 per cent average addition of 57 GW of new plant per year.
In China, shareholding in its subsidiary, Bateman Howden South Africa construction of new coal-fired generating capacity over this Pty Ltd, which designs and services gas cleaning systems used period is expected to average 30 GW per year, which is more in coal-fired power stations.
Howden also disposed of its nonthan the UKs entire present coal-fired generating capacity.
core shareholding of 42 per cent in Pump Brands Pty Limited.
There is also some evidence to suggest that, in China, older generating capacity will be replaced sooner than previously Outlook expected.
This underlines that China will remain an important The outlook for both businesses remains positive.
In other emerging economies, such as for welding and cutting products is determined largely by India and Central and Eastern Europe, and in more mature worldwide consumption of steel, which is expected to grow economies, such as Western Europe and North America, at around 5 per cent per year in the short to medium term.
we expect increasing new build of coal-fired power plants, Higher growth in demand from Brazil, Russia, India and China, accompanied by the refurbishment and upgrading of and other emerging economies is expected to more than existing plant.
offset any slowdown in North America and Western Europe.
Governmental regulations can also stimulate demand for a Process conversion the move away from electrodes to number of Howden products, particularly in the environmental continuous processes continues, particularly in emerging protection sector, where Howden supplies equipment for use markets.
This results in stronger growth in demand for solid in processes which reduce atmospheric pollution generated and flux cored wires than for higher margin electrodes.
by coal-fired power stations and industrial plant.
Demand for However, growth is expected in all product areas as market emission control products has been an important factor consolidation takes place.
The increased use of continuous behind the upturn in orders from customers in North America.
processes will mean more opportunity for ESABs welding In the longer term the commercialisation of processes to equipment, and the shortage of skilled welders is likely to capture and store CO will provide an opportunity for Howden.
2 increase the opportunity for advanced automated solutions.
We expect increasing demand for Howden products from the The outlook for end markets is further strengthened by petrochemical and oil and gas industries.
The high level of oil major developments taking place in energy, oil and gas and prices seen during 2007 continues to stimulate investment, infrastructure around the world.
The strong demand for ships particularly in the refining sector.
We see major potential for is being maintained with shipyards around the world heavily this sector going forward.
loaded for the next few years.
08 Charter plc Annual Report 2007 Charters strategy is to deliver sustained growth in shareholder value through the development of ESAB and Howden as leaders in their respective fields.
Howden has opened representative offices in both India and develop further its position in the petrochemicals industry, Russia and remains optimistic about the prospects for these in particular with compressors: two significant markets where future potential is high.
enhance its presence in other industries where its Charters strategy technology and expertise can be used to advantage: and Charters strategy is to deliver sustained growth in shareholder continue to develop its aftermarket business, in particular value through the development of ESAB and Howden as as recently installed equipment requires maintenance.
leaders in their respective fields.
Current trading and prospects A comprehensive review of strategy was undertaken during As we progress through 2008, we see significant opportunities 2007 which was approved by the Board in September 2007. for both ESAB and Howden arising from their global presence, This confirmed the potential for Charter to continue to make market leadership positions, their strong technology and flexible significant progress in operating profit and earnings over the cost bases, supported by Charters strengthened balance next five years.
There are positive long-term dynamics in key end-user The Board concluded that Charter should remain focused segments of both ESAB and Howden, such as power, oil and on its two businesses, both of which it believes are capable gas, petrochemicals and shipbuilding.
of further development and the creation of significant The current year has started well.
Markets remain strong with additional value for shareholders.
positive trends in both the mature markets of Europe and North ESAB will: America and the emerging markets worldwide, with particular strength in South America.
The Board, therefore, views the enhance its market leadership through brand recognition, outlook for 2008 at this early stage of the year with confidence.
new technology and enhanced customer service: act as a consolidator in the global welding industry, using Michael Foster acquisitions to strengthen market positions, enter new Chief Executive markets and improve its technology base: 12 March 2008 leverage its global footprint through establishing manufacturing facilities in locations which best suit the needs of the market: and achieve growth through increasing volumes in developing markets and through range expansion, especially into high-end technology products, in established developed markets.
Howden will: build upon its world-leading position as an applications engineer, which designs, manufactures, installs and maintains performance critical components for air and gas handling: maintain and enhance its position in all those regions where there is expected to be significant new build of coal-fired generating capacity and emission control equipment: Charter plc Annual Report 2007 09
