Review by the Chief Executive GROUP RESULTS The Group performed strongly throughout the year and revenue from continuing operations increased 36% to 254.7 million.
16% of this growth was achieved from our existing businesses, 9% from the full year trading of acquisitions made in 2006 and 11% from the two acquisitions completed in 2007.
The Countermeasures division increased its sales to record levels, in spite of a frustrating performance from Kilgore and the adverse impact of the continuing weakness of the dollar.
The Energetics division had another excellent year, achieving an HEALTH AND SAFETY 85% increase in revenue, and for the first time generating On 9 October 2007, an explosion occurred when a white revenue in excess of the Countermeasures division.
light composition ignited whilst being mixed in a remote Underlying operating margins for the Group continued to operation in a manufacturing building at the Simmel Difesa improve and by the year end reached 24%.
Enhanced site in Colleferro, Italy.
The product which was being made automation, process improvements and the rationalisation is used for the illumination of battlefields, and had been of both products and manufacturing locations, particularly manufactured in the facility for more than ten years within the Energetics division, continued to improve our without incident.
Tragically, there was one fatality, two performance.
Consequently, underlying operating profit non-life threatening injuries and nine people were taken to rose strongly by 59% to 61.2 million.
hospital suffering from shock and distress.
A detailed investigation into the incident has been undertaken in full The operating cash inflow during the year was excellent at co-operation with the authorities, and we await the final 60.6 million, equivalent to a cash conversion rate from conclusions from the authorities before access to the underlying operating profit of 99%.
Capital expenditure affected building is granted.
increased 43% to 14.6 million as the Group continued to invest significantly in improved automation and additional manufacturing facilities.
Investment in company funded research and development R&D also increased 69% to 5.4 million but still represented only 2.1% of Group revenue.
This will be augmented in 2008 by a new five year Revenue by destination 2007 research partnership with the Defence Academy and Cranfield University, which will focus on our longer term technology and product requirements.
1% 7% At the year end, the Group had an excellent order book of 10% 297 million, some 39% higher than the previous year.
This record level of order cover continues to underpin the prospects for 2008.
I am also delighted to report that the 43% order book for the Energetics division was 177.8 million, 15% 111% higher than the previous year, creating a solid foundation for continued strong growth in the future.
USA 24% UK Europe Middle East Far East Rest of World 6 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 As referred to last year, the Group is committed to achieving the highest levels of safety in both its products and its manufacturing facilities.
Significant investment in automated manufacturing with remote operation continues, in line with our commitment to reduce operator risk, and all levels of management have been tasked with continuously improving our levels of safety.
The Board remains focused on reducing the risks to as low a level as reasonably practicable, and will continue to invest in improved transport aircraft used by the US, UK and other coalition processes and the new capital facilities that can achieve forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Chemring Countermeasures, our UK business, had another excellent year, generating 31.1 million of revenue, which COUNTERMEASURES was 40% higher than the previous year.
This growth was Orders: 123.0 million driven by the successful qualification and production of our Revenue: 126.5 million new spectral flare for use by the UK and coalition partners.
Operating profit: 38.6 million Construction and qualification of a new special purpose facility was achieved over a five month period, and full Operating margin: 30% production output of in excess of 20,000 spectral flares per The global expendable countermeasures market continued month was consistently delivered throughout the second to grow in 2007 and is now estimated at 237 million, an half of the year - a tremendous achievement.
During the increase over the previous year of just over 10%, in spite of year, further spectral flare variants were developed and the adverse impact of the dollar depreciation against sterling flight-tested for combat and transport aircraft applications.
Revenue from our Countermeasures We expect production of a number of these new flares to division, however, grew by only 7% year-on-year, reflecting begin shortly.
the slightly lower than expected sales volumes achieved by Production of conventional flare types also reached record Kilgore in the second half of the year.
The record demand for levels.
The first batches of flares for Typhoon were our decoys continues to be driven principally by the threat delivered to all of the participating nations and a number of from shoulder-launched missiles to the helicopters and significant export contracts are expected shortly.
We also continued to deliver chaff and flares to India as part of a multi-year contract for protecting the Indian Air Force Mirage 2000 aircraft.
This contract follows on from our previous programme to supply the Indian Air Force with flares for its Mig-29 combat aircraft.
During the year, there was increased interest shown in naval countermeasures, particularly from NATO countries looking to operate in littoral waters.
Chaff rounds were delivered to Spain and Australia, and advanced CHIMERA rounds were supplied to Norway.
Furthermore, four new contracts for Spain, Norway, Romania and Chile were won against fierce competition.
These successes have broadened our customer base and reflect our increasing market position for 130mm naval munitions.
Alloy Surfaces also had an excellent year, generating record levels of production and $132.1 million of revenue, which was over 14% higher than in the previous year.
Production of the M211 decoy for the US Army continued at a high rate and over 800,000 units were delivered to schedule throughout the year.
Alloy Surfaces also secured a CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 7 Review by the Chief Executive CONTINUED $20 million contract from the UK Ministry of Defence for ENERGETICS the supply of BOL IR special material decoys for use on Orders: 172.0 million Harrier and Tornado aircraft, with a further $20 million Revenue: 128.2 million option to cover any surge requirement.
Negotiations with the US Air Force, US Navy and US Army on multi-year Operating profit: 27.9 million contracts, covering seven of the eight most important Operating margin: 22% special material decoys, have all started.
The US Navy During the year, the operational management of awarded an initial two year contract for the supply of PW Defence in the UK, Comet in Germany and MJU-49 decoys and has continued discussions to create a Pirotcnia Oroquieta in Spain was combined to create a five year contract for all of its major products.
The pan-European pyrotechnic business, Chemring Defence, US Air Force and US Army negotiations for five year with a coherent sales network and new contracts have progressed but have been delayed by the  for manufacturing that are delivering protracted discussions on budgets that have taken place benefits of scale on distinct families of products.
between the Department of Defense and Congress.
These new contracts are all expected to be finalised during 2008.
Chemring Defence UK had an excellent year, with record levels of production and revenue of 23.9 million, almost Kilgore had a rather frustrating year, even though it 100% higher than in 2006.
Strong export growth was generated a record level of revenue at $67.4 million.
This achieved in the Middle East with sales to Saudi Arabia, was 1% higher than last year but about $15 million lower Kuwait, Bahrain and Qatar.
The successful management of than expected.
our first prime contract was a notable milestone during the Revenue growth was impacted as a result of two factors: year and has resulted in the placement of follow-on Kilgores high volume conventional flare programs contracts.
A major success was also achieved in the US encountered several minor manufacturing problems that towards the end of the year, when a five year IDIQ took time to resolve, and the production of three new indefinite delivery indefinite quantity contract, worth up products encountered a number of technical problems to $78 million, was placed by the US Army for 66mm associated with the start of volume manufacturing, non-lethal Vehicle-launched Discharge Grenades.
including the lack of timely availability of test aircraft to Chemring Defence Germany formerly Comet secured complete the flight qualification.
major contracts for both its ordnance-clearance and In spite of these set backs Kilgore managed to capture a battlefield training products.
The UK, Australia and several record $98 million of orders, of which $72 million related to Eastern European countries all placed contracts for its countermeasures business and $26 million to its substantial numbers of the PEMBS ordnance-clearance energetics business.
This resulted in a year end order book system, which has now established itself as the leading of $99 million, 44% higher than in 2006.
This will provide a portable ordnance-clearance system in the world.
Our solid foundation for improvement in 2008.
Kilgore was also MECS multiple effect cartridge system battlefield hugely successful in securing, against fierce competition, a simulation ammunition is now in-service with the US, UK, contract from the US Navy, for the manufacture of 100% of and a number of other countries.
Our performance under the advanced flares for the F-18 aircraft.
A review of the the US Army contract is delighting the customer and design and technical data has now been completed and first deliveries are now running at about 700,000 units per year.
article testing is scheduled during the first half of 2008.
Furthermore, the US Army has ordered 1,400 more launchers to increase training, and has recently qualified Kilgore also successfully completed the first article test black and yellow smoke variants to broaden their weapon activities on the flares for the F-22 aircraft, as a direct effects options.
We have also recently completed contractor to the US Air Force.
The first production development of an IED-simulator kit and a number of deliveries have commenced on schedule, and construction systems have been bought by the US Army for qualification of a high volume production facility is well underway, which purposes.
This simulator is intended to be used at squad, should be completed by the end of the first half of 2008.
A platoon and company level for realistic training in urban contract worth $12 million for the second year of operations, such as check point and convoy training.
production was awarded in September 2007.
The operational management of Nobel Energetics and Leafield Engineering were also combined during the year to 8 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 form a new business, Chemring Energetics, which becomes BDL Systems also had a good year, completing its fourth the UK centre-of-excellence for demolition stores, ceremonial contract to supply a Far Eastern customer with equipment ammunition, detonators, actuators and pyro-mechanisms.
and facilities for handling unexploded ordnance and The new business generated record revenue of 22.7 million, roadside bombs.
BDL Systems also completed development 22% higher than in 2006.
Sales of metron actuators of its next generation initiation system BREACH, which is increased 36% and sales of demolition stores 35%, whilst primarily designed for the explosive means-of-entry sales of NLAW flight and launch motors increased 65% as market and makes use of the latest securely coded data full production was finally started.
A rocket motor grain for transmission techniques.
The system has attracted great 70mm air-launched rockets was also developed and is interest in the US and NATO countries, and is expected to expected to complete qualification by April 2008. generate significant sales over the next few years.
Technical Ordnance also performed well in the first full year Chemring Marine completed the consolidation of the of ownership, with record revenue of $45.6 million, manufacturing of marine distress signals in Germany during compared with the $34 million generated in the twelve 2007.
The increased volumes and the use of automated months prior to acquisition.
Good progress was made in the manufacturing has significantly improved efficiency and development of strategic partnering with the three US substantially improved the profitability of the business.
ammunition prime contractors, ATK, General Dynamics and During the year, two major worldwide agreements were L3.
ATK, in particular, has significantly increased the signed with the major liferaft suppliers, Viking and volume of explosive pellet and fuze components ordered RFD Beaufort, for the supply of our commercial distress signals.
During the year, Technical In March, we announced the acquisition of Simmel Difesa, Ordnance was awarded production contracts, from two based in Colleferro, Italy.
Simmel Difesa is a key supplier of prime contractors, for the supply of M55 detonators for use energetics sub-systems, such as fuzes, safety and arming in 40mm rifle-launched grenades used by the US Army.
systems, warheads and modular charge systems, for major Three new production stations are currently being qualified ammunition prime contractors around the world.
The and are expected to achieve 900,000 units per month by company is also a specialist manufacturer of medium and the end of April 2008. large calibre ammunition, rockets and illumination mortar Kilgore increased its sales of pyrotechnics and munitions by rounds for a substantial number of NATO and non-NATO 68% compared with 2006.
During the year, Kilgore armed forces.
It also has a second site in Anagni, Italy, successfully completed factory acceptance test activities on where it has a specialist facility for the disposal of the MK4 practice bomb cartridge, and produced and ordnance at the end of its operational life.
Kilgore was also awarded a In spite of the accident in October, Simmel Difesa achieved $30 million, five year IDIQ contract for both the MK58 and all of its 2007 objectives and delivered all of the 81mm the MK25 marine location markers directly from the US Navy.
white light and black light illuminating mortar rounds CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 9 Review by the Chief Executive CONTINUED required for use in Afghanistan.
Production of the illumination canister will restart by the end of February 2008.
A new multi-year contract for the continued supply of both types of illuminating ammunition is currently under negotiation.
Simmel Difesa has also recently secured a major contract, worth d26 million, to supply high explosive anti-tank ammunition to a NATO country.
FUTURE PROSPECTS Countermeasures The market outlook for our expendable countermeasures business continues to be positive.
Over the next three years, we believe that the global market is likely to expand at just over 20% per annum, driven by the continued demand from the US Army and the US Air Forces requirements for the helicopters and transport aircraft for the movement of protection of helicopters, transport aircraft and advanced troops across the country, and to provide rapid reaction flares for air-superiority combat aircraft.
combat troops to support the Iraqis when required.
In Iraq, the US surge operation appears to have enhanced In Afghanistan, the number of NATO troops increased to security and allowed the Iraqi army to take over the 43,000 during the last six months, and are reported to be majority of peacekeeping activities.
The US Department of conducting extensive operations against the insurgents Defense has indicated that significant combat troop across the south of the country at the border with Pakistan.
withdrawals may take place towards the end of 2008.
NATO commanders are also expected to bolster the force However, the US still expects to support the Iraqi army with with additional troops currently allocated to Iraq.
Both the OUTLOOK FOR COUNTERMEASURES Global Market Market Shares 2007 500 8% 7% 450 26% 400 Growth rate: 20% per year to 2010 13% 350 Exports 300 5% 13% 250 UK Alloy Surfaces 200 14% Kilgore 13% 150 Chemring 1% US Air Countermeasures Force Chemring 100 Australia Total Market - 237 million 50 US Navy Armtec Defense Wallop Defence US Army 0 Systems 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thiokol All figures based on program funding plans and estimates of key export markets IMI Other 10 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 million UK Ministry of Defence and the US Department of Defense In battlefield training, the Group is building on its strong continue to stress the long term nature of these operations position with the MECS technology and is developing a low in Afghanistan.
weight, modular battlefield effects simulator which is adaptable to combat vehicles for force-on-force training, as Current UN operations, excluding Iraq and Afghanistan, well as for simulating hits in force-on-target live fire now involve more than 140,000 troops.
Saab Training Systems have adopted the helicopters and transport aircraft to support these technology as standard and we are in discussion with the operations will be needed to provide greater operational US Army on qualification for the US market.
Demand for decoys is, therefore, expected to continue.
The development of new initiator technology will also help BDL Systems to penetrate both the US and NATO EOD A number of important aircraft will enter service over the markets.
BDL Systems is currently completing development next ten years.
In Europe, the introduction of Typhoon will of a new timer answer back system TABS that provides have a major impact on demand for decoys, particularly for long-range two-way radio-frequency initiation with remote advanced technologies against sophisticated surface-to-air programmable time delay and reliable sterilisation or air-to-air threats.
However, the biggest growth is capabilities.
TABS and BREACH are expected to have a expected to be in the US market where procurement of major impact on the global market over the next few years.
advanced flares for all its major combat aircraft, namely the F-18, F-22 and the F-35, is planned.
The Group is the lead contractor for the manufacture of flares for all of these platforms and is, therefore, extremely well placed to exploit these opportunities as the requirements grow.
Energetics Pyrotechnics and explosive ordnance disposal EOD The global market for pyrotechnics and EOD is estimated to be approximately 3 billion per annum.
In 2007, the Groups revenue in this sector was 74.8 million, which represents a 2.5% market share.
The market remains fragmented with a large number of small players, many of whom are nationally focused and with limited product ranges.
There are, therefore, many opportunities for growth.
In November 2007, we announced the acquisition of Richmond Electronics & Engineering Limited.
Richmond, which is based in the UK, is a supplier of EOD equipment which complements that provided by BDL Systems.
It produces disrupters which fire a water jet or projectile into the firing circuit of an explosive device to neutralise it without detonation.
Its patented recoilless disrupters and its proprietary laser-aimed weapons carriers are fitted to most of the leading US and UK bomb disposal robots.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 11 Review by the Chief Executive CONTINUED Simmel Difesa expects to complete qualification of its 155mm modular charge system in the first half of 2008.
The Group expects there to be significant opportunities for this technology and is exploring a number of strategic partnerships to access key non-NATO markets.
Overall, the future outlook remains encouraging and many opportunities exist for growth.
The Group has a strong order book, which today stands at a record level of 401 million, up 35% since the year end and up 63% since January 2007.
The Board remains confident that the prospects for the Group in 2008 continue to be excellent.
Energetics Munitions The global market for munitions is approximately 10 billion per annum.
In 2007, the Groups revenue in this segment was 53.4 million, representing only 0.5%.
However, our acquisition of Simmel Difesa significantly enhances our position in the market, and we believe that there are major opportunities for growth at both the prime contract and component supplier level.
Simmel Difesa is a world leader in naval ammunition and is currently well placed to expand its position in the 76mm market over the next few years.
Qualification of the 76 62mm naval round for the Franco-Italian FREMM programme is scheduled for early 2008 and production is expected to quickly follow.
The Group is also working with Oto Melara and Alliant Techsystems to introduce an Insensitive Munition IM variant into the US market.
DR D J PRICE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 22 JANUARY 2008 Excludes intangible amortisation arising from business combinations of 3.4 million 2006: 0.7 million 12 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
