Chief Executives Review These results continue to differentiate Brixtons business from the general commercial property market.
Given our decision to concentrate predominantly on the prime West London market we have demonstrated record breaking Estimated Rental Value ERV growth at 5.0% in 2007 this is over 4 times that achieved by the relevant IPD Index, a higher volume of lettings and a reduction in underlying vacancies allowing for our deliberately active development programme.
When we sold almost a quarter of our portfolio in 2006 we announced that we expected to see an improving acquisition market in our areas of operation and indeed we have been very successful committing 345m since May 2006.
It is significant that whilst IPD shows all property 1 1 falling in capital value terms by 7.7% during 2007 and industrial by 8.4% overall, our own property portfolio valuation produced a surplus of 0.7%, or 1.5% on a like-for-like basis.
Real Estate Investment Trust legislation was introduced in 2006 in the UK, and Brixton was one of the first nine companies to elect from 1 January 2007.
This should be seen as a simpler route to market for investors and the closed ended REITs suffer from none of the repricing of the bid-offer spread or indeed imposition of withdrawal restrictions as evidenced in recent announcements from a significant number of institutionally managed funds.
Many of these have been exposed to sharp reductions in property prices from portfolios that are often unfocused, secondary, do not have specialist management, are fee-laden and have opaque and illiquid structures.
We continue to see the globalisation of real estate ownership and are pleased to report a much broader share base both by type and number of organisations and geographical location.
Since the beginning of 2006 our non UK shareholding has risen from 25% to 52% and average trading volumes following REIT conversion have increased by over 200% to an average of 3m shares a day.
Given the recent re-focusing of our portfolio Brixton is in a good position.
However, we are not immune from wider influences and the ongoing uncertainties in the global credit markets.
The effect of this on the economies of the UK, the US and the Eurozone in particular is likely to have a dampening effect on the activities of the UK corporate sector.
Slowing growth rates, combined with availability and pricing restrictions on finance, could adversely affect occupational demand for property.
We will therefore continue to closely monitor our tenants, specifically through the interaction of B-Servs customer management.
However, at this stage there have been no real signs of a material slow down in occupational demand and no increase in our low levels of bad debt provisions or insolvencies.
Indeed, bad debt provision fell by 50% to 0.3m in 2007.
A major negative for our sector is that from 1 April 2008 owners and tenants of vacant commercial property will be liable for full rates following the Governments decision in the 2007 Budget to withdraw empty rate relief.
This change has been introduced without consultation with the business community and its effect on vacant industrial property is that rates will be payable in full after an exemption period of 6 months.
Previously, vacant industrial property was exempt from rates indefinitely in order to encourage businesses to expand.
There will be a detrimental effect on the Groups earnings at least in the short term which it is estimated for 2008 will be in the order of 5m.
The Governments rationale for changing the legislation is misguided it will not encourage more efficient use of property and lowering of rents, as landlords do not leave buildings deliberately empty.
Instead it will hold back speculative development and regeneration, and will impose an unnecessary burden on businesses thereby making it difficult for them to grow and expand into new premises.
Many operational businesses will also have vacant leasehold or freehold premises.
The cost of vacant rates will be factored into landlords investment and development appraisals, thereby leading to higher rents being passed on to occupiers.
The net equivalent yield on our portfolio has increased by 20 bps over 2007 and by 40 bps since June and may move out further depending on the balance between the economic outlook and a potential improvement in the credit markets.
Our task is to continue to mitigate any negative effect of increasing property yields by creating further rental growth from the portfolio and so increasing shareholder value.
This is our core skill and whilst we cannot buck the market we should continue to outperform.
Our deliberately chosen modest gearing position and our unsecured funding strategy gives us the financial flexibility to react quickly and effectively to new opportunities in the markets where we specialise.
We remain confident with our positioning at this stage in the economic cycle and the prospects for the business going forward.
Tim Wheeler Chief Executive 1 IPD UK Annual Industrial Index.
