CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEmENT We have a portfolio of the highest quality which benefits from exposure to two sectors in both the UK and France.
John Richards I believe that recent months have demonstrated the benefit We recognise that the decisions we make affect how people live, work of Hammersons approach to real estate.
Our strategy is to invest and spend their leisure time.
What we build and how we build it have in and develop high quality assets that will produce good income a lasting impact on the environment.
We take these responsibilities growth over the medium term.
seriously in planning new developments, in our approach to managing and improving our existing assets, and in the relationships we have Over the last decade we have created a portfolio of major regional with those affected by or involved in our business.
shopping centres in both the UK and France and a substantial retail parks business.
During the same period we have been an active We endeavour to provide an attractive working environment, an developer of prime office buildings in London and Paris.
This portfolio appropriate remuneration structure and opportunities for our has generated returns well above the benchmark for many years.
people to maximise their potential for career progression.
We place Furthermore, it has proved resilient in the challenging market emphasis on good communication within the Company to ensure environment of recent months.
that employees understand our objectives.
We encourage all employees to become shareholders in Hammerson both through At present, retail property accounts for just over 70% of the groups share-based remuneration and savings schemes.
Regional shopping centres and retail parks have shown retaining skilled staff is vital to the success of our business.
consistent growth over the long term.
In addition, the cost of I have every confidence in Hammersons future.
entry into this sector is high.
Furthermore, the restrictive planning environments, in both the UK and France, limit the supply of new schemes, which helps to underpin shopping centre and retail park values.
As importantly, we have built excellent relationships with retailers, a good reputation amongst city councils and an unrivalled pipeline of future retail development opportunities.
The office sector, by contrast, displays more volatility than the retail sector.
This has enabled Hammerson to generate good returns by exploiting the market cycles.
As in our retail business, we have John Richards, Chief Executive experienced teams which have consistently demonstrated their 5 March 2008 ability to acquire, develop and let high quality properties.
We are continuing to invest in our current major development programme and progress several of the schemes in our longer term development pipeline.
This pipeline has been secured at what we believe to be a modest cost considering the opportunities that it will present for Hammerson to generate growth well into the future.
We have considerable flexibility over the timing of the individual projects which will be advanced in the light of anticipated market conditions.
This photograph was taken in a risk-assessed area.
