Chief Executives review 2007 was an excellent year.
There was good progress integrating existing and newly acquired businesses, and further investment in technology which aims to deliver leading edge products whose future success can drive revenue growth.
Introduction Follow-on orders were received for This section in conjunction with the the F A-22 Radar, Electronic Warfare Directors report addresses the EW and Communication, Navigation requirements of the statutory business and Identification systems, as well as review, to provide a fair review of the the Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided business of the Group and an analysis Missile AARGM, F-18 Radar & EW of development and performance during systems, and the F-16 E F. Follow on 2007 and the position at the year end.
orders were also received for On Board Inert Gas Generating System for the Overall business performance C-17 aircraft with new contracts for 2007 was an excellent year, with the CH-53K helicopter and VH-71 increased levels of new business across Presidential helicopter.
Highlights the Group and growth in the order book.
This provides visibility and increases The Groups High Gain SATCOM 2007 was an excellent confidence for the future.
antenna, for use in cockpit communication and passenger internet applications, year The order book for the Technology has been selected by Rockwell Collins Divisions at 0.8bn, and Cobham and Boeing for the 787, 747-8 and Recent acquisitions Aviation Services at 1.0bn, increased 777 programmes.
strengthen position in strongly, with the order book for Aviation Services now extending to 2027.
Cobham was selected by L-3 higher growth markets Communications to supply the US Navy The proportion of revenue generated with a comprehensive Cobham cockpit Strong balance sheet by the Group from the USA increased suite of avionics equipment for the TH-57 for further strategic to 47% and remains a primary driver training helicopter retrofit programme.
Cobham opportunities is increasing its focus on a number of In the first quarter an agreement worth faster growth countries and regions, up to AUS$300m was secured to Strategy implementation including the Middle East and India.
operate Qantaslinks entire operational is on track fleet of 11 B717 aircraft for five years.
Operational improvements are leading to increased levels of profitability Major programmes which have enabled further investment First deliveries have been made to in technology, facilities and talent EADS-CASA for the Royal Australian management.
For the first time, Air Force A330 Multi-Role Tanker and recruitment activities in the USA and Transport MRTT aircraft marking UK for graduates were coordinated the delivery of Cobhams 1,000th air Group wide.
The same 90X pod Group revenues type, developed under Company funded Progress has also been made with research and development, is offered 1 respect to corporate social responsibility.
for the UK FSTA and the US Northrop 5 Several targets set for 2010 have already Grumman KC-45A solutions.
The telescopic refuelling probe for the 3 Key contracts V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft entered Orders and sales for High Mobility full rate production with a multi-year 2 Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle buy contract for deliveries to 2017.
2007 2006 USA 47% 46% Improved Restraint Systems have 2 Mainland Europe 17% 16% been exceptionally strong, with an Full rate production commenced on the 3 Australia 12% 12% installed base of 100,000 vehicles.
BRU-61 A Small Diameter Bomb weapons 4 UK 13% 15% 5 Rest of World 11% 11% carriage system, with the award of the Lot 4 contract from Boeing.
Full rate 5 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chief Executives review continued production also commenced on systems on pages 18 to 22.
However, performance for Tranche 2 of the Eurofighter Typhoon Company funded R&D increased to is addressed at business reviews.
aircraft following the award of a contract 55.0m representing some 6.3% of the from BAE Systems for Saudi Arabia.
This is Voluntary staff turnover in the Group steadily approaching the medium-term during 2007, which is defined as turnover Cobham now has well established target of 7%.
excluding retirements and redundancies, positions on the F A-22 tactical fighter with was 10%.
More than fifty percent of over 150 microwave modules per aircraft The total number of reportable this movement is accounted for by in production and almost 100 modules injuries reduced from 73 to 54.
Fifty two business units Cobham Aviation per aircraft already in development for percent of the injuries related to three Services Australia and Cobham Defence the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
specific categories and training and risk Electronics Systems San Diego.
assessment are focused on these areas.
In Australia, exceptional demand for pilots Cobhams businesses in France Further detail is on page 23. in the Asia Pacific region caused above capitalised on excellent opportunities normal turnover and in San Diego, there for the sale of avionics and precision Cobham continues to support customer is a shortage of highly skilled defence engineered components into Airbus, supplier management initiatives, electronics engineers.
This is a world Eurocopter and other OEMs.
including the UK MoDs key supplier wide issue for the industry.
assessment programme, achieving a Key Performance Indicators top three position for the first time.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Key Performance Indicators KPIs A single approach to measuring customer Defence spending below are used to monitor progress satisfaction across the Group has More than fifty percent of the Groups in implementing the Groups strategic not been identified, due to the large business is defence related, selling objectives.
The first three measures variation in contract types across the products and services directly and are addressed fully in the Finance Review business and customer approaches to indirectly primarily to governments.
Key performance indicators Results Strategic objectives Performance 2007 2006 indicator Definition actual actual Target 1 2 3 4 5 6 Technology Organic revenue growth represents the growth division organic of technology division companies for the period High growth they are within the Groups control, translated single at constant exchange rate 13.2% 5.8% digit Underlying EPS Underlying profit after tax divided by the High growth average number of shares in issue at constant single translation exchange rates 15.8% 10.2% digit Operating cash Operating cash flow after capex and R&D as a conversion percentage of trading profit, excluding profit from joint ventures 81.1% 84.3% 80% PV investment Company funded investment in R&D as a 7% percentage of the five technology division mid revenues 6.3% 6.0% term Staff safety The total number of reportable injuries and other occurrences per 100,000 employees 548 720 800 1.
Be a leading subsystems supplier with a comprehensive range of distinctive technologies 2.
Be in the top three in each of our chosen markets 3.
Grow faster organically than the markets in which we operate 4.
Materially enhance growth through strategic acquisitions 5.
Develop a global market presence with a unified brand and identity 6.
Have an efficient organisation with a high performance culture and motivated people 6 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Defence spending depends on a natural hedge against US dollar and Outlook and future prospects complex mix of political considerations, other currency denominated assets and Cobham has had a year of accelerated budgetary constraints and the ability earnings from overseas subsidiaries.
double digit organic revenue growth, of the armed forces to meet specific The Group has a policy of managing double digit improvement in underlying threats and perform certain missions.
12 months of potential transactional earnings and strong cash generation.
Defence spending may fluctuate from exposure on a rolling three month basis, It is well positioned to benefit from the year to year as a consequence.
together with exposures for firm longinvestment it has made in technology term contracts.
Cobham intends Government contracts to continue to focus on revenue and The governments of the UK and USA Acquisitions earnings growth through increased are the Groups largest end customers.
Cobham actively seeks strategic investment in PV, focus on sales and Any significant disruption or deterioration acquisitions, which may involve risks marketing and the development of in the relationship with these governments that might have a material impact on employees.
The Group is determined and a corresponding reduction in the Group.
These risks are mitigated to take advantage of the exciting government contracts would reduce by extensive due diligence and, opportunities presented by its new the Groups revenues.
Cobham has where practicable, by representations, consolidated divisional organisation placed additional emphasis on key warranties and indemnities by the and, as a result of these changes, account management as part of its vendors and a rigorous approval process.
aspires to outperform current organic divisional consolidation.
Cobhams The markets we operate in business efficiency programme, to Market access The Aerospace and Defence markets identify integration and other cost Many of the products the Group designs continue to exhibit strong growth savings, will continue and will provide and manufactures for military or dual use and with this growth, demand for the funds for reinvestment into PV and are considered to be of national strategic Groups products and services has other growth enablers.
interest and are subject to licensing, never been higher.
export controls and other restrictions.
The Group has also made sound Changes could have a material adverse The US defence market is strong progress in the execution of its effect on the Group.
Formal systems and and their process for procurement acquisition strategy since the start of policies are in place to ensure adherence is well documented, which provides 2007, agreeing to buy five high quality to regulatory requirements and to identify good visibility.
The general consensus businesses for approximately US$750m any restrictions that could adversely is that the US defence market can in total.
Cobham retains considerable impact the Group.
continue to grow: with 2008 likely financing capacity and remains confident to be a record year with a budget of that it can complete further acquisitions Fixed price contracts over $700bn.
However, The Group has reduced its exposure to it will only continue to pursue its fixed priced design and development In commercial aerospace, which covers acquisition strategy where this creates contracts which, in general, carry civil, regional jets and general aviation, value for shareholders.
higher risk than fixed price production order backlogs are at an all time high.
To help mitigate contractAirlines are still forecasting more orders Given the strength of Cobhams order related risks and uncertainties, the and air traffic miles are still increasing.
book and the healthy state of the Groups Groups Lifecycle Management process markets, the Board is confident of is being progressively applied to bids The faster growth markets, such achieving its growth targets in 2008. and contracts across the Group.
as India, the Middle East and South Korea provide exciting opportunities for Currency exchange rates organic growth.
The UK defence market The global nature of the Groups is less robust with continued pressure business means it is exposed to on an already weak defence budget.
volatility in currency exchange rates.
It This is unlikely to improve in the near is Cobhams policy to hold a significant or mid term.
Cobham has less than 5% proportion of its borrowings in foreign of its product revenues with the UK currency, principally US dollars, as a defence market.
7 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
