06 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives statement Over the last 18 months we have tightened 35 million of base estate profit Driving performance our strategy, simplified the business to focus growth driven by like for like revenue Through the MAP process we have on our core food and support services offer growth and cost efficiencies delivered good quality organic by selling non-core businesses and have revenue growth, driven the operating considerably reduced our risk profile by Driving like for like revenue growth: exiting high risk or volatile businesses.
margin forward and significantly MAP 1 Client sales and marketing: increased operating profit.
We have addresses driving like for like revenue through Our strong operating performance is being client pricing strategies and growing client achieved this through better quality driven by concentrating on the five key profit volumes, for example: through additional new business and retention, a greater drivers of MAP, our operating framework, services, such as: cleaning, portering, reception which is now embedded within our business.
focus on like for like growth and and concierge.
Each MAP component has its own set of key improved cost efficiencies.
Performance is MAP 2 Consumer sales and marketing: on capital expenditure and working reviewed with country management teams focuses on developing our retail philosophy in capital has resulted in a step change both monthly and in our detailed business order to increase participation and spend per reviews.
Together these give greater visibility in the delivery of free cash flow.
head, for example: extending our offer to of country performance, enable us to respond include breakfast and Grab & Go concepts.
more quickly to opportunities and changes in our markets and ensure that our businesses Driving cost efficiencies: are constantly focused on profitable organic MAP 3 Cost of food: addresses cost growth.
efficiencies through a systematic approach to menu planning, purchasing and supply chain, MAP has enabled us to deliver 101 million and unit processes.
of constant currency operating profit growth through: MAP 4 Unit costs: we spend nearly 5.5 billion per year on unit costs and we have been 30 million of net new business managing this through: labour productivity growth driven by better quality new and scheduling: control of labour costs: and business and retention in-unit overhead opportunities.
MAP 1 Client sales and marketing: 36 million of above unit overhead achieved through better targeted businesses, savings after allowing for inflation tighter contracts and sharper contract evaluation.
Included among our new business MAP 5 Above unit overheads: we spend wins: Asda in the UK: The House of 0.8 billion on above unit overheads per year.
Representatives, Dell and DreamWorks in The savings have been achieved through: the US: Continental in Germany: and Shell management reorganisation: consolidated across Europe.
back office functions: change management processes: and tightened control of discretionary spend.
Richard Cousins Group Chief Executive 07 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Food cost inflation Processes and people Strategy and the future We spend around 3.5 billion a year on food.
Our new monthly reporting processes and Looking back over the achievements of the We estimate that for last year we have seen regular business reviews with country last 18 months, strategically, we have defined about a one percentage point increase in the management teams ensure that we are all a clearer focused strategy and launched MAP.
To put this into context each constantly focused on the management and We have made good progress in developing one percentage point of food cost inflation performance of the five MAP value drivers.
our support services business and we have adds about 35 million to the total cost base Our country managing directors are now fully simplified the business by exiting non-core of 9.7 billion.
This is before taking into empowered to run their businesses, operating businesses such as SSP, Selecta, Hotels and account that around one third of our within a clearly defined MAP operating other non-core assets.
We have also reduced contracts are cost plus.
We believe that our framework.
the number of countries in which we operate basket of goods is currently experiencing and considerably reduced our risk profile.
market increases of some 4% to 5%.
The new measures have also led to tighter discipline and sounder governance.
Approval We believe we now have a focused and In terms of its impact, most of the processes have been strengthened and transparent business model which will geographies in which we operate and most remuneration policies reviewed.
The generate significant opportunities to grow food categories have seen some inflation.
Corporate Responsibility Committee, a the top line organically, improve margins However, the larger double digit inflationary subcommittee of the Board, continues and grow profitability and generate significant increases have been in dairy, rice and pasta.
to oversee all aspects of health and food cash flow.
We believe we are entering a new Together these categories account for only safety, environmental impacts, governance phase of sustainable value creation.
about 10% of the Groups spend on food.
There will be no change in our core Food price inflation is not a new phenomenon.
Over the past 18 months we have made strategy as we enter the next phase of our We have managed it well for many years and significant management changes at a Board, development.
We remain very excited by continue to do so, but now, through the MAP Executive Committee, Group head office and the prospects for growth with significant framework, with greater intensity.
The specific country leadership level.
We have put in place outsourcing potential in our core food and actions we are taking to address food inflation succession planning and are focusing on support service markets.
We estimate that fall into three categories: purchasing and management development to ensure that outsourcing growth in the foodservice market supply chain efficiencies: unit cost efficiencies we are developing our leadership strength valued at 150 billion is at least 5% per including menu re-engineering: client and for the future.
The support services market is larger consumer price increases.
than the foodservices market and growing The introduction of MAP and the removal at a faster rate.
Operationally we will stay So, in conclusion, food price inflation is well of divisional management structures have focused on MAP and embed it deeper into understood and being acted upon.
Crucially, resulted in greater transparency across the organisation.
The drive for like for like despite the inflation we have seen this year, the organisation.
We now have greater growth and increased operational efficiencies we have been able to hold our gross margins management strength at both country will also continue.
From this we will expect steady through the combination of cost and head office level and this new global further significant cash flow generation.
leadership team has been central to driving the improved performance.
Richard Cousins Group Chief Executive Map Driving profitable growth 28 November 2007 Client sales New business and marketing Market development, good quality new business Consumer sales and marketing Like for like price and volume growth more Base estate services, retention, and innovative offers Cost of food Cost efficiencies purchasing, menu planning, supply chain and in-unit processes Labour productivity, labour and in-unit cost control Unit costs Above unit overheads Simplified organisation, control of discretionary spend Above unit overheads 08 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives statement continued MAP 1 Client sales and marketing Driving like for like revenue In response to our clients The size and depth of our client base and the MAP 1 focuses on delivering loyalty of our clients reflect the quality and needs we have developed a profitable growth from existing scope of the services we provide, and we are strong capability in a selected and new clients and developing proud to count organisations that are leaders range of support services in their markets as our clients.
our penetration in our chosen that complement our core markets.
The focus over the last 12 months and going foodservice offer.
forward is to improve the discipline with Growing our markets which we manage our existing client We continue to see growth in our core relationships and improve the performance contract foodservice market.
We see exciting of our contract base.
To achieve this we have growth in every sector, especially Healthcare focused on the following areas: and Education, driven by innovations such as Steamplicity, and in a growing Sports Ensuring that we have the right contract & Leisure market where we have had terms in place that accurately reflect the great success in winning contracts for services we are being paid to provide and prestigious events and major venues, such that we have the appropriate review as The O2 in London, the largest sports and processes and controls in place to monitor entertainment complex in Europe, Kruger service levels, client satisfaction and price National Park in South Africa and the indexation, the latter being vitally Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre important in managing through ADNEC in the United Arab Emirates.
inflationary cost increases: Extending the services we provide, Our country MAP plans detail our approach for example, adding vending or cleaning to developing each market.
Our global to a foodservice-only site, or increasing the sector forums, supported by our new market number of sites we support, and driving development function, provide the means like for like volume and average spend to identify and respond to emerging market increases in our existing operations: and trends, facilitate the rapid transfer of Proactively reviewing contracts where the best practices from one part of the Group financial and operational performance to another and drive innovation in our does not meet expectations and taking the client offer.
opportunity to renegotiate these to put them on the right basis going forward.
Last year we identified the support services market as an attractive opportunity for a More disciplined new business number of reasons: As we develop our core markets it is vital that International clients management we maintain a healthy new business pipeline, Through our international clients programme we We have an existing capability to build supported by the necessary disciplines to are developing closer relationships with multinational on, with some industry leading expertise ensure that we take on the right business organisations.
They recognise that we have the in certain services and sectors: on the right terms.
We have been putting in geographical coverage and capability to deliver It enables us to respond to an increasing outsourced food and support services to the same place across all our businesses clear guidelines world-class standards, globally and enable them to number of clients who are looking to and training for our sales teams on our key achieve their own global objectives.
bundle services, including foodservice: and contract terms.
This is supported by a robust It complements the service and health approvals process for new business bids at a and safety ethos that has gained us country level and, dependent on the scale our reputation for excellence in the of the opportunity or the level of capital foodservice market.
investment required, review and approval at a Group level.
Our strategy is to develop the support services market in a disciplined way by focusing on selected services, sectors and countries.
Steamplicity market-leading innovation Market-leading innovations like Steamplicity are To give us real competitive advantage in this helping us to open up new segments of our core market we have developed the Compass market sectors.
Already being enjoyed by consumers Service Framework, using the very best in the UK and Europe, Steamplicity, uses patented valve technology to healthily steam-cook meals within knowledge that we can find in the world to minutes, retaining nutritional content and promoting ensure that we can deliver the world-class, wellness and vitality.
Ideal for providing hot meals consistent capability that clients demand.
cooked to order for hospital patients, schools and environments where traditional kitchen space is often restricted.
09 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 MAP 2 Consumer sales and marketing Improved pricing management Our consumer focus In an increasingly retail market we are MAP 2 reflects the importance of taking a more thorough approach to pricing is driving continued having the right offers and retail and are deploying pricing tools and processes innovation in our brands skills to drive growth in consumer to enable our managers to undertake and foodservice offers.
local market basket benchmarking which, volume and spending.
combined with national benchmarking, enables a regular, fact-based pricing review Understanding consumer trends with our clients.
For example, in our UK to drive innovation business our units receive a regular Price Whilst we may be feeding people either in Watch update providing information, based their workplace, at college or in a hospital on high-street benchmarking research.
restaurant, their demand for quality, choice and value are equally as discerning as you Driving volume and spend would find on the high street.
Our focus on A greater understanding of our consumers understanding consumer needs and future enables us to more effectively target offers trends is driving the development and that entice consumers into more repeat visits innovation in our food offers, brands and and encourage them to spend more per visit.
In Healthcare, for example, we have To achieve this we are developing a more led the market with the introduction of retail-focused approach to promotions, selling personalised patient meal ordering, such as skills and merchandising.
In our Business & our Catering to You service, which provides Industry sector this might mean extending the greater flexibility, choice and individual use of the restaurant through different daydietary control.
Developed in the USA, part offers, for example, broadening out from Catering to You has already successfully a lunch time only service to include breakfast.
In Germany, in response to consumer research we have developed a Grab and Go Health, wellbeing and sustainability are offer as an additional service which is now important topics that matter to our generating a like for like volume increase consumers in every sector.
foodservice company we fully understand the responsibility we have in helping Controlling the cash consumers make informed choices about Learning from the retail sector, at the same diet and nutrition.
Our in-house dieticians time as driving increased sales, we have work with our culinary, product development focused on ensuring that we are not losing this and purchasing teams to create menu cash to poor cash handling disciplines, stock programmes that combine menu planning, shrinkage or even theft.
The experience of labelling and promotion, and educational Selling more beverages a considerable number of trial sites for training for our people to deliver food choices In the Czech Republic we have doubled like for our Profit Protection programme in the like beverage sales in our 350 Business & Industry that are safe, nutritious and balanced, and UK has shown that a focus on this area units.
Through understanding consumer behaviours suit the lifestyle and tastes of our consumers.
putting training and processes in place, we identified a significant opportunity to capture For example, in our US Education business, incremental beverage sales by focusing on hydrating supported by the right technology can Eat, Learn, Live is a market leading people better in the workplace.
Key initiatives were lead to sales increases of up to 7%, cash based around expanding day-parts, increasing variety commitment to the health and wellbeing reconciliation improvements of up to 3% and choice and educating the consumer on the of children and students from primary and a significant reduction in cash loss.
Solutions were to increase schools to college.
This holistic approach range and package types, introduce larger pack drives innovations such as Brake for sizes, install incremental equipment coolers and racks, improve merchandising and place hydration Breakfast and Morning Editions providing messages at point of sale.
a healthier start to the day.
In addition we help educate students to recognise and Improved pricing through Value Planning 2,000 of our operating units in the USA are using choose healthier options, provide a nutrition the Value Plan, a simple but highly effective price and physical activity for the curriculum management and benchmarking tool which Healthsmart and support health related provides the framework for setting pricing strategies.
Through the Value Plan we compare unit pricing information against national and local market basket benchmarks and inflation forecasts, to set our target price points for each of our major categories.
This provides our Unit Managers with credible data to develop their own unit pricing plan and set regular pricing reviews with our clients.
Performance is now being tracked through weekly owners reports from each unit, comparing the actual price achieved against our target price for the top selling categories.
Recently developed supporting tools such as mapping the servery and station profitability enable managers to analyse the performance of individual areas of the restaurant.
The impact of the Value Plan is evidenced in like for like sales growth of 5% and an increase of up to 10% in average spend per transaction.
10 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives statement continued MAP 3 Cost of food Leveraging our scale We are addressing food Our approach to purchasing reflects the need We spend over 3.5 billion a to have the right supplier relationships and cost efficiencies through year on food alone.
Our MAP 3 partnerships in place at a local, regional, a systematic approach to objective is to buy the optimal national and international level.
We now menu planning, purchasing have country purchasing teams in place to quality and range of food and and in-unit processes.
drive purchasing efficiencies in support of products to meet the needs of individual country business plans.
For our customers at the lowest example, in the UK we have a programme cost, whilst having the most called 85:10:5, the purpose of which has been to move all of our purchasing spend efficient distribution and into the following categories: in-unit production.
85% spend or greater through approved Managing food cost inflation suppliers: We have held our cost of sales flat throughout 10% spend or less through suppliers of a year in which we have seen food cost unique products or services: and inflation affect most food categories in most 5% spend or less through suppliers who of the countries in which we operate.
The meet specific, local contract requirements.
drivers of inflationary pressures stem from growth in demand, such as population and 85:10:5 provides the right levels of control economic growth, changes in eating habits and compliance combined with the flexibility and the increased use of staple crops for to meet individual contract or service specific bio-fuels, combined with pressure on the needs.
At the same time we are better supply side brought about by reduced leveraging our purchasing volumes by harvests, often caused by extreme weather, moving to a smaller group of suppliers and or the impact of food scares.
a narrower product range, as we have done in countries like Germany where we have Our ability to manage these inflationary consolidated 80% of our purchasing volume pressures is a result of: with 11 suppliers and decreased the number of products from 40,000 to 7,000.
The work we have done to include food cost indexation in our contracts, giving We are also seeing significant benefits in us the contractual right to review pricing compliance, cost control and forecasting with our clients: through more effective menu planning.
Re-engineering our menus to switch food In Brazil, for example, our units have items in response to forecast shortages online access to a centralised menu planning and cost increases: and Trim Trax reducing wastage database and have reduced average meal Continuing to drive greater purchasing The Trim Trax programme has been developed in costs by up to 10%.
efficiencies through supplier rationalisation the US Business & Industry sector to help reduce in-unit food wastage, focusing on the most frequent and compliance.
Reducing in-unit production costs reasons we have identified for production loss overproduction, out-of-date inventory and wastage Another focus area under MAP 3 is reducing in the food preparation itself.
The programme the cost of in-unit meal production.
A key provides some very simple, very visible ways to component of this is reducing food waste, reinforce the message about reducing waste for our targeting wastage in the production process in-unit teams.
One simple, but effective way is giving each member of the food production team their itself, overproduction or incorrectly ordered own individual Trim Trax food waste bin, which has or out-of-date stock.
Programmes such as the volume recorded, categorised and assigned a Trim Trax, which has been trialled in the value each day.
Results are then tracked, with the US Business & Industry and Education team identifying actions to reduce wastage and recognition going to the best performers.
sectors, are providing simple, high impact tools to raise awareness of the issue of wastage with our in-unit teams and embed the disciplines necessary to reduce it.
Reducing supply chain costs Our newly created European Consolidation Centre in Southern Spain has reduced supply chain costs by having fresh produce delivered directly to this facility from our own nominated growers, which we then quality assure and consolidate for dispatch to our distributors in 12 European countries.
By consolidating our spend and buying at source we have significantly improved our buying price, quality and traceability, reduced distribution costs, and reduced the number of lorries on the road.
We received the UK Institute of Grocery Distributions 2007 Food Industry Award for Supply Chain Excellence in recognition of our fresh produce buying strategy.
11 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 MAP 4 Unit costs Effectively managing labour and Improving efficiency and ancillary costs MAP 4 focuses on driving Through MAP we are also exercising better costs in our units is a real cost efficiencies from our control over other labour costs such as opportunity that we are 5.5 billion of unit labour and absenteeism, overtime and third party starting to address.
We have put in place processes and disciplines Improving labour productivity to improve our management of salary and Our objective is always to deliver the right benefit costs and control labour cost inflation.
level of service in the most efficient way These include local sector benchmarking, possible, by ensuring that we have the right a robust process for managing national or number of trained people, performing the sector wage agreements and reviewing right activities in the right place at the right benefits to ensure that those we provide time, and have the flexibility to absorb are competitive with local market practices, increases in volume.
are valued by our people and that, where we use external providers for benefits such With the focus on labour productivity as health insurance, we are leveraging our through MAP we have been deploying tools scale effectively.
and processes across our business to improve our labour optimisation.
These are scalable Along with food costs, we are now including to suit the differing sizes of our operations labour costs as part of our pricing indexation and range from simple unit-based labour models, which drive our pricing strategy, scheduling tools that track and forecast labour product tariffs and which we use in our hours against sales, through to intensive contract pricing review process.
on-site reviews by productivity specialists in our major sites.
These programmes, such Reducing unit overheads as Performance Plus in our US Healthcare Unit overheads are all the remaining nonbusiness, involve detailed time and motion food and non-labour costs associated with studies to analyse labour scheduling and managing our units such as uniforms, linen, efficiency in all areas of the operation, from crockery, laundry cleaning, utilities and food production to mapping front of house occupancy costs where we have them.
service needs against consumer footfall.
This Through good local initiatives and more gives a clear picture of the optimal labour thorough analysis and measurement we hour requirements on a unit level, allowing us have made solid progress in the last year, to adjust rostering and employee hours resulting in a reduction in unit overheads accordingly.
as a percentage of revenue, which we aim Improving efficiency to continue.
With the work that we have been doing Good progress is being made to further reduce costs in this area we continue to deepen our in the UK business.
Unit labour scheduling is now understanding of the key drivers of receiving intensive focus, following the creation of a dedicated business efficiency team.
This team productivity and how to measure, report is directly supporting our operations in embedding and manage it more effectively.
processes and disciplines to more effectively manage labour scheduling, temporary labour, the management of payroll, sickness and holiday in our units and the better usage of reporting tools.
Integral to this is the roll-out of a communication and training programme for all our Unit Managers focusing attention on getting the right people in the right place at the right time in order to maximise sales and improve customer service and productivity.
Effective labour cost management Based on the work done in Australia we have developed tools which are now being used as a global template to more effectively measure and cost labour turnover and the use of agency staff at a country and operating unit level, identifying previous hidden labour costs.
In Australia we have seen a 1.6% reduction in direct labour costs as a result of accurate KPI measurement and the implementation of tailored retention strategies, improved absence management and reduction in agency spend.
12 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives statement continued MAP 5 Above unit overheads In developing countries or those where We are improving overhead we dont have density we have developed As a Group we have 800 successful zone management structures, efficiency by simplifying the million of above unit costs with a single management team overseeing way we run the business associated with managing a cluster of countries within a specific region, and tighter control of for example, Central and Eastern Europe, the business.
our Central Asia, Middle East and Africa on how we create a simpler CAMEA remote site businesses and the organisational model with Nordic region.
fewer layers of management Consolidated back office functions and less bureaucracy.
As part of reducing overlap and duplication we have consolidated common back office Simplifying management structures functions, retaining separate functions only We have made significant inroads in reducing where they are genuinely sector specific.
duplicate layers of management and putting The UK and the USA are good examples of in place simpler, affordable structures where we have created a more streamlined, that give greater transparency through shared services model for HR, reducing cost the business and improve the speed of and improving service to our front-line teams.
To achieve this we have dismantled the previous divisional structure creating a clear line of sight between the businesses and the Group.
This is supported by our new Group financial and non-financial reporting framework which, combined with regular business reviews of country MAP plans, gives us greater visibility and understanding of the underlying performance of each business and makes us better placed to respond to opportunities and risks.
The management teams in our countries are empowered to run and develop their businesses within a light, non-bureaucratic Group framework.
This relies on a culture of openness, honesty and transparency, HR shared services supported by good communication and the To reduce overlap and duplication in its HR support disciplines and good governance expected functions our US business has created a central of a major international group.
Human Resources Service Centre, as a single point of contact on HR related issues for over 85,000 employees.
This has reduced HR overhead costs We have taken a similar approach within by 5% and led to speedier and more effective issue the countries themselves, focusing first resolution, reduced management intervention and on businesses like France, Japan and the improved employee satisfaction.
Netherlands, and reorganised how we manage the business to create much leaner, more effective structures.
