Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Croda believes that to be successful as a company it must act responsibly and with integrity in all areas of its activities.
Croda is committed to its business operations throughout the world being conducted in a manner that is consistent with relevant good practice in relation to social responsibility.
The Company has published its first CSR document alongside the annual report this year.
The images included on the following pages are a selection of those included in the CSR document and exemplify the Company's commitment to CSR.
Chief Executives review 2007 has been another year of extraordinary achievement for Croda.
The business has produced record sales and profits despite one of the most challenging trading environments.
The integration of Uniqema is ahead of target and delivering better than expected synergies and we introduced the highest number of product innovations in our history.
Crodas ability to deliver year-on-year growth is great capital projects with quick and secure returns.
In areas where we can no longer add value we have a testament to the leadership position we have These initiatives also reduce our energy usage and made disposals.
We sold the soap and fatty acid established in the global speciality chemicals market our environmental impact and, even more importantly, business at Klang, Malaysia, the bakery ingredients place.
The business benefits from a robust model make Croda a safer and better place to work all over business at Oldham, UK and also the packaged that is not dependent upon a single market or one the world.
refrigeration lubricant business for a total of 76.8m.
Our diversity, in terms of geography, We will continue to focus our business on market A good part of the resilience of the Croda business product innovation, people and customers, means sectors and products where we can add the most model is due to having thousands of customers in we can be confident in Crodas future prospects value for our customers and our shareholders.
hundreds of territories buying thousands of different and capacity to deliver superior returns.
Our biggest global customer represents For the first time, we are including a comprehensive One of the fundamental ingredients of Crodas just over 4% of turnover and our top ten customers review with our annual report on how we care for all our success is our people and the team has never been represent less than 15%.
In addition, many customers stakeholders and the environment.
In future years we stronger or more committed.
Throughout 2007, buy as many as a hundred different products from expect to include increasing amounts of data to more external pressures were intense, and the tenacity and Croda, which can be used in even more formulations.
As more than 70% resolve of our staff has enabled Croda to overcome They are all designed to add value and performance to of Crodas raw materials are from renewable sources, increased raw material prices, increased energy our customers products.
As a result of the acquisition we start from a strong position of sustainability.
Each costs and a strong currency headwind to post an of Uniqema, we now have many more growing markets year we must do more to reduce our impact on the outstanding set of figures.
and many more potentially interesting technologies.
There are some excellent examples of recent initiatives in the report, including the forest of The acquisition of Uniqema has surpassed our We made good progress in every area of the business 25,000 native trees planted at our headquarters and the expectations.
From the outset our principal objective as we continued our relentless focus on our customers new wind turbine being installed at our Hull site this year.
was to combine the best elements of both companies and on getting fair value for our investments in quality and create one team united under the Croda umbrella.
This ethos was spread across the 2007 was also a year in which we introduced our This has now been done, and the success of our whole business in 2007, enabling us to achieve average new structure of two divisions Consumer Care and Mike Humphrey Group Chief Executive integration and restructuring programme has enabled price increases of 12.3% across all market sectors.
They have different markets us to achieve our original 20m synergy target 12 We continue to refine our product portfolio and reduce but one unified focus to grow profits through constant months ahead of schedule.
Furthermore, we have now the proportion of low value, commodity business, in innovation.
We have consolidated the global marketing identified additional synergies and expect to deliver favour of adding value to our in-house feedstocks.
network which was enlarged by the acquisition of more than 30m by the end of 2008.
We were especially Uniqema and closed six offices, leaving us with a delighted that many of the newly acquired sites have dynamic global technical sales force operating from 43 Croda offices in 36 countries.
This is a truly powerful network and a key reason for our continuing success.
04 Chief Executives review Chief Executives review 05 Chief Croda Brazil sponsored a childrens book on enviromental awareness that was distributed to local Executives review schools in the Amazon region.
The global market for Personal Care continues to We have a strong and dynamic Coatings Additives Consumer Care Industrial Specialities grow at above 1.5 times global GDP, with emerging business, which was refocused in 2007.
New and Following the full integration programme, this sector With our reorganisation now complete, the Industrial countries more than compensating for flatter markets patented technologies based on our expertise in now consists of our global businesses in the following Specialities sector consists of: Base Oleochemicals, in more established zones like the USA.
New active dimers, esters and associated chemistries were markets: Personal Care, Health Care, Home Care Lubricant Additives, Coatings Additives and ingredients from Sederma once again led the way, but well received in many application areas.
our innovation pipeline is very healthy in all other areas major automotive manufacturers reduce their VOC These are growth markets with an increasing need With sales at 535.0m and operating profit of 17.0m, of Personal Care, with many new product opportunities.
emissions and we also helped to put a spring in the for innovation and sustainable ingredients.
We have this divisions progress benefitted from our strong step of a major leisure footwear manufacturer.
A Health Care made good progress in the area of high fully combined the various businesses with a great pricing policy and willingness to walk away from strong research and development team and a new purity lipids with our Puremax seal of approval now deal of success.
Underlying growth was excellent unprofitable business.
Profits increased substantially emphasis on customer needs will support profitable being used globally on more than 14 branded lines.
in 2007, with sales reaching a new high of 351.1m.
over the course of the year and we expect real growth in this growing global business.
We also gained new business for high quality Operating profit was a record 71.7m, reflecting a progress towards our long term margin target of 10% excipients.
The focus on lanolin and derivatives The Polymer Additives business had another good margin of 20.4%.
This is especially pleasing as it in 2008 and beyond.
The large base oleochemicals for wound care and medical skin care resulted in a year, especially in additives for polyolefins, where means we have significantly improved the margins business became profitable in spite of suffering the number of successful new product introductions by Croda is the world leader.
New markets are being of the acquired business.
This was achieved by a brunt of a storm of natural oil cost increases.
The drive for ever higher standards created and new types of plastic require new types combination of focus on value and moving away was a small amount of extra profit from revitalised of purity and efficacy in our Health Care products of lubricants and other additives.
Croda products from the flawed Uniqema distribution model which glycerine prices towards the end of the year, which exactly mirrors the aspirations of our customers are overwhelmingly based on natural feedstocks, gave more margin to the intermediary than to the should continue into at least the first half of 2008. and, more importantly, the end consumer.
utilising and adding value to the base oleochemical producer.
There is more margin to be gained in 2008, Our plans to reduce our base oleochemical footprint building blocks.
as we continue the return to direct selling and direct and add value to the building blocks have started to In Home Care, we focused heavily on demarketing customer relationships.
By walking away from loss making plant unprofitable business whilst introducing new Summary fillers, our factories are now producing better quality products which will offer performance and value Croda set itself tough objectives in 2007 and the products and better customer service.
Relatively to our customers brands.
The consumer-led drive fact that they have been achieved is a credit to the simple investments due on stream over the next for sustainability and biodegradability, coupled entire team.
With Uniqema now fully integrated into two years will reduce our costs of production and with a desire for more natural raw materials our business, Crodas prospects are even brighter energy considerably.
We will continue to challenge our own orthodoxies, and relentlessly innovate to achieve We sold a large part of the Lubricant product portfolio We are delighted to have a vibrant Crop Care business.
further growth in our chosen markets.
Finished lubricants for refrigeration did The agricultural industrys need for biodegradable story is about profitable sustainability.
We are proud not fit our future focus on additives and distracted the adjuvants, which give enhanced active delivery and of our recent achievements, but there is much more team from concentrating on the core business.
Good performance, fits exactly with our re-energised to do in 2008 and beyond.
progress was made with new additives in automotive, strategy in this fast changing market.
The gestation industrial, marine and agricultural lubricants.
A number time for business can be up to three years, due to of our patented technologies are now finding favour demanding test criteria, but it does lead to long term as greener solutions to improve lubrication and valuable business.
We have a world class team in reduce energy usage.
Our in-house special fatty this area and have high hopes for the future, after Mike Humphrey acid and dimer building blocks give us a solid an excellent year in 2007. platform for future progress.
Group Chief Executive Croda has planted 25,000 trees on land surrounding its Cowick Hall head office.
06 Chief Executives review Chief Executives review 07 Employees at our Atlas Point site, Delaware act as mentors to local children.
Rape oil is delivered to our Hull factory by barge.
Financial review Turnover Operating profit 2 1 Underlying turnover increased 3.0% on a constant Continuing operating profit increased 32.0% to currency basis with significant average price increases 88.7m from the 67.2m pro-forma profit achieved outweighing volume reductions as we shed low margin in 2006 7.5m continuing pre-acquisition Uniqema business.
We saw particularly strong turnover growth profit added to last years reported operating profit in November and December.
This increase was achieved despite Natural and sustainable, losses were lower in the second half at 1.7% of turnover.
Like sales, rape seed is an important raw As a result, underlying turnover for the year after profit showed an improving trend throughout the year material source for Croda.
2 currency translation was only 0.6% down on 2006 with increasing revenues boosted by mounting levels at 886.1m.
of synergy from last years acquisition of Uniqema.
Selling prices increased by 9.9% in the first half for For the year, synergies contributed 17.0m We now expect total synergies from the Uniqema Pre-tax profit 1 the continuing businesses.
This increased to 14.8% 2006: 2.0m to profit before tax with an exit run acquisition to exceed 30m by the end of 2008 with Continuing pre-tax profit after charging the full years in the second period, making the average for the year rate over 20m.
Headcount savings were the biggest the extra level of business brought in house from interest on last years acquisition of Uniqema increased 12.3%.
These increases fully recovered the inflationary element of this total at 5.6m followed by savings in ex-Uniqema distributors, further headcount reductions, by 26.7% to 66.5m 2006: 52.5m.
Total pre-tax 1 costs the Company bore in the year and increased distribution and logistics at 2.9m and raw material improved yields and savings in energy and logistics profit increased 37.1% to 74.7m 2006: 54.5m.
margins on products at the bottom end of the portfolio.
Lower IT, insurance, being the main elements.
Earnings per share consultancy and a number of other smaller savings On a divisional basis, Consumer Cares continuing Underlying volumes declined 9.2% over the year as 1 made up the balance.
Earnings per share increased by 28.4% to 37.1p operating margin passed the 20% level even including we improved the quality of the acquired business 2006: 28.9p.
The 33.5% tax rate on continuing Uniqemas initially lower returns.
Profit of 71.7m and shed unprofitable lines.
operations was only marginally higher than 2006 2006: 50.8m gave a 20.4% margin for the year on and we are comfortable that this rate is sustainable We see no change in our long term underlying 351.1m turnover 2006: 264.1m with an improving in the medium term.
revenue growth targets of 2 times global GDP for trend into the second half.
Second half margins were our Consumer Care business and 1.5 times global higher than those achieved by Croda in the first half GDP for Industrial Specialities.
of 2006, before the Uniqema acquisition.
Our target operating margin of 20% for Consumer Care has been achieved.
Industrial Specialities returns were more significantly diluted by the acquisition of Uniqema.
Operating profits of 17.0m represented a 3.2% return on 535.0m turnover 2006: 8.9m and 216.0m respectively.
We have a long term target operating margin in Industrial Specialities of 10% and we expect to Sean Christie make further progress towards this goal in 2008.
Group Finance Director 08 Financial review Financial review 09 16.0 38 36 15.5 34 15.0 32 14.5 30 28 14.0 26 13.5 pence pence 24 13.0 22 12.5 20 18 12.0 16 11.5 Financial review 14 11.0 12 10.5 10 03 04 05 06 07 03 04 05 06 07 Dividends per share Earnings per share Dividend Cash flow pre-exceptional We propose to increase the final dividend by The main underlying driver of cash was EBITDA 11.9% to 10.8p, making a total for the year of 15.75p of 128.4m 2006: 82.1m.
Dividend cover increased Working capital increased significantly during the to 2.4x compared to 2.0x in 2006.
We expect future year due to a number of factors including inflation dividend increases to be more closely aligned to and changing distribution arrangements.
a very strong, sales driven performance through Disposals November into December meant that year end working capital levels were ahead of those normally We sold three businesses in 2007.
Food Services associated with our quietest month.
We made a was sold for 7.4m in June, Klang for 9.8m in number of payments into the pension scheme during September and Refrigerant Lubricants for 59.6m at business.
We already exceed the target in our the year totalling 70m following the acquisition Balance sheet the end of October.
We made a net profit on disposal Consumer Care business and the biggest incremental of Uniqema.
Capital expenditure was a little ahead of 41.0m after tax from these businesses in addition At 219.7m, our net assets are much higher than gains should come in Industrial Specialities.
of depreciation at 38.1m with a number of fast to an operating profit pre-disposal of 8.2m.
2006 as the increase in net debt was outweighed by payback Uniqema projects being sanctioned.
the reduction in the pension deficit.
We aim to grow earnings per share at a higher Exceptional items rate than underlying sales growth and have We had a net cash inflow from disposals of 75.7m Financial KPIs The main exceptional item was the 41.0m profit comfortably beaten the 5-10% target in recent years.
and spent 17.5m on restructuring post the acquisition 2007 2006 Target after tax on disposal discussed above.
All this increased net debt by 36.1m Return on sales 10.0% 7.5% 15% Growth coupled to Return on Invested Capital ROIC There was an additional 5.6m exceptional operating to 366.0m.
EPS growth is the driver of shareholder value.
The acquisition of expense, mainly relating to additional termination before exceptional items 28.4% 12.9% 5-10% Uniqema reduced the ROIC, but also reduced our Pensions payments to ex-Uniqema distributors reflecting the ROIC post tax 8.1% 6.9% WACC Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC since Our deficit has fallen sharply as we have agreed the extra turnover and profit being repatriated to Croda the deal was predominantly financed through debt.
various transfers due from ICI post the acquisition of as part of the higher synergy expectation.
Net debt EBITDA 2.8x 3.3x 3x Uniqema and we continued to contribute to the fund EBITDA interest cover 5.8x 4.2x 4x We employ two widely used ratios to measure our at a higher level than the charge to profits.
Both net debt EBITDA and 2006 pro-forma full year Uniqema EBITDA interest cover are ahead of target in 2007.
Rising bond yields reduced our liabilities leaving the We have a number of demanding financial KPI year end deficit at 59.3m 2006: 159.9m.
Within 1 Before exceptional items targets and we have made good progress on all 2 this total our UK final salary scheme has a deficit of Continuing operations adjusted for the acquisition of Uniqema of these during the year.
Return on sales has increased to 10% in 2007 versus 7.5% on a like-for-like basis in 2006.
Before dilution from the acquisition of Uniqema, Croda beat its 15% target and we would expect steady progress towards Sean Christie this goal as we re-position and integrate the acquired Group Finance Director 10 Financial review Financial review 11
