DIRECTORS REPORT CHAIRMAN & CHIEF EXECUTIVE IN CONVERSATION WE CURRENTLY HAVE OVER 50% UNIT MARKET SHARE IN BLUETOOTH AND AROUND 60% OF ALL DESIGN WINS.
Ron Mackintosh, Chairman Left Joep van Beurden, CEO and Ron Mackintosh, Chairman 4 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 During 2007, we welcomed both a new Chairman and a new Dell, LG, Motorola, Nokia, Samsung, Sony, TomTom and many Chief Executive to CSR.
Ron Mackintosh Chairman and Joep more utilise our technology to increase the consumer appeal van Beurden CEO came together to reflect on the last 12 months of their products.
Without CSR, many of the great technological and to share their enthusiasm for the months and years ahead.
strides in wireless communications that have been made in recent years simply wouldnt have happened.
Ron Mackintosh RM Joep, I think youll agree that this has been a solid 12 months for CSR.
The financials show strong growth JvB What really excites me is that were just at the start.
The world revenue up by 20% with underlying diluted earnings per share is going wireless where there are wires there are opportunities up by 13% to $0.94.
We delivered what we promised.
Were only at the very beginning of what is a revolution.
CSR has clearly taken leadership and we have the ability and Joep van Beurden JvB Its an impressive performance, and its passion to maintain that position.
We have a huge opportunity matched by the strong long-term opportunities we have identified.
in front of us: to use our products, our proven expertise and our I joined only a few weeks prior to the end of the year, but I knew investment in emerging technologies in order to help our CSR and had always admired the way the Company led its sector.
customers take the world wireless.
However, I have to admit that I was surprised at the extent of that leadership and the strengths that lie behind it.
RM What have been your initial impressions of CSR?
RM Ive been a non-executive director at CSR since 2004 and JvB First, the quality, commitment and passion of our people.
Ive seen the business strengthen year-on-year.
We currently have Our R&D teams are without equal.
Time and time again, they raise over 50% unit market share in Bluetooth and around 60% of all the technological bar and extend our lead over the competition design wins.
We work with many of the worlds top names, not not only in Bluetooth, where we continue to reduce cost and only in the cellular markets of handsets and headsets but also in power consumption while adding, for example, GPS capability, non cellular sectors of music players, automotive, PC and gaming.
but also in Wi-Fi, Ultra Wideband UWB and Near Field Communication NFC.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 5 DIRECTORS REPORT CHAIRMAN & CHIEF EXECUTIVE IN CONVERSATION continued Secondly, Ive been very impressed by our world-class operations and delivery track record.
We operate at the highest WE ALREADY SUPPLY level when it comes to production quality, consistency and order THE TOP FIVE HANDSET fulfilment.
Customers have huge respect for our technological lead, but they also know that they can trust us to deliver on MANUFACTURERS AND time and on budget.
We expect to deliver CSRs one billionth Bluetooth chipset in Spring 2008, and that speaks volumes OUR SUCCESS IN THIS for our sustained quality performance.
SPACE IS PULLING Most importantly, though, we have a phenomenal product roadmap that will be the engine for the long-term growth of THROUGH SALES IN the business.
RM CSR currently focuses on three elements to deliver that roadmap and drive that growth: Bluetooth in the cellular markets Joep van Beurden, CEO of phone handsets and headsets: Bluetooth beyond those markets, in non cellular markets such as MP3 players, automotive and gaming and beyond Bluetooth for example in Wi-Fi and GPS.
Do you see that changing in the coming year?
JvB Not in any significant way.
Handsets are extremely important to us.
We already supply the top five handset manufacturers and our success in this space is pulling through sales in headsets.
Were also seeing major volumes in MP3 players and gaming.
Bluetooth is an important wireless connection technology, and we see significant additional opportunity in adjacent wireless technologies such as FM radio, Wi-Fi, GPS, UWB and NFC.
These products will continue to account for the majority of our R&D investment.
Deepening and widening the business will be the key theme for the coming months and years.
Well maintain and exploit our core strengths in Bluetooth adding exciting new capabilities such as GPS, Wi-Fi and UWB.
RM Id like to put on record my thanks to three people who departed from CSR during 2007.
John Whybrow was an excellent Chairman and successfully oversaw an impressive period of growth for CSR following the IPO in 2004 and played an important part in supporting the transition to establishing CSR as a public company.
John Scarisbrick made a substantial contribution to CSR, first as a non-executive director since 2004 and then as Chief Executive Officer, and Glenn Collinson a co-founder made an invaluable contribution to establishing CSR as a world leader.
On behalf of the Board, I wish them well for the future.
Revenue $000 2007 848,622 704,695 2006 2005 486,531 253,146 2004 6 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 JvB Chris Ladas, our Senior Vice President of Operations, All of this reinforces our confidence in our long-term outlook.
was appointed to the Board effective 1 January 2008.
This underscores Chris contribution to the Company and emphasises For the short-term, we are fully aware of the current economic the importance we place on quality and operations.
Chris has climate and consumer sentiment.
We are seeing a run-down almost 40 years of semiconductor experience and he and his in customer inventory levels, particularly in China, and customer team have been responsible for our world-class manufacturing caution on their own sales outlook.
For these reasons, we believe and testing operations since May 2000. the first half revenues for 2008 will be broadly flat against last year: but the visible pipeline of new product introductions leads us to People are hugely important to CSR.
Its thanks to the energy expect modest year-on-year revenue growth in the second half and expertise of our R&D experts, commercial organisation, of this year.
support teams and managers that we can help our customers bring so much productivity, enjoyment and new experiences There is no doubt, however, that we face very considerable growth to consumers across the world.
opportunities in the medium and longer term for our Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and GPS products.
Our new product development pipeline RM Its something of a business clich, but people will always is strong with exciting products that are reinforcing our reputation be our most important asset.
From Cambridge to Tokyo, for innovation, our technical lead and our ability to deliver Bangalore to Shanghai we have over 1,000 people who worked substantial added value to our customers.
tirelessly throughout the year to create the momentum that leaves us very well-positioned to continue to lead developments in For example, we have working GPS and Bluetooth silicon back wireless connections.
from the foundry and we have introduced our MusiCore MP3 chip.
End-customers want their mobile handsets to be MP3 JvB I believe were in one of the most exciting segments of the players: but currently can only find phones with short playback technology world.
At CSR, theres a real hunger to make the most times and mediocre audio quality.
MusiCore gives consumers of our opportunities and I very much look forward to playing my around 100 hours music playback on a typical mobile handset part in the next phases of the Companys long-term success.
with audio quality comparable to leading edge MP3 players.
It cuts the electronic bill of materials by about $2 for our customers.
RM With the market opportunities, the strengths in our people and our technology that we have discussed, the long term outlook We have also just taped out our BlueCore7 combination chip for CSR looks encouraging.
What is your view on the immediate which combines Bluetooth, FM transmit, FM receive, Ultra Low future for 2008, particularly in view of what are evolving global Power Bluetooth and GPS RF on a single die.
Our plans for the longer term, specifically our ambition to grow our JvB We enter 2008 with strong market share, a leading position revenue to $2 billion by 2012 will be the product of an operational in all segments and a pipeline of innovative new products such as assessment currently being conducted and which will be reported MusiCore that are on-track and exciting in their potential.
We have previously acknowledged that there would be a loss of I joined CSR because the world is going wireless where there are market share in one top tier phone OEM which would affect 2008. wires, there are opportunities for CSR.
With our current product We have already taken steps to address this and expect to recover line-up, compelling product roadmap and strong design-in this share in 2009.
In all our other segments, we are confident of pipeline, I have every confidence that CSR will capitalise on the broadly maintaining market share during this year.
We have also opportunities and make further substantial progress in the current made good progress at another top tier phone OEM who we have financial year and beyond.
