Chief Executives review a strong performance by the branded The sale of the business was consistent cheese business and an increase in the with our strategy to focus on branded pension interest credit of 7.3 million to and added value products and also with 9.5 million.
After deducting 10.0 million the industry trend for greater ownership of of exceptional items, 2.7 million of bulk processing assets by milk producers.
acquired intangible amortisation and The Group is now focused on developing 3.2 million of tax on joint ventures, profit its branded and added value cheese before tax was up 68% at 64.6 million business which overall has made good 2006: 38.4 million.
Exceptional items progress this year.
It has benefited from include a further 7.0 million non-cash strong Cathedral City growth and impairment charge on the assets of our improved returns from whey.
stilton and speciality cheese business.
In January 2007 we made a Adjusted earnings per share increased significant move into Continental Europe by 26% to 48.7 pence per share 2006: with the acquisition of the St Hubert 38.7 pence.
spreads business from Uniq plc for Group net debt as defined in the 370 million approximately 248 million.
Financial review as at 31 March 2007 was St Hubert has strong brands and leading 170.8 million higher at 451.0 million market positions in both France and Italy.
2006: 280.2 million reflecting, in The acquisition increases the proportion Overview particular, the net impact of the three of Dairy Crest profits deriving from brands I was delighted to be appointed Chief major transactions.
and hence, together with the cheese Executive at the beginning of 2007 after disposal, will significantly improve the more than 15 years with the Group.
This Delivering on strategy Groups quality of earnings.
The move is a particularly exciting time to be The Groups strategy continues to be into Continental Europe should provide leading the Dairy Crest team as we have focused on growing its branded business a platform for future growth and as part significantly reshaped the Group during together with the value added elements of this, we are looking at operational and the year through three important of its key retailer relationships.
In addition commercial opportunities between transactions the acquisitions of we have continued to act as a consolidator St Hubert and our existing UK spreads St Hubert and Express Dairies and the in the doorstep delivery market where business.
In the short period of time disposal of the substantial majority of our we have the industry leading business since the acquisition St Hubert has retailer brand cheese operations.
During 2006 07 we made made good progress.
In particular transactions are in line with Dairy Crests considerable moves to reshape the St Hubert Omega 3 continues to grow strategy to invest in branded and addedGroup in line with this strategy: strongly which has driven an increase value activities, maintain its position as In August 2006 we completed the in overall market share in France.
the UKs leading doorstep delivery acquisition of the Express Dairies business All these transactions are expected service and reduce the Groups exposure from Arla Foods UK plc for 33 million to be earnings accretive in 2007 08. to commodity markets.
Alongside these important The acquisition included a substantial New products focused on health transactions, which have delivered strong property portfolio comprising 76 At Dairy Crest we recognise the important profits growth, we have seen good sales distribution depots freehold and leasehold relationship between a balanced diet, growth from some of our key brands and dairies in Liverpool and Nottingham.
We are including Cathedral City, Country Life As a result Dairy Crest is the UKs market committed to helping consumers make Spreadable, FRijj and St Hubert Omega 3. leading doorstep and middle ground informed choices about the food they business with broad coverage across eat.
We also support the Department of Financial results England and Wales.
The benefits from Healths Food & Health Action Plan goals The Group achieved full year revenue this acquisition are being delivered to plan of reducing salt, fat and added sugar in from continuing operations including our and we remain on track to deliver products without compromising on food share of joint ventures revenue of synergies which are expected to peak at safety, nutrition, quality or taste.
Accordingly much of our current Adjusted profit before tax on a In October 2006 we completed the research and new product development continuing basis, including share of predisposal of the substantial majority of our activities are focused on developing our tax profits from joint ventures and before retailer brand cheese operations to First health agenda.
We have a pipeline exceptional items and amortisation of Milk Limited for 58.3 million.
The market of product launches of healthier variants acquired intangibles was up 24% at for retailer brand and commodity cheese of some of our most popular pillar brands.
This is competitive and this business had In February we launched Cathedral City reflects the benefit of the acquisitions, delivered cyclical returns for the Group.
While offering all the taste and 4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 Dairy for Consumer facts health Dairy is seen as an add up to dairy essential component of good health sector growth Consumer research has identified three essential facts about dairy.
These facts underpin the key consumer drivers which will help to unlock the true potential of the dairy category.
Dairy for life Dairy for Dairy for now pleasure People consume People enjoy dairy products consuming every day dairy products versatility of standard mature cheddar it Commitment which aims to work with significant funds for the corporate charity contains 30% less fat.
In May 2007 we WRAP Waste and Resources Action partner, Leukaemia Research.
We are have launched Country Life Spreadable Programme to deliver absolute reductions particularly proud that we reached our Lighter.
Later this year further healthier in packaging waste by 2010 and identify target for the charity of 1 million in April developments are planned for both ways to tackle the problem of food waste.
2007 raised by superb teamwork and Utterly Butterly and Clover.
For example we have recently been individual endeavour.
Now looking to the involved in the launch of the worlds first future, and hopefully building on the Doorstep opportunity plastic milk bottle using recycled material success of the past, I am delighted to Following the acquisition of Express for Marks & Spencer.
We were particularly announce that our new charity partner Dairies last summer Dairy Crest has a pleased that this won a Gold award at for 2007 onwards will be Make-A-Wish doorstep customer base of approaching the recent packaging industry awards.
Foundation UK which grants wishes 1.6 million households supplied via its to children and young people fighting unique delivery network.
We have been People life-threatening illnesses.
reviewing a number of new proposals We continue to be supported by a to maximise the opportunity that this talented, dedicated and loyal workforce Outlook customer base represents.
To that effect, whose skills and efforts have been This financial year was an active one in we will shortly commence the trial of a instrumental in achieving our results this which we have significantly reshaped the number of new service initiatives in year.
During the year we were also Group and continued to drive selected depots within our network.
pleased to welcome our new colleagues performance.
We have a full programme from Express Dairies and St Hubert of new product launches focused on Environmental initiatives taking our total workforce to healthier variants of our leading brands We have long recognised that a approximately 8,500 together with 1,600 and we intend to support these with an commitment to protecting the environment franchisees.
We endeavour to support increased level of marketing.
Trading is an integral part of managing the our workforce with a strong commitment at the start of the new financial year is business.
As well as initiatives to reduce to training and development at all levels.
the carbon emissions from our We are also in the process of establishing manufacturing sites, Dairy Crest is a set of formal corporate values, which working at the forefront of dairy industry will underpin the way we work in developments to reduce packaging waste.
In line with all of our major customers we Our employees have also found the Mark Allen Chief Executive have recently signed up to the Courtauld energy and enthusiasm to raise 21 May 2007 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 5
