BUSINESS REVIEW 08 Chief Executives Review OUR STRATEGY FOR FUTURE SUCCESS CONTINUES TO FOCUS ON THREE KEY AREAS: 1 GROWING OUR BUSINESS-FOCUSED MEDIA INTO STRONG LEADERSHIP POSITIONS 2 CONTINUING TO INVEST IN OUR NEWSPAPER AND PURE PLAY DIGITAL BUSINESSES 3 RUNNING OUR BUSINESSES FASTER CHARLES SINCLAIR INTRODUCTION takes as given the controlling familys wish CHIEF EXECUTIVE This Business Review is addressed to the that the Groups investments will be media members of the Company to help them businesses: be operated with a view to assess how the Directors have performed sustaining good medium long-term their duty to promote the success of the returns: and be financed and managed on Company, as set out in the new Companies a prudent risk reward basis.
It is framed, having in mind the to have a long timeframe to investment principles and guidelines for Operating and maturity and realisation, provided the Financial Reviews published by the UK business in question is progressing well, OUR STRATEGY OF INVESTING Accounting Standards Board in January meeting milestones and creating value.
FOR THE LONG-TERM GROWTH OF THE BUSINESS HAS 2006.
It describes the main operational RESULTED IN ANOTHER and financial factors underpinning the NATURE OF THE BUSINESS RECORD YEAR, REFLECTING THE REBALANCING OF THE development, performance and position DMGT is a multiple media business, GROUPS ASSETS.
of the Group as well as those likely to as illustrated at the front of this Annual affect performance over the coming year, Report, operating in different markets, each illustrating this with key performance within its particular competitive and indicators.
Operational responsibility is devolved to our six divisions This Chief Executives Review sets out whose boards the executive Directors chair.
the nature, objectives and strategy of the We operate with a light touch from the Group, together with the principal risks centre, relieving line management of public and uncertainties we face.
It is followed on company activities that do not contribute pages 17 to 29 by a business review of the at the operating level, but strong financial development and performance of each of controls, particularly over capital allocation, our operating divisions.
A Financial and are retained at the centre.
DMGTs Treasury Review follows on pages 30 to 35. objectives are embedded into the thinking of each of our divisional management teams.
DMGTS PHILOSOPHY DMGTs practice over many years has STRATEGY been to take advantage of its shareholding The Groups objective is to be the owner structure to invest for the long term in of high quality sustainable media properties, order to generate value for its shareholders.
which lead their markets, thereby Control by a founding family is a model generating a premium return for which has been demonstrated to serve the shareholders.
Over the past decade the media industry well over time.
Our strategy strategy has been to continue to sustain Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 09 Chief Executives Review continued and invest in the core UK newspaper The approach to managing the Groups businesses, and to use the surplus cash divisions and those divisions strategies flow and leverage of the Group to acquire has not changed in recent years.
The DMGT OUR NEWSPAPERS REMAIN or develop high growth media businesses operational model has been generally HIGHLY PROFITABLE AND unaffected by the UK advertising market autonomous divisional management, THE DAILY MAIL HAD A RECORD YEAR.
By a combination strong incentives based on performance of these objectives, we seek to drive up and central control of surplus capital and DMGTs overall share rating from the lower of its re-investment.
levels attaching to UK newspapers to the higher levels attracted by focused Over the last few years, it has become subscription-driven business to business clear that the Group has needed to be run B2B assets.
The Groups overall strategy faster as the pace of change in business has progressed over the ten years since.
has quickened, particularly the threat Our expertise is in buying early stage to traditional media forms from new businesses and taking them forward.
We commented last year on the loss of classified advertising at the DMGTs owner-minded structure has Evening Standard and the decline of profits allowed it to deploy a consistent capital at Teletext due to structural changes in allocation plan over time, moving its its market.
Both businesses have been formidable cash flow progressively away substantially restructured in the last year.
from a dependence on UK newspapers.
The need for the Group to go faster led Our newspapers have done tremendously directly to the decision in 2004 to put a well, faring much better than others, and Capital Appreciation Plan into Euromoney remain highly profitable indeed 2007 was Institutional Investor: the strategic review FOLLOWING A STRATEGIC a record year for the Daily Mail and we of Northcliffe Media during 2005 6: and to REVIEW OF DMG WORLD have continued to invest in them in order a strategic review of dmg world media MEDIA, THERE IS A NEW FOCUS ON THE B2B to maintain their market-leading positions.
SECTOR WHERE GROWTH But whereas the Groups earnings grew OPPORTUNITIES ARE strongly in the late 1990s largely due to The motivating impact of the CAP on THE GREATEST.
our newspapers, more recently it is its Euromoneys senior management has business-focused operations that have turbo-charged its performance, after several shown stronger earnings growth.
Hence years of flat earnings, leading to the CAP our strategy has been to gear up and vesting a year early.
We have put long-term invest beyond our newspapers: in DMG incentive plans into other divisions also.
Information where performance has been stellar: and in Euromoney and Our review of dmg world media has led the exhibitions over many years.
In the Board to decide to focus on the B2B sector allocation of capital over the long term, which is growing strongly and where the there has been a move towards investment growth opportunities are greatest.
in B2B operations which we expect Secondly, it decided to accelerate the to continue.
acquisition of George Little Management GLM in order to unlock value through As a consequence of this deliberate revenue synergies and increased deployment of capital, an increased efficiencies, establishing a new business percentage of the Groups revenues to retail B2R sector, putting gift and surf is generated from streams, other than together, in order to build profit: and thirdly advertising, principally subscriptions it decided to sell the US home shows and events.
A significant part of the asset within the business to consumer B2C base is now outside the UK: the Groups division.
These shows have generated good exposure to regulation has been greatly cash flows over the years, but have lower reduced: and for the first time in 2007 margins and require greater management more than a half of its operating profits attention.
In the UK, it will seek to were derived other than from newspaper re-fashion the Ideal Home Show which has Adjusted operating profit publishing, compared to a quarter ten experienced challenging conditions.
before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment years ago.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 10 Chief Executives Review continued At Associated Newspapers, we have with premium content will ultimately prevail continued to invest in editorial quality.
Considerable advances The graph on page 19 demonstrates the have been made in the year in making our extent to which the Mail titles have titles more digital.
The companion websites continued to increase their market share, have been fully integrated into the editorial due to their strong brands.
process of our newspaper operations and Mail Online has, from a standing start, THE MAIL ONLINE IS THE UKS SECOND BIGGEST NEWSPAPER Last year, I identified a strategic challenge become the second biggest newspaper WEBSITE.
to be addressed of Associateds relatively website, backed by the Mails formidable low margins which have a material impact editorial resources.
Mail Online now has on the Groups overall margins.
These access to all of the Mails editorial content margins fell in the year because of increased and stories are now broken online.
Further losses in the London publishing market revenue opportunities will emerge as the which is now a key focus of management.
Mail becomes more interactive, getting We have reviewed the Evening Standard closer to its readers in Middle Britain.
and embarked upon a plan to restore it to profitability in the medium term by We have continued to defend and extend establishing itself as the quality London the Groups advertising base regardless evening newspaper.
This plan depends on of format.
DMGTs initial measured forays stabilising revenue after years of decline and into new media proved that newspaper stringent cost control.
Progress has also executives needed to acquire different been made in London Lites business plan.
As a consequence, we used the DIGITAL REVENUE GROWTH internet downturn in the early part of the SINCE 2004 From January 2008 Associated will benefit century to acquire established businesses.
86m from the availability of full colour.
It will Our strategy at Associated Northcliffe also bear increased production costs from Digital AND has involved investments to 1st October 2007 as a result of the new increase exposure to areas of the online 456% INCREASE SINCE 2004 Didcot plant coming online, but we expect advertising market pertinent to Associated.
to receive a reduction in the price of First of all, in April 2004, we acquired newsprint from 1st January for the first Jobsite which has proved highly successful, 15m time in five years.
There is a continued retaining its passionate management team focus on costs: progress has been made with AND providing the central expertise to in editorial and media buying and further help them grow.
We have built a presence efficiencies will come from external also in the online property, motors and printing and promotions.
The cost base dating markets and through Teletext in of our national newspapers continues to travel.
We have been less successful in adjust to a lower level of revenue growth personal finance where volumes have due to the likely migration online of dropped off and the market has proved display and classified revenues at varying more competitive than we had expected.
Our objective is to meet this challenge without losing the powerful Associated invested 14 million in the year advertising response from an engaged on smaller in-fill acquisitions, bringing to readership, given that the Mail titles have 169 million the total invested in pure play 169m a most envied position in the UK market digital consumer businesses since 2004.
INVESTMENT IN PURE and that Associated are efficient producers AND is now one of the leading players in PLAY DIGITAL BUSINESSES of high quality publications, not low cost the UK digital media industry with old SINCE 2004. producers like some others.
Associated medias best set of digital consumer is growing its enterprise revenue, selling assets, and its objective is to be the goods and services to readers.
number one or two player in each chosen market.
To this end, we have invested Associated has talented people who know heavily during the year in growing how to attract people to read their products particularly our property and motors and this will not change.
Our aim is to produce portals in order to take market share from the most entertaining and informative media the pre-eminent industry players.
and we believe that strong trusted brands Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 11 Chief Executives Review continued At Northcliffe Media, we have reprovide us with two key competitive engineered its business over the past two advantages.
Furthermore, the strength years to create an operation with strong of partnering with the pure plays is A REBALANCED PORTFOLIO, capability.
Its revitalised and repositioned that these online businesses must stay IMPROVED OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY AND A RENEWED business is becoming an integrated ahead in terms of technology and user SENSE OF PURPOSE HAVE provider of local media services.
Its experience if they are to compete in the REVITALISED NORTHCLIFFE.
strategy within the UK is focused on digital marketplace.
As they develop their meeting local reader and advertiser platforms, the enhanced functionality is requirements across a variety of media immediately available to all of Northcliffes formats.
Digital publishing is a key sites and, thus, all of Northcliffes users component.
Overseas, it has expanded and customers.
within the emerging economies of Central Europe where there are good growth Last year, I identified a further objective prospects in print and online.
It is of Northcliffe needing to defend its focused on generating profitable revenue newspaper circulations.
These experienced growth and has built a resilient business disappointing declines in 2007, particularly model which has the potential to generate in the weekly titles which are now subject solid and steady revenue performance.
to renewed focus to understand the underlying causes.
The key steps leading up to a revitalised Northcliffe, allowing us to run the business At DMG Information we invested a faster, were re-balancing its portfolio: further 54 million in the year, mainly on delivering improved operational efficiency strengthening its property division through through its Aim Higher programme and the acquisition of Quest, making a total of 15% instilling a renewed sense of purpose 474 million since 1996 net of disposals.
APPROXIMATE ANNUAL GROWTH EXPECTED OVER THE throughout the organisation.
The cost This year the business made another record NEXT FIVE YEARS AT DMGI.
reduction target of 45 million per annum operating profit and maintained the was achieved in the year.
impressive growth in its profits from a standing start in 1998, illustrated on page Northcliffe is now focused on its core 25, which is such a credit to its management publishing capability and has created team based in the US.
Its strategy will geographical synergies through remain focused on investing in those regionalisation.
In June it disposed of its companies with attractive business model non-core retail business.
The acquisition characteristics, strong market positions, of titles from Trinity Mirror plc in the South growth potential and good management.
We of England in July created critical mass for expect DMGI to continue to grow its business Northcliffe in that area.
We do not expect annually by around 15% per annum over to find further significant acquisition the next five years due to the strength of its opportunities in UK local media.
business models and growth of its newer products, although current uncertainties Northcliffe has repositioned its commercial in its property and financial markets propositions for online jobs, property and obscure the short-term outlook.
cars, having left the fish4 consortium.
Its key online commercial platforms are Euromoney Institutional Investor had a provided by ANDs digital pure plays, superb year and successfully integrated Jobsite, Findaproperty and motors.
the acquisition of Metal Bulletin and Its advertisers have access to a powerful completed synergies ahead of expectations.
combination of media platforms when they Euromoney is seeing good organic growth place an advertisement in print and online in its markets, assisted by high quality with us.
This will enhance their reach to products.
It has successfully diversified a wider audience.
Already, it is achieving away from a dependence on advertising growth in digital revenue, from an and has demonstrated its ability to admittedly low base, far higher than leverage its brands across the world.
Adjusted operating profit that of its peers.
We believe the national Any downturn in its markets will be before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment portals and the print online combination an opportunity for it to make further of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 12 Chief Executives Review continued acquisitions.
DMGT acquired shares in temporarily stretched by the acquisition Euromoney during the year to increase its of the Metal Bulletin companies.
EUROMONEY IS A CORE interest back over 61%, following its dilution BUSINESS.
from 69% due to the issue of shares to part RESOURCES fund the Metal Bulletin deal.
The Board The Groups main resources are its brands, regards Euromoney as a core business and its people, its reputation and the marketour objective is that DMGTs diluted holding leading position of its major businesses.
should not fall again below 60%.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Our total investment in dmg world media The principal risks and uncertainties the since 1995 was approximately 400 million Group faces vary across the different at the end of the year.
This increased by businesses and are the focus of the Risk 77 million on 1st October, 2007, following Committee which I chair.
These risks the accelerated acquisition of the 51% are identified in a Group Risk Register.
stake in GLM to which the Group had been The materiality of each risk is assessed committed by 2014. dmg world media had against a framework to determine its a good year due to a strong performance significance and likelihood of occurrence.
by its B2B sector, offsetting falls within The Risk Register is used to determine UK consumer events and its Western US the agenda and activity of the Risk gift shows.
Following our review, new Committee.
The most material inherent growth opportunities are likely to come risks identified in the Risk Register, mainly from the B2B sector.
together with the steps taken to mitigate them, are described below.
The operation DMG Radio Australia was established of the Risk Committee is described on 400m in 1996 with a plan to build a national pages 43 and 44.
TOTAL INVESTMENT IN DMG WORLD MEDIA.
metropolitan FM broadcasting network through the Australian governments The geographic spread and diverse licence auction process with the intention portfolio of businesses within the Group of delivering an above average return help to dilute the impact of some of the on investment.
Net investment since Groups key risks.
Certain of these risks its creation has totalled 200 million.
are interdependent and should not be Progress has been slower than we had considered in isolation.
hoped when we embarked upon its expansion in 2000, but was made this The impact of technological and market year with Nova Adelaide becoming the fifth changes on our competitive advantage and final station in the Nova network to Our businesses operate in highly break into profit.
It was hindered, competitive environments that can be however, by an especially competitive subject to rapid change.
Our products and radio landscape and by soft advertising services, and their means of delivery, are in the key Sydney market during the first affected by technological innovations, half of the year.
The Vega product, changing legislation, competitor activity launched late in 2005 to complement or changing customer behaviour.
Nova, is now demonstrating momentum A structural change in advertising markets ALL NOVA STATIONS and the whole division moved back into resulting in significant advertising moving ARE NOW PROFITABLE.
profit in the later months of the year.
away from some of our traditional products Our Australian management team remains to the internet has affected our results highly concentrated on the task before both positively and negatively.
them which is to provide DMGT with a return on its investment programme We have developed an internet strategy which is now complete.
for each of our main segments of advertising revenue.
The decentralised During 2007, the Group made further autonomous culture of the Group strides, making strategic acquisitions encourages an entrepreneurial approach Adjusted operating profit and selling non-core assets.
We have to the development of new opportunities before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment re-established our prudent debt ratios, in response to these threats and we of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 13 Chief Executives Review continued continue to invest and adapt to remain financial impact of people living longer competitive.
Our strategy of diversification and how the impact of this risk can be and willingness to take a long-term view controlled.
These measures are in addition WE HAVE DEVELOPED helps us to react beneficially to these to the introduction in 2005 of a two-tier AN INTERNET STRATEGY FOR EACH OF OUR challenges and opportunities.
benefit structure in the defined benefit MAIN SEGMENTS OF schemes, providing greater employee ADVERTISING REVENUE.
Exposure to changes in the economy and choice with increased member customer spending patterns contributions in the top tier and a higher General economic conditions and the retirement age in the lower tier.
These financial health of our customers affect actions, together with the introduction the performance of all of our businesses in 2008 of updated defined contribution to some degree.
In addition, a significant pension plans in all other divisions and proportion of our revenue is derived from overseas, are helping to reduce pension advertising spending which has historically liabilities and control the pension costs been cyclical, with companies spending incurred by the Group.
less on advertising in times of economic slowdown.
Our commitment to investment Reliance on key management and staff in our core brands and products helps us In order to pursue our strategy, we are to reduce the effect of these fluctuations reliant on key management and staff across by maintaining the strength of our products all our businesses.
We cannot predict with in their markets.
certainty that we will enjoy continued success in our recruitment and retention Impact of a major disaster or outbreak of high quality management and creative of disease talent.
However, we have a number of Any disaster, such as a geopolitical event measures in place within each division to WE HAVE MEASURES IN or a pandemic, such as influenza, which address this risk.
These include payment PLACE TO CONTINUE OUR SUCCESS IN RECRUITMENT significantly affects the wider environment of competitive rewards, employee AND RETENTION OF HIGH or infrastructure in a sector where the performance and turnover monitoring QUALITY MANAGEMENT AND Group has material operations, could and a variety of approaches to staff CREATIVE TALENT.
In addition, divisional and procedures are in place to manage the management are tasked with reviewing impact of such risks, the event might affect staff performance and with developing our ability to produce and deliver our appropriate succession plans.
products, reduce the demand for them, or significantly affect our cost base.
The Tax risk importance of travel to many of our event The Group operates within many businesses increases the sensitivity of our jurisdictions: our earnings are therefore results to incidents that may affect subject to taxation at differing rates across confidence in travel to specific destinations.
Whilst we endeavour to manage our tax affairs in an efficient Pension schemes manner, due to an ever more complex We operate defined benefit schemes for international tax environment there will our newspaper divisions and for certain always be a level of uncertainty when senior executives.
Reported earnings may provisioning for our tax liabilities.
There WE HAVE TAKEN FURTHER be adversely affected by changes in our is also a risk of tax laws being amended ACTIONS TO REDUCE PENSION LIABILITIES AND TO CONTROL pension costs and funding requirements by authorities in the different jurisdictions PENSION COSTS.
due to lower than expected investment in which we operate which would have returns and changes in demographics and an adverse effect on our financial results.
These Working with divisional management risks are being considered with the scheme and external tax experts we have a team trustees to agree an appropriate funding of in-house tax specialists who review approach and an asset allocation strategy all tax arrangements within the Group designed to reduce and diversify the risk and keep abreast of changing tax inherent in the investment portfolios.
The Company is also assessing the future Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 14 Chief Executives Review continued Legal and regulatory the impact on the Group was material DMGT businesses are subject to varying and a repeat of such events cannot be ruled legislation and regulation across several out.
The Groups newsprint requirements jurisdictions including health and safety on price, volume and quality are monitored and employment law as well as more by the Newsprint Committee.
specific regulations such as from the Office of Fair Trading and the Audit Bureau o f Reliance on key suppliers Circulation.
Changes to this legislation The loss of a key supplier due to disaster or regulations could adversely affect the or economic downturn, or a significant results and future trading of the business.
worsening of commercial terms with Employees are made aware of health and key suppliers could adversely affect the safety and employment rights through Groups results and the Groups ability employee handbooks.
Controls are also in to produce key products and services.
place surrounding compliance with the DMGT has disaster recovery plans in place ABCs regula tions and other regulatory and resources are also devoted to ensuring bodies to which we adhere.
the relationships with key suppliers are maintained and upheld.
Reader listener promotions Many reader and listener promotions and Acquisition and disposal risk competitions are run by companies within As well as launching and building new the Group.
As highlighted by the recent businesses, an integral part of our success controversy over television and radio has, and will continue to be, the acquisition phone-in competitions, this is inherently of businesses that complement our 157% an area which could significantly impact existing products or expand the scope of OUR SHARE PERFORMANCE the Groups reputation if a promotion was our expertise into new markets.
A number SINCE 1988, RELATIVE TO found to be conducted inappropriately of risks are inherent within any strategy THE FTSE ALL SHARE INDEX.
within one of the Groups businesses.
The Group generally acquires Competitions and promotions within the businesses with a high potential for growth newspaper and radio divisions are closely in related markets.
The majority of reviewed and monitored both before they acquisitions considered are smaller add-on begin and whilst they are in progress.
acquisitions, which reduces the size of the risk of each acquisition to the Group.
Treasury Risk There are a number of risks arising from There are risks to our ability to achieve the Groups Treasury operations including optimal value from disposals including the currency exchange rate fluctuations incorrect timing of any sale, the inability to impacting on the Groups reported earnings, identify and agree a deal with a purchaser, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and debt the unsuccessful separation of a business levels.
In addition the treasury function within and management of any related costs, as DMGT undertakes high value transactions well as the failure to realise any other and therefore there is inherently a risk of anticipated benefits of a disposal.
The policies and procedures in place to manage these risks SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE are discussed in the Financial and Treasury Share performance remains important to us review on pages 33 and 34. as a measure that our strategy and balance are understood and recognised by the Price volatility of newsprint market, enabling management to pursue Newsprint represents a significant intrinsic value.
Over time our strong historic proportion of our costs within the operating performance has been recognised newspaper divisions.
Newsprint prices by the market, as can be seen from the are subject to volatility arising from graphs on pages 15 and 51.
However, since variations in supply and demand.
Whilst the end of July, a disconnect has emerged generally these variations are not large between our belief in the Groups growth and therefore not significant to the Group, prospects and our earnings forecasts on the there have been periods historically where one hand and its share price performance.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 15 Chief Executives Review continued The price of our widely traded A Ordinary CAPITAL STRUCTURE Non-Voting shares started the financial year The Company has not made a capital call 10% at 6 and rose steadily throughout the on its shareholders for nearly 75 years.
COMPOUND DIVIDEND autumn on perceptions of an improvement Capital growth is funded by long-term debt GROWTH OVER THE LAST TEN YEARS.
The and by retained earnings.
DMGTs policy is announcement of our 2005 6 results to seek to increase the dividend each year in November 2006 and the messages by 5% to 7% in real terms, within reason accompanying it, which demonstrated that regardless of the results, as long as we DMGT was not just a UK newspaper stock, continue to have confidence in the strength led to the price continuing to rise, peaking of our businesses.
As shown below, the at 8.65 in mid-May.
compound dividend growth over the last ten years is 10% in nominal terms, which is an Since the summer, the price has fallen increase of just under 7% in real terms.
below 6 in response to economic uncertainties.
All of our market intelligence The Company spent 28 million on buying its tells us that DMGT is regarded more A Ordinary Non-Voting shares during the positively than other UK media groups year to add to the 21 million spent in 2005 6. because of its diversification strategy.
However, at present, investors are looking We will continue to review opportunities for bad news and do not appear to want to repurchase our own shares, where to be exposed to consumer advertising appropriate, in accordance with the or to the financial or property sectors.
resolution passed at the AGM in February.
We hope that, once the current economic fears are played out and a return to SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE sanity prevails, DMGT will once more be IS IMPORTANT TO US.
accorded a proper rating by the market.
DMGT DIVIDEND HISTORY FOR THE PERIOD 1988 2007 PENCE INFLATION INDICATOR 1988 2007 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 PERFORMANCE OF DMGT A AND FT ALL SHARE INDEX RELATIVE TO VALUES AT 30TH SEPTEMBER, 1988 DMGT A MONTHLY CLOSING PRICE FT ALL-SHARE INDEX 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 16 Chief Executives Review continued CO2 EFFICIENCY 2007 RELATIONSHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS, 17,296 at the end, an increase of 8%, driven OTHER THAN SHAREHOLDERS by acquisitions.
Excluding acquisitions and Environmental, employee, social and disposals, the number of employees within community issues are taken seriously by Northcliffes UK operations fell by a further the Company, as set out in the Corporate 192 4% as a consequence of its Responsibility Report on pages 36 to 38. reorganisation programme.
DMGT also has a dedicated Corporate Responsibility section on its website which TRENDS AND FACTORS LIKELY TO is updated regularly.
The Board has AFFECT THE OUTLOOK policies on the environment and on equal The new financial year has generally 03 04 05 06 07 opportunities for employees, as well as started well for the Group.
on whistle blowing and health and safety.
CO EFFICIENCY IMPROVED 2 BY 1% THIS YEAR DUE TO All of these policies are established and The Mail titles are enjoying good circulation THE CONTINUED EFFECT set out on the DMGT extranet.
figures, showing modest year on year OF THE CLOSURE OF LESS EFFICIENT PRINT CENTRES.
growth, and are seeing strong demand DMGT AND THE ENVIRONMENT from retail advertisers.
The London We recognise that our businesses have an market, while still challenging, is impact on the environment through our improving for Associated.
The greater printing operations, offices, transport and availability of colour and potentially lower other business activities.
We are committed newsprint prices for Associated from to ensuring that, where practical, any adverse January 2008 will create new opportunities impact on the environment from our activities and a competitive advantage on which to will be minimised.
Our local media titles are impacts arise in our printing operations continuing to see improving advertising where we focus on newsprint, energy, CO2, revenues in the key recruitment category, water and ink efficiencies.
We have gathered while property advertising is now broadly the data over recent years in order to monitor flat year on year.
Northcliffe, as an each of these impacts, and graphs illustrating integrated provider of local media services, them over each of the last five years are set is well positioned for 2008 and beyond.
The overall trend is positive.
For example, newsprint production Our business-to-business divisions waste, as a percentage of total newspaper continue to perform well.
The prospects for output, fell again this year and, as shown in DMGI remain encouraging, given its strong the graph above, the Group achieved a business model and new product marginal improvement in CO2 efficiency, due development.
Risk Management Solutions to the continued effect of the closure of older continues to perform strongly.
Despite the and relatively less efficient print centres and continuation of uncertainties in the credit to the transfer of production to newer, more markets and a slowdown in the property efficient, sites.
market, DMGIs businesses continue to see good levels of activity.
Euromoney, now DMGT AND OUR EMPLOYEES with much greater reliance on high quality Our record on retention of staff remains subscription products, is seeing continued good, aided by our autonomous culture growth in its markets.
dmg world media 8% and by our provision of the appropriate continues to perform well within its B2B THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES form of pension provision to all our sector and our Australian radio business is ROSE BY 8%.
DMGT has kept open its final showing encouraging signs of improvement.
salary pension schemes in the UK newspaper divisions where people tend Overall the strength of the Groups portfolio to stay with us for a long time and where of market leading business and consumer the average age is higher.
In the other media businesses makes the Board divisions, which are more international optimistic of achieving another year of steady and where employees are generally growth in earnings, provided that the UK younger, we believe defined contribution economy does not deteriorate substantially.
pension plans are more appropriate.
CHARLES SINCLAIR The number of employees has risen from Chief Executive 16,033 at the beginning of the year to Daily Mail and General Trust plc
