CHaiRmaN aND CHiEf ExECuTivES REviEW DaNa DElivERED RECORD pRODuCTiON iN 2007 aND iS ON TaRGET fOR SiGNifiCaNT fuRTHER GROWTH iN 2008 2 Dana Dana Petroleum Petroleum plc plc Annual Annual Report Report 2007 2007 Alongside production growth, Dana has iNTRODuCTiON RESulTS pursued an ambitious exploration and We are delighted to report on another year With 2007 average daily oil and gas appraisal programme.
Significant effort of record operating performance with new production growing by 37% to 30,514 boepd was expended on securing drilling rigs in highs established for reserves, production, 2006: 22,285 boepd and an increased what continues to be an extremely tight revenue, cashflow and profit.
Danas average realised price of $56.03 per boe market for all oilfield equipment.
Rigs management team has also delivered a during 2007 2006: $48.78 per boe, revenue were, however, secured for prospects in the significant geographic expansion of the for the year increased by 45% to 311.5 UK, Norway and Egypt.
The 2007 drilling Companys business activities.
campaign delivered a number of successes Following the successful acquisitions of Profit before tax grew by some 48% to such as finding gas in the Dutch sector at independent oil company Ener Petroleum 143.3 million 2006: 97.1 million.
Profit E18, testing oil at high rates in the Grouse in Norway and the substantial Egyptian after tax increased by 49% to 61.8 million well in the UK, and discovering oil in two upstream business of Devon Energy, Dana 2006: 41.6 million, resulting in a 50% reservoirs at Storskrymten in Norway, which has established full operating capability and improvement in earnings per share to 72.17p was the Companys first well following numerous new business opportunities in two 2006: 48.24p.
its entry into the Norwegian sector.
Good further proven hydrocarbon provinces.
The progress was also made in building Danas Cash generated from Group operations Groups enhanced portfolio now comprises a portfolio of future exploration drilling grew 44% to 201.8 million 2006: 139.9 strong and balanced asset base.
This was supplemented by the a robust production portfolio delivering excellent results in its bids in the UKCS proceeds from a convertible bond issue cashflow from 30 fields, a wide range of 24th Licensing Round, being awarded 16 and a new bank debt facility both of which field development projects and an exciting new blocks, and also secured seven were completed on terms that were very exploration and appraisal drilling programme blocks offshore Norway in the 2007 APA attractive to the Company.
Together these with the potential to deliver major upside Licensing Round.
facilitated the record 351.3 million net cash over the next two years.
investment made during 2007 on existing Looking ahead, 2008 has started brightly During 2007, Danas active development projects and the acquisitions in Egypt and and production is expected again to programme and astute commercial deals Norway.
The Group closed the year with grow by more than 30%, with output for allowed the Company to continue its net debt of 71.3 million, equivalent to a the year expected to be in the range of delivery of year-on-year production growth.
Seventeen exploration In particular, the Enoch oil field and the and appraisal wells are planned for 2008, Having completed two significant strategic Cavendish gas field developments both with rigs already secured for 14 of these, acquisitions, and launched the most active achieved first production and have continued representing the most intense year for exploration programme in the Companys to produce in line with expectations.
This exploration in Danas history.
This forward history, the Directors do not recommend new production was augmented by further programme will target potential reserves of payment of a dividend at this time.
This will successful infill drilling within already around 1.4 billion barrels net to Dana over be reviewed once the upside opportunities producing fields.
within the acquired assets are assessed and the results of the ongoing exploration drilling are known.
Dana Dana Petroleum Petroleum plc plc Annual Annual Report Report 2007 2007 3 Chairman & Chief Executives Review continued 2007 was also a very successful year for buSiNESS DEvElOpmENT bOaRD aND CORpORaTE Dana in terms of oil and gas reserves GOvERNaNCE Business development continues to play additions, with a substantial increase in a significant role in delivering Danas As planned, Angus Pelham Burn will retire proven and probable reserves to a new growth, and over the past few years, as a non-executive director following the record level for the Group at year end.
Dana has consistently undertaken a high completion of the next AGM in July 2008. level of commercial activity averaging Increases in reserves arose in three areas.
Angus has been a key member of the around 10 commercial transactions per Firstly, there were upward revisions in a Dana Board and always shown great skill, year, ranging from exploration farm-ins, number of producing fields which have intelligence and integrity during more than 8 to individual asset deals, to full blown outperformed earlier forecasts.
Secondly, years of service to the Company.
We would corporate portfolio acquisitions.
Typically there were acquisition-related additions in like to record our thanks and appreciation to this activity is targeted at the strategy of Egypt and Norway and at the Cavendish gas Angus for his significant contribution during adding value through front-end exploration field in the UK.
Thirdly, reserves were added the development of the Group and we wish work and accelerating cash flow through through the new exploration discoveries.
him a long and happy retirement.
2007 was Further reserves growth is being sought Following the forthcoming AGM, Ian no exception, with the most significant in 2008, with Danas 17 exploration well Rawlinson will assume the role of transactions being the acquisition of Devon drilling programme targeting a range of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Energy Corporations Egyptian assets, prospects.
relinquishing the role of Chairman of the completed in October, and the acquisition of Overall, some 46.3 mmboe of proven and Audit Committee, which will in turn be the Norwegian oil company Ener Petroleum probable reserves were added during assumed by Philip Dayer from the same ASA now Dana Petroleum Norway AS in 2007 due to the net effect of discoveries, date.
Brian Johnston was appointed July.
These transactions have significantly acquisitions, disposals and field revisions.
as a non-executive director on 24 April expanded the Companys horizons and This increase replaced Group production 2008.
Brian enjoyed a highly successful delivered a larger, better balanced portfolio of 11.1 mmboe more than three-fold.
34 year career with Bank of Scotland of opportunities that the Company will seek Overall, net additions replaced 316% of HBOS, and was latterly Head of Corporate, to exploit over the coming years.
Full details production over the calendar year.
Group Scotland, for the Bank managing a team of these two major transactions and the proven and probable oil and gas reserves of 600 colleagues in 45 locations.
He has Companys other commercial activity during at 31 December 2007 reached a new high extensive experience across all areas 2007 are detailed in the Business Review on of 165.8 mmboe, of which 81.5% are now of corporate and acquisition financing, pages 26 and 27. held in Europe.
Danas end 2007 contingent including UK and international energy sector resources technically recoverable transactions, and he has worked with a hydrocarbons not yet determined to be number of Scotlands top entrepreneurs.
Brian has joined Ian, Philip and Angus all Therefore the total recoverable hydrocarbon serving as independent directors on the resources available to the Group at the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations end of 2007 were 280.1 mmboe, of which Committees.
We look forward to working 59% are currently classed as proven and with him as the Company continues to grow probable reserves.
4 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 2008 Will bE THE mOST aCTivE yEaR Of ExplORaTiON iN DaNaS HiSTORy.
a TOTal Of 17 WEllS aRE plaNNED, fOCuSED ON THE uK, NORWay aND EGypT Chairman & Chief Executives Review continued DaNa pERfORmaNCE OvER THE laST fivE yEaRS 1,400 1,400 1,200 1,200 1,000 1,000 800 800 600 600 400 400 200 200 Market cap Share price 0 0 2003 2004 20052006 2007 source: Datastream Note: Data is taken from 31 12 for each period OuTlOOK Over recent years, Dana has built a During 2008, Dana expects to invest some Danas management team is proud of the substantial and balanced portfolio of oil 200 million within its existing fields and Groups good working relationships with and gas assets.
As a result of exploration exploration licences.
Approximately 70 its co-venturers, which includes major oil success and a series of commercial million will be spent on production and and gas companies and host governments.
transactions, the Company now has development activity and 130 million on Such cooperation is valuable and leads a stream of drilling and development exploration and appraisal.
This capital to accelerated progress across different opportunities which will ensure its expenditure programme can be funded from areas of the business.
It also contributes growth continues.
existing cash resources and projected cash to successful licensing and unlocking new The Group has already drilled six wells flow through 2008. deal opportunities.
Across its operating in 2008 and is currently drilling a further bases in Europe and Africa, Dana continues Over the last year Dana has again well offshore Gulf of Suez in Egypt.
This to build its team of talented and motivated demonstrated an ability to generate and is the first phase of a programme of some professionals, all focused on delivering complete asset deals in a tight market.
These are increasing asset value per share.
On behalf This commercial activity optimises the targeting a broad portfolio of opportunities, of the directors and staff we would like to exploration programme, through farm-outs, across a range of geological settings, in thank Dana shareholders for their ongoing provides new opportunities and delivers Danas three key countries, namely the support and interest in the Company as Company transforming deals, such as those UK, Norway and Egypt.
The Company will we look forward together to an exciting in Egypt and Norway.
continue to develop its balanced exploration period ahead.
portfolio through licence round applications focused on the North Sea and North Africa and through commercial transactions.
In addition to exploration drilling, Dana is progressing numerous developments plus 12 infill wells in Egypt and in-field work on many of its other existing fields.
Ongoing Colin Goodall Tom Cross activity will grow the production capacity Chairman Chief Executive of the Company beyond the record levels achieved in 2007.
6 June 2008 6 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 p m
