CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ALL AREAS OF THE BUSINESS WERE REVIEWED WITH THE CLEAR OBJECTIVE OF ENSURING THAT ISSUES RAISED WERE DEALT WITH FOR THE NEW AUTUMN WINTER SEASON AND NEW 2007 08 FINANCIAL YEAR.
to reconfirm our principal growth ROB TEMPLEMAN Chief Executive strategies which can be summarised under four key headings: 1 Space expansion both in the UK and internationally 2 Improving the store environment and customer shopping experience 3 Product innovation, design, quality and value for money 4 Growing our online business and For the year ending 1 September other technology investments 2007 Debenhams gross transaction 135 value grew by 112.7 million to Store portfolio 2,305.6 million.
The primary driver Department stores Current number of department stores.
of sales growth was a total of 792,000 Although Debenhams has a heritage sq ft in new space being added to the of over 100 years in retailing, with only store portfolio.
Nine stores were 135 department stores trading across acquired from Roches in the Republic the UK and the Republic of Ireland we of Ireland.
Eight other stores were remain under-represented in some key opened including five Desire stores shopping locations.
Our property team and one re-site in Wigan.
has been very active in securing new stores for our expansion programme.
Merchandise sales growth by product During the year we acquired nine category was varied with a better department stores from Roches stores in performance achieved in a number the Republic of Ireland, opened new of areas including health & beauty and department stores in Llandudno accessories.
Unfortunately this growth and Warrington and re-sited our Wigan was offset by weaker sales from clothing store, increasing its overall footage by ranges, in particular menswear.
Since the year end, we have resulted in an overall disappointing year opened two small new stores in Llanelli for the Company with a like-for-like sales and Welwyn Garden City and re-sited decline of 5.0 per cent and profit before our Exeter and Derby stores, increasing tax and exceptional items of 127.5 million their footage by 48,000 sq ft. Today we compared to 112.8 million achieved in have 135 department stores and overall the previous year.
Although the overall trading space, including our Desire store retail environment became far more portfolio, of 10.4 million sq ft. competitive and challenging throughout the year, it also became apparent that some areas of the 10.4m sq ft Company had to be improved before we could regain sales momentum.
Against this background of increasing competition, all areas of the business the store portfolio, the customer experience in store, products and the supply chain and marketing were reviewed during the second half of the year with the clear objective of ensuring any issues raised were dealt with in time for the new Autumn Winter season and OPEN new financial year.
This work also served Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 6 Section 2 Business review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Above: Designers at Debenhams home, Rocha.
Right: Living accessories from a range at Debenhams home.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 7 Section 2 Business review Above: Designers at Debenhams Accessories, Sequin beret from Star by Julien Macdonald.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 8 Section 2 Business review Left: Julien Macdonald opens the new Desire store in Merthyr Tydfil, one of five new Desire stores that opened during the year.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 9 Section 2 Business review Below: One of the stunning images used in the new club marketing campaign launched in September.
Above: Designers such as Julien Macdonald bring the latest styles and trends to a wider audience.
Above: Within clothing ranges we have invested in better fabrics, improved styling and improved design content.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 10 Section 2 Business review Below: Mantaray, new and exclusive to Debenhams menswear.
OPEN Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 11 Section 2 Business review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Contracted department store openings 160 6 150 9 6 140 5 153 130 11 144 120 138 133 122122 110 100 2006 2007 2008 2009 20102011 9.4m 10.1m 10.5m 10.9m 11.5m 11.9m Trading space sq ft Open at beginning of year New during the year Desire store openings 16 14 12 3 10 1 8 5 6 10 9 4 4 2 4 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 57k 127k 141k 183k Trading space sq ft Open at beginning of year New during the year Currently we have a strong pipeline In the new financial year we anticipate of new contracted department stores further store openings in India, Jordan, which when opened will add an Cyprus, Romania, the Middle East and additional 1.8 million sq ft of prime the Philippines.
retail space to our portfolio.
Store development improving the Desire customer experience In the year we opened five of our The board is committed to investing for smaller Desire stores in Birmingham the long-term growth of the business.
Fort, Kirkcaldy, Merthyr, Altrincham and Over the past three years, our capital Walton-on-Thames bringing the total expenditure has been primarily focused trading to nine.
on new stores and infrastructure improvements.
This includes our new Contracts have been exchanged on distribution facility at Peterborough, a further four Desire stores.
rebuilding our internet site, the introduction of a radio frequency 36 International stores platform across our store base and Our successful international franchise numerous IT developments.
We believe Current number of International stores stores play an important part in that these investments will serve the extending the global reach of our brand company and its shareholders well by and awareness of our product ranges.
providing a sound foundation for the Over the past 12 months new development of the business.
international stores have opened in Bucharest, Moscow, Kuwait and Mecca.
We have always acknowledged that At year end we had 34 stores trading some of our older stores were in need of from 15 countries across the world.
refurbishment, particularly those which have been in the portfolio for many Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 12 Section 2 Business review Number of stores Number of stores years.
Debenhams has for the past few product in every brand delivers an years been committed to a rolling improved customer offer in each of refurbishment programme.
This is being executed across all merchandise categories We have been pleased with both sales throughout our Autumn Winter uplifts and return on investment from collection but is particularly evident our refurbished stores.
The latest within the clothing ranges.
iteration of this modernisation We have reinvested some of our sourcing programme has been based on the fitgains into better fabrics, improved out contained in our successful Desire styling and more design content over a format.
The first of these stores based large part of our product portfolio at the in Uxbridge is trading well above our same or lower prices than last year.
As a result, the board has decided to accelerate the Designers at Debenhams is a key roll-out programme of refits so that differentiator for our Company and has the majority of stores within our estate evolved to become a large and will be refurbished within the next important part of our business.
and design teams work closely with some of the countrys leading and At the year end our store estate can be most talented designers such as, summarised as below: Betty Jackson, Jasper Conran, Julien Macdonald and John Rocha.
Our aim Core 70 is to bring the latest styles and trends New 20 from the catwalk to a wider audience at Refurbished 26 affordable prices working with the very Ex-Roches 9 people who create the fashion trends.
Desire 9 Ex-Allders 8 Our Designer ranges offer consumers even greater value for the Autumn Over the past year there has been much season.
More design features and commentary about the capital spend quality trimmings have been added to per sq ft that Debenhams deploys on the garments alongside the use of more refurbishments.
We firmly believe that exclusive fabrics.
The combination of the key measurements of success for a better quality merchandise with the refurbished store are customer perception, latest catwalk trends exclusively sales uplift and return on investment designed by the countrys leading rather than cost per sq ft.
The board will fashion experts should enable our deploy whatever capital expenditure is Designers at Debenhams ranges to necessary to succeed against these make good progress over the next year.
We are particularly pleased with the Products and supply chain recent launch of a new and exclusive Debenhams is a multi-category range of childrenswear, Baker by Ted retailer with a bias to clothing across Baker.
The introduction of this range womenswear, menswear, childrenswear from one of the nations most iconic and lingerie.
We also have a strong brands was the result of great presence in other product categories collaboration and hard work from such as health & beauty, accessories Ray Kelvin and his team at Ted Baker and homewares.
alongside our own childrenswear buying and design teams.
Early Product innovation, style, quality and indications from the performance of this value are critical to the success of any range are very encouraging and we retailer.
Over the last six months an inhave been extremely pleased with both depth review covering all brands has the customer and trade feedback.
been undertaken to ensure every Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 13 Section 2 Business review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Our offices in Asia and Turkey are Initial results from this latest campaign increasing the level of direct product have been encouraging both in terms of sourcing and this is allowing us to rea brand projection but also through the invest a proportion of the resulting rate of sale of the lines featured.
That investment takes place through a combination of further Online improvement in the quality of our During the year we rebuilt and upgraded products and directly passing some of the Debenhams website.
Our investment the gains made back to our customers of 5.3 million means that Debenhams in new lower prices.
We believe that can bring its product ranges to a the strategy of constantly improving larger audience but also allows us to product quality and value for money develop niche micro-sites such as will serve both our customers and our health & beauty to cater for the ever Company well in the long term.
Marketing The proportion of retail sales achieved One of the key strengths of Debenhams through the internet is forecast to grow is the choice that we offer our customers substantially over the next five years.
and the broad appeal of our ranges.
Our Broadband availability is expanding customers are very focused on quality, rapidly and the older population is style and fashion and in particular shopping the internet with greater Designer brands at affordable prices.
The internet has become an important and integral part of our Market research continues to highlight business.
We believe that in the very breadth of range as a major influence in near future www.
com will determining where a consumer shops.
For any marketing campaign to We have seen substantial sales increases succeed the products have to be right.
Our focus is now The improvements we have made to to make significant improvements to quality, style and value within our the design and marketing of the online ranges has now been communicated store to further improve sales and extend through the latest interpretation of our the reach of our brand to areas of the Styling the Nation campaign.
country not covered by our store estate.
The campaign was launched in IT developments September with our new club style Debenhams has a very strong IT advertisements which are aimed at platform and a significant proportion of demonstrating the breadth of choice development is focused on projects to that Debenhams has to offer through its improve customer service.
We have exciting and stylish product portfolio.
installed a radio frequency infrastructure Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 14 Section 2 Business review Above: Radio frequency Above: Designers at Debenhams infrastructure has now been childrenswear, Butterfly by implemented in all stores.
significantly improves efficiency, allowing staff access to a wide range of information including stock availability, pricing and merchandising standards.
throughout our stores, which enables into our stores will provide us with a us to radically improve clarity of pricing foundation onto which further in sale or promotional periods as well technology may be added.
as having the opportunity to change rapidly the marketing of discontinued Current trading or markdown products.
Despite wider concerns about the macro economic environment and how this will The introduction of the radio frequency impact on the retail sector, we are technology is the most radical change confident that the changes we are making implemented in our stores for many throughout Debenhams are benefiting years.
It has reduced the number of the business.
Our new Autumn Winter hours taken in managing price changes ranges are being well received and this, and improved the clarity of our pricing together with the refitting of stores and which we believe will lead to a faster sell previous investment in a new IT platform through on merchandise and improved and distribution centre, is improving the levels of customer service.
Our growth in likefor-like sales and gross margin have both Alongside the price change management been positive in the first seven weeks of system, in several stores we have also the new financial year even though there installed applications known as work has been some disruption from the planner and management suite.
will enable our store management to We have also seen growth in market share spend more time on the shop floor and over the past 12 weeks according to the access key data immediately to improve latest TNS data.
Rob Templeman Looking forward, the radio frequency Chief Executive infrastructure which we have installed 23 October 2007 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 15 Section 2 Business review
