p1-19 tp Q6 8 4 08 12:17 Page 5 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 05 Chief Executives overview I am delighted that service excellence has been converted into strong operating results.
Peter Hindley, Chief Executive Strong performance The marketing of pre-arranged funeral plans also serves as Dignitys stable and predictable business has once again a significant investment in the business, being a key driver delivered strong growth in underlying operating profits, of incremental revenues for future periods.
The Group increasing 8 per cent to 47.6 million 2006: 44.1 expects to carry out the funeral for the majority of these million.
Operating profits increased 10 per cent to 47.7 sales, which in turn, through client service excellence million 2006: 43.4 million.
Combined with our funding and recommendations, will deliver further volumes going strategy, this has delivered an excellent return for our forward.
At the same time, these plans provide great peace shareholders in the period.
of mind to people in our communities, who know that their affairs will be dealt with as they wish.
Valuing our people During the period, my fellow Executive Directors and I have Our focus increased the number of visits to our funeral locations to The Groups strategy is very clearly focused on growing see at first hand the quality of service being provided by profitability in a responsible and sustainable manner.
During each visit, we have spoken to colleagues Underpinning this is a commitment to excellent client who are passionate about looking after each and every service and recognition of the importance of balancing the family to the best of their ability.
They truly are a credit needs of our customers, our employees, our shareholders to this business and we look forward to meeting other and the communities in which we work.
colleagues in similar visits in 2008.
We satisfy the needs of all our stakeholders by staying I am delighted that service excellence has been converted committed to both helping people through one of the into strong operating results.
This enabled us to make a most difficult times of their lives and to our strategy.
discretionary bonus payment of 1.2 million to permanent These have remained consistent for many years.
members of staff not covered by any other bonus scheme.
This equates to 600 for each full time employee and The remainder of this Annual Report describes in more is an increase of 20 per cent over that paid in the detail how this approach has translated into success in previous period.
each aspect of our business, whilst encompassing our corporate and social responsibilities.
Furthermore, we continue to maintain our final salary pension scheme, keeping it open to new employees.
Following our 10.0 million lump sum contribution in 2006, the scheme shows a surplus within these financial statements of 6.8 million 2006: 0.6 million.
Investing in growth responsibly Since otation, the Group has invested 35.9 million in acquisitions of funeral businesses, representing 43 funeral locations.
This investment in quality businesses delivers excellent returns for our shareholders and is a very effective use of our excess operating cash.
Similarly, 20.9 million has been invested in 224 hearses and limousines and 436 other new vehicles in the last four years, whilst 14.6 million of other capital expenditure has been spent to improve the facilities at 169 locations.
This substantial investment is helping to provide our staff with a better environment for delivering excellent client service.
