Chief Executive Officers review Brett Dawson STRATEGIC DIRECTION BECOMES OPERATIONAL RESULTS Our accomplishments in 2007 were achieved by successfully executing our business strategy and harnessing growth opportunities created by major changes in the market.
The four components of our business strategy driving profitable growth, offering a world class client experience, delivering operational excellence to our clients, and investing in our people and our culture have propelled us forward.
Our focus, coupled with strong execution across all geographies and client segments, resulted in exceptional growth and progress in our business.
The cornerstone of our profitable growth strategy is to ensure we identify and then aggressively target growth opportunities in the market.
Several years ago we identified a number of emerging market trends that we believed would be significant for the industry, our clients and our business.
We summarised these trends into three main opportunities for Dimension Data.
10 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 all the right moves maintaining a competitive edge will enable us to win in the marketplace We refer to these opportunities as the converged Several factors are driving our growth.
The basic corporate communications network is in an network, the converged client and multisourcing.
investment cycle where a refresh of many of its The converged network provides us the opportunity to foundation technologies such as routers and switches is occurring.
The increasing adoption of IP as a exploit the convergence of multiple services including standard is enabling our clients to drive data, voice and video onto a common Internet Protocol standardisation of their IT architectures, and thus IPbased technology platform.
The converged client enable substantial consolidation and centralisation of opportunity is about how we take advantage of the their overall IT infrastructure, providing improved emerging trends of unified communications and effectiveness and substantial ROI for their business.
collaboration, while multisourcing offers clients new In addition, we see our clients preparing their flexibility in IT sourcing.
We aligned our business infrastructure for convergence and embedding strategy, investment strategy, competencies and security into their IT infrastructure.
execution capabilities to capitalise on these market opportunities.
Today, it is rewarding to look back on our Convergence of voice onto the data network has been consistent growth and the rapid market share gains we driven by the increasing adoption of voice over IP have made by focusing on these three opportunities.
We have over the past few years been The record revenues and financial performance of 2007 positioning our business to secure this opportunity.
continue to validate our strategic direction.
The exceptional growth we have achieved in our Converged Communications line of business is clear CAPITALISING ON MARKET TRENDS evidence that the promise of the IP-based converged In 2007 we have once again been successful in network is becoming a reality.
The operational cost converting the converged network opportunity.
savings and productivity improvements of integrating Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 11 Chief Executive Officers review continued voice, video and data onto one infrastructure are now PLAYING IN MARKETS THAT MATTER leading our clients to large scale deployment of In every market category geography, client segment, converged  technologies or vertical market Dimension Data performed particularly IP telephony.
We are starting to see early evidence of success From a geographic perspective we performed strongly associated with clients adopting unified across all five regions, with revenue growth and communication and collaboration technologies.
expanded operating margins across the board.
Consumers are becoming more mobile and are Dimension Datas presence in over 40 countries increasingly demanding access to any application, around the world differentiates us from our using any device, from anywhere in the world, to be competitors.
Having grown our business out of more productive.
They bring their personal productivity developing markets into developed markets, expectations into the workplace and create new Dimension Data is often the partner of choice for global requirements for the corporate IT infrastructure.
experts refer to this trend as the consumerisation of Robust revenue growth from our global and IT.
In order to provide end users with a seamless multinational client segment during 2007 was experience we are focused on providing our clients associated with international expansion, convergence with services and solutions that enhance, integrate and and standardisation projects.
Our differentiation is not optimise their network, operating systems and merely in our footprint, but in our ability to provide messaging infrastructures.
local, in-country expertise and delivery capabilities that few competitors can match.
While the converged network is in a growth phase, the converged client is still in an early phase of market The mid-sized market also contributed to growth.
Our business is focused on exploiting these While large enterprises have significant IT departments opportunities.
in-house, our mid-sized clients rely on us to support them more extensively in the building and management Our Services revenue expanded dramatically this year of their IT infrastructure.
A lack of internal resources reflecting increased market uptake of our Managed and difficulty in attracting and retaining IT professionals and Professional Services.
We are succeeding in our were factors which often contributed to mid-sized intent to be more services-led.
In addition, changes are enterprises drive to partner with Dimension Data.
occurring in how clients source IT infrastructure and services.
Traditionally, many clients either managed IT Service providers including telecommunications in-house or outsourced to an IT service provider.
providers, mobile operators, internet service providers Currently, clients are opting for a multisourcing ISPs and cable operators continued to represent a approach to IT sourcing.
Multisourcing involves a large segment for the Group across most of our blended model where selected IT functions are regions.
In 2007, Dimension Data helped service outsourced to specialists, while other functions are providers build and develop their revenue-generating maintained in-house.
While the adoption of this model networks to support new services and applications for is at an early stage, the business drivers that gave rise their consumer and business customers.
Our expertise to the need for new sourcing strategies, like the across the service provider market is diverse.
In Africa ongoing skills shortage and the need for IT to show we deployed and integrated a 120 site, turnkey GSM greater alignment with business needs and outcomes, infrastructure.
For a Korean ISP, we took responsibility are here to stay.
Exploiting this opportunity is a key for the maintenance of their entire IP backbone.
In opportunity for Dimension Data and we are starting to Europe, we helped a large cable operator implement a see greater momentum on this front.
We also partnered with 12 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 international telecommunications providers to provide IT We made strong progress in providing services to the implementation and support services for their global public sector.
In South Africa, we built an emergency enterprise customers in geographies where the and disaster response centre to support provincial response on a 24 x 7 basis.
In Australia, we helped the providers have little or no presence of their own.
And government expand their capabilities to deliver elsewhere in Africa, our additional capabilities through emergency medical health services to residents in rural Internet Solutions and Plessey drove growth associated locations.
Within a large city in the US, we enhanced with the expanding market opportunity driven by the information-sharing capabilities of the criminal deregulation and increased telecommunications spend.
justice department to improve judicial service delivery to the citizenry.
We believe strong investments in IT by Dimension Datas long-standing relationships with governments across the globe will continue to provide many of the worlds leading financial services opportunities for the Group.
Governments pursuit to companies have helped us grow revenues across deliver innovative services, improve government multiple lines of business within this segment.
In 2007, accessibility and gain cost efficiencies, requires a financial services companies focused their IT partner with diverse yet deep domain expertise across investments on expanding and securing their core all aspects of IT infrastructure.
network, consolidating and migrating data centres and driving improved customer experience in the EXECUTING WITH EXCELLENCE contact centre.
Globalisation, the implementation of Focused execution paves the way to exceptional  IT practices and a move financial performance.
In 2007 our revenues increased toward increasing client intimacy led these 1 23%, operating profit grew 55% and earnings per investments in IT solutions and services.
This performance could only be the core network across ten countries in Asia for one achieved through the dedication and teamwork of our of the worlds largest banks.
Our annual client storage area networking solution and disaster satisfaction survey echoes this sentiment, with many recovery plan for a US-based financial services clients commenting on the exceptional calibre of company.
In Africa, we renewed an operations committed Dimension Data employees.
Attracting and maintenance and support contract for a fully retaining the right employees who reflect our values outsourced financial services network.
and the winning Dimension Data spirit was a priority playing in markets that matter Note: 1 Before exceptional items.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 13 Chief Executive Officers review continued during the year.
Our employees persistence to across our regional businesses and to enhance exceed client expectations continued to set us apart in collaboration enabling cross-sell and international the marketplace.
These improvements have also allowed us to establish a platform for a globally consistent Constantly striving to improve our execution also client database.
brings excellence to our business.
Extracting To improve our clients support we enhanced our operational improvements and efficiencies continued services platform with two upgrades to the Global to be a focus during the year.
Several areas were Service Operating Architecture GSOA.
These priorities for investment including our quote to delivery upgrades improved functionality and platform stability cycle, sales automation and the systems supporting and allowed us to offer new managed services.
A WINNING FUTURE Driven by the globalisation trend within many large enterprises, Dimension Datas expertise and Our continued success in the marketplace is all about capabilities to configure, source, ship, deliver, install our employees: their expertise and their and maintain IT technology around the world remains determination to deliver a world class client a key differentiator.
Dimension Data Direct, the experience.
At Dimension Data, it is critical for us to Groups e-procurement solution, experienced attract and retain the right individuals, who will exponential growth resulting in quotes to clients and in succeed in our high performance culture.
During the purchase orders processed.
Dimension Data Direct year we made several investments to improve the simplifies the quote to invoice process through employee experience at Dimension Data.
We built integration and automation.
It increases productivity new systems to better attract candidates.
Our and reduces quote and order administration.
induction programmes were improved so that Dimension Data Direct also supports services employees can become more effective early in their revenues by incorporating quotes for Professional, careers.
The continued education of employees Support and Managed Services into every product to improve their skills and gain new technical sale.
Although it is still completing a global roll-out, competencies and certifications was a priority.
A new Dimension Data Direct has already delivered large programme, to further develop the top leaders across operational efficiencies to the Group.
the globe and assist with succession management, was also implemented.
The yearly increase in our To enhance clients order fulfilment, we improved our annual employee survey scores indicate that, while systems to provide global visibility of the real-time there are still areas for improvement, overall our status and movement of orders from order placement employees are very happy with their employee to the point of delivery.
We also added features to experience at Dimension Data.
provide clients with better visibility of global purchase patterns and to track the international shipment We work hard at building and enhancing our documentation process.
To simplify and streamline partnerships with the market leading IT technology communication about technology shipment status, we manufacturers whose technologies we integrate into also established a Client Services Centre.
Building winning relationships with these market leaders and other From an internal perspective, our efforts to automate specialised manufacturers allows us to deepen our our sales processes also advanced.
All sales technical competencies and integration experience.
employees now operate off one sales pipeline Partnering with these leaders positions us to capture management tool, allowing us to gain consistent the integration opportunities associated with market visibility across accounts and regions.
The opportunity provided by convergence able to track and align key sales performance metrics and, in the future, unified communications requires 14 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 integration across many disparate components of IT infrastructure and technology.
During 2007, we were recognised for our breadth of technical expertise and experience with over 80 awards from our partners.
OUTLOOK This financial year was one of significant progress and success on many fronts.
Our diversified geographic footprint and ability to provide technical expertise to our clients in their local markets, continue to provide significant competitive advantage for us.
The Group is benefiting from favourable macro IT industry trends, and we continue to see a number of exciting opportunities before us, such as the deregulation and expansion of telecommunication services, the adoption of a converged IP-based IT infrastructure, and the emergence of unified communications.
We have not been adversely impacted to date by current macro economic uncertainties, although we continue to monitor developments closely.
We expect to deliver strong organic revenue growth in the financial year ahead, albeit at rates that are expected to moderate somewhat from the exceptional growth achieved in 2007.
Supported by ongoing investment and a strong balance sheet, we expect to achieve growth across all lines of business and remain confident that the Group is well positioned to drive further operational leverage and profitable growth.
Brett Dawson Chief Executive Officer Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 15
