Page 5 Aga Rangemaster is home to a family of strong brands that, together, tell a powerful consumer story not just in the UK, but increasingly overseas too.
With cooking firmly at the heart, our brands spread out to embrace the kitchen generally and then yet further into the entire home.
We believe that the dedicated work of recent years on product development, channel management and production is now translating into growth stories which will take the Group forward in the years ahead.
Chief executives review owners many of whom have had our products for tens of years.
ga operations remain core to us.
While still made in Abraham Owners of Agas, Rayburns and Stanleys are strong advocates for Darbys foundry in the World Heritage site at Coalbrookdale, the products themselves, but we would also like them to know Atodays Aga has changed appreciably.
This is seen in the that Aga Rangemaster is the company behind their much loved programmable electric Aga which can go into slumber mode until products.
required to cook the next meal.
Production processes are more efficient, but more particularly, the product itself is more flexible We hope to see more owners in the 76 Aga shops across the UK.
and efficient than ever before.
This is seen, for example, in burner We have much that is new to offer not just in cookers but in efficiency levels across our ranges and in the new generation of cookware too and more broadly, in the kitchen and entire home, wood burning, carbon neutral products from Rayburn and Stanley.
through our Fired Earth, Grange and Divertimenti brands.
We have some well established international markets.
Overseas, In cautious consumer markets sales of cast iron cookers were there are over 100 outlets which sell Agas.
Around 45% of cast slightly down in the year but leads and enquiry levels continue to iron cooker sales were outside the UK.
We now have some well rise.
We link this to our work on our overall objective of being in established international positions, notably in Ireland where our active contact with as many cast iron cooker owners as possible Waterford Stanley team are making a success of our strong brand worldwide by the end of 2009.
Our database has steadily grown positions.
Holland and Belgium are also important markets.
and improved but we are now actively tracking down existing AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 6 Chief executives review Where we are already seeing strong growth is with our Rangemaster customers look to have Rangemaster kitchens and not just a brands.
This expansion driven by efficient production and Rangemaster or Falcon cooker.
innovation since 2002 when we decided to focus exclusively on Our wider kitchen offering incorporates our US based Marvel the premium end of the market has been remarkable.
It now undercounter refrigeration business.
Here, we felt the impact of takes around 30% less time to produce a cooker than it did in 2002, the weak US consumer markets in 2007 with revenues falling with robotics and major layout improvements at our Leamington around 10% 2.6% at constant exchange rates.
However, the Spa factory playing important roles.
introduction of our new generation of appliances, including dual Leamington Spa is now a production hub producing cookers to temperature zone models and electronic controls across the sell under the Rangemaster, Falcon and La Cornue brands and in range, have proved timely, strengthening our competitive North America under the Heartland and Aga brands.
Marvel has a good profitable track record and we coming fast overseas, most notably in Ireland and in France believe that there are still considerable production efficiency where we now have 1,500 displays and a sales team of 8.
We have improvements to be made which can help to raise margins.
just under a 50% share of the premium range cooker market in Aga Heartland has become our US cooker business in North France a market that has been almost entirely built from scratch America.
We have worked steadily to develop recognition and by the Rangemaster team.
That process continues and we The broadening of the range to create a Rangemaster suite of remain confident that the higher recognition we have will bring products including cooker hoods, splash backs, sinks and fridges results particularly as we reach out using the internet to both shows where there is still greater potential.
Further, moves into new customers and the considerable Aga owning community.
the built-in market with sourced product as well as expanding in When we look at the overall performance of our operations we induction models and developing an innovative energy saving recognise that improving margins at Fired Earth and Grange, panel which allows the customer to have either the largest capacity which account for about one sixth of revenue but were not 110cm oven on the market or to divide the area in two to create a profitable in 2007, is an important challenge.
We are therefore smaller, more energy efficient oven when only small meals are particularly pleased that Fired Earth is making progress and our being cooked.
home design team is making an impact.
Our tile ranges are We expect to build further on our sales of 76,000 cookers made in innovative: sales of our paint, now to be found in Homebase and 2007.
Our sink operation based in Nottingham also ties closely in B&Q, are growing fast and our Grange made kitchen and bathroom with cookers, particularly in the growing number of Rangemaster furniture gives us a clear identity in the market place in those centres currently 65 found in leading Design Centres, as more sectors.
Similarly, at Grange a young and enthusiastic management ga is an aspirational brand, with a pedigree of luxury and English tradition a brand steeped in heritage: with a heart and soul: and with a magical ability to become part of the family like no other.
Its seen by millions as central to a happy home life: the warmth and atmosphere of a perfect meal shared with friends and family an emotional connection to the brand that makes every Aga owner say I love my Aga.
The brand is quietly confident and discreetly affluent, attracting people who make a conscious decision to invest in an iconic and authentic product that will last a lifetime in full knowledge of the fact that what theyre buying is not just a cooker but a way of life.
Principal markets UK, Ireland, France, North America, Benelux Primary routes to market Own retail, dealers and distributors Product lines and price points Heat storage cookers 8,000 15,000 S Series 3,000 5,500 Masterchef 3,000 3,500 Refrigeration 1,300 4,700 Cookshop up to 350 Production location UK AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 7 team has successfully updated the product range and marketing In this process we are continuing to focus on cost improvement imagery and is looking to use more effectively the brands global programmes.
We have identified input specification changes: dealer structure.
We are also looking to improve production sourcing changes notably through accessing suppliers from the efficiencies now that our new Romanian plant is fully operational.
Far East : plant efficiency improvements which lead to benefits of The US has been the weakest part of the Grange business and it over 3 million a year starting in 2008.
Achieving our targets does is here that we look for a significant rebound in profitability.
mean that cost increases we have seen notably in stainless steel and energy need to be passed on to customers.
We have largely Financial performance and targets been able to achieve this.
The sale of the Foodservice operations has materially altered the In relation to our balance sheet we have also looked again at our financial profile of the Group.
We have sold businesses accounting targets and concluded it is best to leave to one side the impact of for nearly half the revenues and around 40% of the profits.
We the Groups pension schemes in assessing returns.
Taking our have moved from being indebted to having a strong net cash 2007 balance sheet and excluding the 79.6 million net pension position.
This creates new challenges such as the need to adjust surplus, our net assets were 277.5 million.
This will fall to 137.5 the overheads of the Group to reflect a business with such a million on a proforma basis after the capital return.
Against this substantial reduction in turnover.
Further, there is now the return base we have set ourselves a return on capital target of 25% of cash and funding agreement with the Group Pension Scheme with 15% as our target for incremental investments.
As a consequence we have reset our financial targets.
continue to have a conservatively positioned balance sheet.
On a We believe that, leaving to one side the costs and credits relating proforma basis we had net cash at the end of 2007 after the to the Groups pension schemes but absorbing Group costs, proposed return of cash.
This represents a strong base from the continuing Group should be achieving a 10% return on sales.
which to finance our plans.
The equivalent starting number on revenues of 291.8 million in The structural change in the Group over the last decade and our 2007 was 8.6%.
Incorporating the net pension credits the return careful approach to financial planning have been behind our on sales in 2007 was 10.6%.
We aim to move to 12% return lower than standard rate tax charge.
In 2007 we reported a tax excluding these pension credits in the longer term.
Such returns charge of 4.2 million a rate of 15.2% on the pre-tax profits.
We would be better than those achieved by most appliance expect the rate to revert to around 20% in 2008.
The total cash manufacturers and reflect the premium nature of our brands.
In tax paid by the businesses in 2007 was 4.9 million.
assessing these targets with the improved performance of Fired Earth and Grange which can be expected to achieve over 5% Earnings per share from continuing businesses were 19.4 pence returns makes the overall objectives achievable.
per share 2006: 16.5 pence calculated on the average number of angemaster set the standard in cooking in 1830 when William Flavel invented the Kitchener the first modern range cooker.
It was an overnight success and went on to R win a gold medal at the Great Exhibition 1851.
Still true to its roots, Rangemaster is now the leading name in range cooking, and is synonymous with innovation, performance, quality and reliability making it the design conscious consumers brand of choice in stylish kitchen appliances and cookware.
Rangemaster is the first range cooker maker to be awarded The Good Housekeeping Institutes Approved Accred itation, and topped a recent Which?
Principal markets UK, Ireland, France, Holland, Australia and USA.
Primary routes to market Multiple and independent electrical retailers and kitchen specialists Product lines and price points Range cookers 1,300 2,300 Integrated cookers 300 900 Fridge freezers, ice makers, wine fridges 700 2,000.
Sinks 90 800 Cookware 2 130 Production location UK AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 8 Chief executives review Turnover Operating Disposals in the year profit 2007 saw us exit from our US consumer home fashions business, Domain, and from our Foodservice operations.
Domain had been struggling for some time in difficult market conditions and we sold the business in June 2007.
Subsequently market conditions deteriorated further and the new owners decided in January this year to file under US bankruptcy provisions.
We have now written down our residual loans of 2.1 million and a receivable of 0.2 million.
Where possible we took on through Aga Heartland the active customer leads of Domain for our cooker businesses.
The sale of Foodservice was instigated in July and completed in December 2007.
We received good interest from both private equity and trade companies and were able to conclude a transaction before the credit market conditions materially impinged on the process.
The initial sale proceeds of 260 million were subject to adjustment for the net assets at completion over 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 a benchmark net asset figure and this has seen an additional 4.8 million cash receipt this year.
This means the profit on disposal shares in issue during the year of 120.3 million.
Future earnings was 30.7 million after costs.
per share will be impacted by the current proposals to make a cash return of 140 million and then to consolidate the number Cash flow of shares in issue.
Operating cash flow performance in the year was satisfactory.
We are proposing to pay an ordinary dividend of 7.65 pence per Working capital at the 31st December 2007 was 24.9 million, share making the total for the year 11.5 pence an increase of 8.5% of revenue.
The continuing business should be more cash nearly 10% over 2006.
Looking to 2008 we expect to continue generative and has lower capital intensity than the previous with our progressive dividend policy and expect that after the configuration of the Group.
share consolidation the trend will continue using the established dividend cover policy of 2.5 times out of fully taxed earnings.
Net capital expenditure including intangibles was 15.7 million.
fter 75 years as the professionals number one choice, Falcon has developed an unrivalled understanding of the needs of the most demanding chefs an insight thats applied to every Falcon product.
From cookers to cookware, the commercial pedigree of the Falcon brand shines through and no other brand comes close in terms of performance, quality, durability and design.
The endorsement by renowned chef Nick Nairn is testament to the brands achievement in meeting the needs of accomplished amateurs without compromising any of the Falcon professional equipment values.
Principal market UK Primary routes to market Premium independent kitchen equipment specialists Product lines and price points Range cookers 2,500 5,000 Fridge freezers, ice makers, wine fridges 900 3,300 Sinks 120 460 Cookware 15 300 Production location UK AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 107.1m 138.3m 164.0m 198.7m 242.9m 278.6m 291.8m 9.6m 14.2m 17.6m 20.6m 25.0m 28.3m 31.0m Page 9 This compares with a depreciation charge of 11.2 million.
We generated 4.7 million in the year from the sale and leaseback of Key growth objectives our factory property in Waterford a reflection of continuing work to optimise the value of our property assets.
Growth of cast iron cooker sales beyond 19,600 The cash tax paid was 4.9 million 2006: 8.5 million and the dividends paid consumed 69.1 million.
Growth of Rangemaster made cooker sales The Group ended the year with a net cash position of 169.1 beyond 76,000 million.
This compares with net debt of 10.9 million at the start of the year and net debt of 79.7 million at the half year after the Ensuring Fired Earth and Grange make a real special dividend of 55.6 million.
contribution on turnover of c50 million Pension scheme arrangements Growing overseas sales from 37% to closer to It is important to maintain a strong balance sheet given the 50% of total business relatively large size of our Group Pension Scheme in relation to the continuing business.
The Groups strong finances and prospects are important to the Scheme Trustees appraisal of the Schemes Making better use of the Groups customer position.
While the Scheme is well funded and reasonably base of 800,000 defensively positioned, when determining the size of the cash return consideration had to be given to all circumstances under which additional funding might be required.
Managing costs through efficiency improvements and international sourcing This Scheme together with the smaller defined benefit schemes operated within the Group had combined assets of 776.9 million and combined liabilities of 697.3 million under IAS 19 at 31st Set return on sales target pre pension credits December 2007.
Working with KPMG LLP Pensions, we have at 12% in the longer term considered the financial strategy for the Scheme and we have now reviewed this with the Scheme Trustee in light of the proposed he modern kitchen is the hub of the home a place to relax, be creative, to be with loved ones and to entertain.
The unsung hero of this environment is surely the T kitchen sink a hard working appliance that none of us could live without.
Leisure Sinks has been quietly and determinedly delivering engineering excellence in sinks for over 70 years, employing a wealth of experience and dependable performance that make it the brand of choice for one in four homeowners in the UK Principal market UK Primary routes to market Kitchen manufacturers and house builders Product lines and price points Sinks, taps and waste disposers 30 450 Production location UK AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 10 Chief executives review return of cash to shareholders following the sale of the Foodservice Market capitalisation at 01 01 2001 468m operations.
The financial modelling highlighted that, with an appropriately balanced investment strategy designed to reduce risk, in the majority of long-run outcomes modelled the Scheme Total shareholder cash return 2001 2008 m is now likely to be more than fully funded and can be expected to be more than able to meet the accrued benefits of members.
2001 To increase the strength of the Schemes position the Company Sale of Pipe Systems results in paid 14.5 million of additional contributions into the Scheme and agreed to add a 22.5 million cash collateralised guarantee tender offer 335 to its commitments to the Scheme in 2007 as it returned cash to shareholders and sold Foodservice.
In light of the further 2004 proposed cash return, an additional guarantee of 27.5 million is now to be added, subject to implementation of the cash return.
Share buy back programme 9 The 50 million of guarantees are expected to remain in place until 2020.
In reaching agreement with the Scheme Trustee on 2007 these matters, a long-term financial framework has been Special dividend 56 developed which aims to move the Scheme systematically to a self sufficiency funding position by 2020.
Should the Scheme be more than fully funded on this self sufficiency basis in 2020, 20% 2008 of any surplus would be available to the Scheme Trustee to Sale of Foodservice results in B C share 140 augment pension benefits.
The Company and the Scheme Trustee believe that the careful Ordinary dividend 2001 2007 74 and effective management of the Scheme over the last decade has given rise to a relatively strong pension scheme and that the long-term financial framework which has been developed will Total cash return 2001 2008 614 further meet the interests both of the Schemes members and of the Company and its shareholders.
ynonymous with all things good in country life, Rayburn has been at the very centre of family life throughout its history.
While practical considerations make it the brand S of choice for many it is also the brand of choice for those who aspire to country life and have a strong sense of taste, self and authenticity.
Rayburn is home to some of the greenest products around and the environment is at the forefront of Rayburn thinking.
Its robust designs, environmental credentials, longevity and practical attributes imbue the brand with a touch of the essential making it also the brand truly at the heart of the home.
Principal markets UK and Ireland Primary routes to market Own retail, independent dealers and distributors Product lines and price points Wood burning cookers 3,100 4,300 Gas condensing cooking, heating and hot water ranges 3,500 8,300 Production location UK AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 11 Competitive environment Risks and uncertainties relating to the Group and its businesses The markets in which the Group competes are fragmented but many of the Groups competitors are large and have substantially Here we highlight some of the particular risks which affect the greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel Group but it is not intended to be an extensive analysis of all risks resources.
The Group is subject to their competitive actions and, which may arise in the ordinary course of business or otherwise.
although the Group believes that the performance and price Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the characteristics of its products provide competitive solutions for directors, or that the directors currently consider to be immaterial, its customers' needs, there can be no assurance that existing may also have an adverse effect on the business, results or financial customers will continue to choose its products over products condition of the Group in the future.
The Group has a good understanding of There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could the markets in which it operates and its key competitors and have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance and their strategies and monitors and develops its strategy to achievement of its strategy.
These risks and uncertainties arise as a mitigate these risks.
result of operational, regulatory, financial and market driven Effect of legislation or other regulatory action factors, among other things.
The Group takes a proactive approach to managing risk and our risk management processes are further The Group is subject to various laws and regulations around the described on pages 28 and 29.
These processes also help to identify world and operates in sectors which may be affected by changes business, product and performance opportunities.
Although the in the regulatory environment.
Failure to comply with laws and Group has been successful in managing and mitigating these risks regulations, including health and safety and environmental in the past, there is no guarantee that it can continue to do so.
regulations, taxation, operational and competition matters could impose additional costs on, have an adverse impact on the Global, political and economic conditions performance of and damage the reputation of the businesses Changes in economic conditions, including, for example, interest carried on by the Group.
rates, rates of inflation, the competitive environment, economic Foreign exchange growth rates, tax laws and other factors can substantially and adversely affect the financial and operating performance of the The Company is exposed to two types of currency risk: Group.
Political risks can include sudden change in regulation, transaction risk in respect of products manufactured in one imposition of trade barriers, limits on the export of currency and currency region and sold in another currency: and translation risk volatility of currencies, prices and taxes.
in that the results of non-UK businesses will translate into he philosophy of Fired Earth is simple offer craftsmanship, originality, creativity, authenticity and inspiration to enable consumers to create distinctly individual homes.
T As a luxury brand, Fired Earth applies extraordinary care and attention to detail when selecting its products over two thirds of its tiles are either hand-made or hand decorated and many are exclusive to the brand.
Likewise, its expert design and installation service ensures it applies the highest possible standards to create an individual experience.
Fired Earth can be found in over 60 showrooms worldwide the business has grown but the passion and philosophy remains the same.
One might call it a Distinctly F ired Earth approach.
Principal markets UK and Europe Primary routes to market Owned and licensed retail shops, online and key multiples paint only Product lines and price points Wall and floor tiles 32 450 per square metre Paint 3 40.
Bathrooms 3,000 20,000 Freestanding kitchens 10,000 35,000 Production location Various AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 12 Chief executives review differing pounds sterling values depending on the exchange management and continual monitoring of the schemes and by rate.
Further details relating to financial instruments are set out in appropriate and timely action to ensure as far as possible that the note 19 to the financial statements.
defined benefit pension liabilities do not increase disproportionately.
Scheme assets are defensively invested.
The Raw material and utility prices Company works closely with the scheme trustee and specialist advisers in managing the inherent risks of such schemes.
The Group uses large amounts of stainless steel, aluminized steel, electricity, gas and related commodities.
Volatility and changes in Succession planning the pricing and availability of these could have a significant impact on the Groups results.
In particular, the prices of steel and The future success of the Group is dependent on the continued utilities have increased significantly in recent years and may services and continuing contributions of the Groups directors increase further.
The Groups raw materials are sourced on the and other key personnel.
The loss of the services of these world market and, in general, the Group has access to multiple individuals could adversely affect our ability to maintain the sources of supply.
However, should there be a significant change loyalty of certain key customers, to continue to develop in the global balance of supply and demand, or should there be a important markets or to implement our future strategy.
cessation of supply of these items, the performance of the Group The Group has reviewed its succession plans and the board are could be adversely affected.
In addition, following the sale of the kept informed of the succession planning in place for directors foodservice businesses, the Group now purchases lower volumes and senior management.
Appropriate internal development is in of stainless steel and other commodities.
As a result there can be place to ensure individuals can where possible be promoted no assurance that the Group will continue to secure supply of from within to middle and senior management positions.
these commodities on the same pricing and other terms as currently supplied.
Changes in consumer trends and spending Pension scheme funding The Group derives most of its revenues from sales of consumer appliances.
Financial and operating performance depends, in part, The value of the assets and liabilities of the Aga Foodservice on factors which affect the level and patterns of consumer and Groups defined benefit pension scheme is substantial.
As at 31st retail spending, including changes in consumer preferences and December 2007, the Scheme was in surplus on an IAS 19 basis.
Further details are set out in note 5 to the financial statements.
The Groups future success and revenues will be dependent, in The potential risks and uncertainties are mitigated by careful he Marvel story began in 1932 before the advent of electric refrigeration with the manufacture of ice boxes during the camper craze and Marvel has been keeping T America cool ever since.
The secret to the brands success over the intervening years lies in its innovation and lifestyle driven approach to product development an approach that has given birth to a series of firsts and making it a market leader in luxury refrigeration.
Today, Marvels stylish range of highperformance cooling appliances and sinks provide the finishing touches to modern living and outdoor entertaining.
Principal markets North America and UK Primary routes to market Two stage distribution Product lines and price points Wine fridges $1,000 $3,600 Fridges and freezers $3,200 $7,000 Ice makers $950 $2,300 Sinks $300 $2,000 Production location USA and UK AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 13 part, on the strength of its principal trading brands.
The Group Infringement of third party intellectual property rights monitors changing consumer preferences, brand perception, price Patents of third parties may have an important bearing on the points and other trends such as environmental awareness to Groups ability to offer some of its products.
The competitors of understand better and to anticipate its customers preferences.
the Group, as well as other companies and individuals, may obtain, and may be expected to obtain in the future, patents New product and technological developments related to the types of products which the Group offers or plans The Group continually seeks to refine and improve upon the to offer.
In addition, third parties may allege that their intellectual performance, utility and physical attributes of its existing property rights have been infringed by Group products.
There products and to develop new products.
As a result, the Groups can be no assurance that the Group is or will be aware of all business is subject to risks associated with new product and patents which may pose a risk of infringement by its products.
If technological development, including unanticipated technical, one or more of the Groups products were to infringe patents marketing or other problems.
The occurrence of any of these risks held by others or were alleged to infringe such patents, this could cause a substantial change in the design, delay in the could result in claims being made against the Group, which development or abandonment of new technologies and might result in additional costs and the Group being required to products.
Such risks could have a material adverse effect on the modify or cease development or marketing of a particular Groups financial condition and operating results.
Inability to protect intellectual property rights Product defect risk: products liability The products manufactured and sold by the Group could contain The Group relies significantly on confidential know-how, patents, defects, which could result in claims being made against the trademarks, copyrights and design rights to protect proprietary Group.
Individual components may not withstand the technology and other proprietary rights.
Notwithstanding the mechanical stress placed upon them.
The materials used may precautions taken to protect its intellectual property rights, it is result in as yet unknown health risks: in particular this could possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use affect food prepared with such materials.
The Group has put in the Groups proprietary technology without authorisation or may otherwise infringe the Groups rights.
In some cases, including in place products liability insurance but it cannot be ruled out that claims arise which are not covered by such insurance.
relation to a number of the Groups most important products, there may be no effective legal recourse against duplication by competitors.
ondon-based Divertimenti has been the food lovers favourite since the sixties and is renowned as one of the best sources of distinctive cooking equipment, tableware, L ingredients and appliances in the UK.
Its knowledgeable staff know their way round more than 5000 hand-picked items, almost all of which are displayed unboxed to encourage touching and handling.
Divertimenti is so much more than just a cooks emporium and beautiful tableware shop.
Intrinsic to the brand is the role it plays in educating novices and accomplished cooks alike, and the Divertimenti Cookery School runs a full programme designed to inform and develop skills at all levels.
Principal markets UK Primary routes to market Retail stores in London and Cambridge, online shop and mail order Product lines and price points La Cornue and Falcon appliances 2,300 20,000.
Small electrical 50 1000 Baterie fide cuisine 5 500.
Tableware, glassware, cutlery, and linens 5 1000 Books, dry goods and ingredients 2 50 Production location Various AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 14 Chief executives review Business divestment course are subject to agreement with the Trustee of the Pension Scheme.
The sale and purchase agreements governing the sales of Domain and the Foodservice businesses contained certain warranties and Treasury risk and policy indemnities in favour of the purchasers.
If the Group were to incur The Group operates a central treasury which operates in accordance costs under any of these warranties or indemnities, these costs with a treasury policy and procedures manual setting out guidelines could have an adverse effect on its business and financial for managing foreign exchange risk, interest risk, credit risk and condition.
financial instruments to be used in managing these risks.
Possible volatility of the price of shares in the Company The objective of the treasury policy is to manage the Groups The market price of the ordinary shares may be affected by a financial risk.
The treasury policy applied by the Group and the variety of factors including, but not limited to, changes in market specific guidelines to manage the main financial risks are sentiment regarding the ordinary shares, variations in the Groups outlined under the accounting policies on pages 42 to 46. operating results compared with the expectations of market Interest rate risk and policy analysts and investors, its business developments and those of its competitors, the operating performance of its competitors, The Groups policy is to have, ordinarily between 25% and 75% of speculation about the Groups business and regulatory changes net debt at fixed rates at any time.
There were no interest rate affecting the Groups operations.
Shareholders should be aware swaps in place as at the balance sheet date since the Group only that the value of the ordinary shares can decrease as well as had a modest level of debt following the sale of the Foodservice increase and may not always reflect the underlying asset value or businesses.
Borrowings held at the Group level are primarily currency Dividend payments borrowings which are used to hedge the net investments in its foreign operations.
The ability of the Company to pay dividends on the ordinary shares in the normal course is dependent on its profitability and the Liquidity risk and policy extent to which, as a matter of law, it has available to it sufficient distributable reserves out of which any proposed dividend may The Groups funding objective is to have sufficient long-term be paid.
The Companys ability to pay dividends is also dependent committed facilities, in addition to uncommitted facilities and upon receipt by it of dividends and other distributions from finance lease agreements, to meet its funding needs.
Further returns of cash other than in the ordinary of the Groups facilities is detailed in note 19 of the accounts.
eartland was established in 1990 to carry on the tradition of manufacturing classic cookers, first made in Canada by Findlay Foundry in 1906.
H Heartland continues to lead the North American market with innovation and style in the Classic and Legend brands.
Refrigeration, vent hoods and dishwashers have been added to the product line, offering the customer the opportunity to match the styling of all their kitchen appliances.
Heartland Appliances are sold through a network of over 700 dealers throughout North America.
Principal markets North America Primary routes to market Direct to retailer Appliance distributors Product lines and price points Ranges $4,700 $7,900 Refrigerators $3,500 $5,400 Dishwashers $1,900 Wood burning ranges $4,000 $6,300 Production location Various AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 15 The Group maintains relationships with several large financial in new markets.
Each business has its own approach to identifying institutions.
Company management spends significant amounts and attracting the appropriate skills and expertise it needs, in line of time with its lenders keeping them informed of the Groups with both its own and the Groups strategy and requirements.
development plans when appropriate to do so.
The Groups Vacancies and development opportunities are advertised internally committed loan facilities have two principal financial covenants, and where suitable candidates cannot be identified conventional interest cover and net debt : EBITDA, and complied with them at recruitment channels are used.
Each business regularly reviews the end of the year.
its training and development needs to ensure we have people with the appropriate levels of skills, qualifications and experience to assist it in achieving our strategy.
Legal and other matters The Group is committed to operating within the law in all applicable Our market position jurisdictions, and seeks to benefit from the rights and protections We have a strong corporate reputation for quality products which afforded by relevant laws.
The Group aims to anticipate and meet is based on our longevity in supplying customers and on our the changing requirements of the markets it serves, as legal and development of new products using advanced manufacturing regulatory reforms impact those markets.
There were no material technology.
The Group is amongst the larger players within the legal, regulatory or compliance matters to be disclosed during the sector and now has growing international reach and is well period under review other than matters already provided for and placed in product terms.
there are no significant post balance sheet events to be disclosed.
Our manufacturing facilities Resources A key differentiator for our product is our manufacturing facilities The Group has significant resources to support its core business which not only maximises the efficiency in our production processes but also means that we have a reputation for high operations.
Key strengths and resources which assist the Group in the pursuit of its key objectives include: quality products.
We continue to invest in our facilities to reinforce competitive advantage and to rationalise our businesses as Our people appropriate.
We have consistently sought to recruit and retain the best Intellectual property rights employees in our sector and this has contributed to our success in developing, manufacturing and selling our products in our The Group has registered a number of patents to support its business and to protect its competitive advantage.
Some of the traditional markets and in entering and developing our presence n Irish brand with a long and proud tradition, Stanley has been bringing warmth and comfort to homes for generations, stretching back to when the first range cooker was made in Waterford in 1934.
The brand inspires instinctive loyalty and appeals strongly to rural consumers.
The sense of family, cosiness and a relaxed and traditional lifestyle are values that Stanley owners aspire to, and Stanley meets these aspirations with its collection of heat-storage cooking, heating and hot water units and stoves.
Stanley combines superb craftsmanship and design to create products that suit a modern lifestyle and bring people together over good food, warmth and a strong sense of heritage.
Principal markets Ireland Primary routes to market Stanley centres and dealers Product lines and price points Heat-storage cast iron cookers 5,000 7,500 Stoves 500 2,000 Production location Ireland and EU AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 16 Chief executives review intellectual property and product innovation developed by our statements which are made by the directors in good faith are research and development teams results in new patents being based on the inf ormation available to them up to the date of their secured.
approval of the financial statements.
Subject to the Companys continuing obligations under the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and In addition, we have a large number of registered trademarks and Transparency Rules, applicable laws and regulations, the designs to protect our world renowned brands and trading Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise styles.
We monitor market developments closely to identify any any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new potential violations of our proprietary rights and take information, future events or otherwise.
The forward-looking appropriate legal action where considered necessary.
statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, Procurement teams underlying any such forward-looking information.
Nothing in this Our central procurement team works with each operating annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
business worldwide to enable us to negotiate contracts to ensure This review has been prepared for the Group as a whole and we benefit from the synergies available from group buying, therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters which are of whilst ensuring the quality of components and products is to our significance to Aga Foodservice Group plc and its subsidiary high standards and that delivery is scheduled to support our lean undertakings when viewed as a whole.
We have an established procurement team based in China who have achieved significant savings.
Corporate social responsibility Cautionary Statement Corporate social responsibility CSR is integral to all aspects of our operations and our Statement of Core Principles sets out our The intention of the chief executives review is to provide undertaking to act ethically and responsibly in all our business information to shareholders and should not be relied upon by relationships and dealings with stakeholders.
We are committed any other party or for any other purpose.
This review and other to continuous improvements in all aspects of CSR our policies, sections of the annual report contain certain forward-looking our systems, our performance and our reporting.
statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these Our programmes to enhance the sustainability of our business statements involve uncertainty since future events and and products include responsible sourcing, our community circumstances can cause results and developments to differ activities, our health and safety and environmental programmes materially from those anticipated.
These forward-looking and our engagement with employees, customers and other a Cornue has played an important part in French culinary life since 1908 when Albert Dupuy invented the Rtisseuse-Ptissire.
His patented vaulted oven design cooked L at an even temperature for the first time and retained moisture in the food.
It was a great success, and is the system still used today.
La Cornue is the world expert in domestic culinary art, combining a noble pedigree, professional performance, craftsmanship and stunning good looks to create a gastronomic experience like no other.
Principal markets France, Germany, Russia, USA and UK Primary routes to market Own retail and dealers Product lines and price points Chateau and Cornuchef 12,000 25,000, CornuF 3,300 Complete kitchens 50,000 Production location France, UK CornuF only AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 17 stakeholders.
As a supplier of premium consumer appliances, the schedule of matters reserved for board approval and CSR is Group sees product stewardship as a key part of its CSR included in the ongoing risk management process.
We work to design our products to be more energy The Group undertakes a rolling programme of internal CSR audits efficient in use, to have a high degree of recycleability and to which are conducted by functional specialists supported by utilise eco-friendly and sustainable energy solutions.
Thus, in external advisers, where appropriate.
During the year four CSR addition to our work to improve the CSR-related performance of audits were conducted at production sites in Europe and North our own operations we also help our customers to address their America.
The target for 2008 is to audit a further five sites with CSR-related concerns.
the objective being to audit each of our production sites at least This report provides an overview of the CSR-related performance once every two years.
and progress of our continuing businesses during the year.
We also report on our key performance indicators relating to human CSR reporting and benchmarking resources, health and safety and environmental.
For reference we The Groups annual CSR report is published on the corporate have included comparisons of performance against the former website in May each year.
The report includes further details of Group targets.
These targets were set to include the risks and policies, procedures and performance, with case study examples opportunities of the Foodservice equipment businesses which describing implementation across the Group.
Aga Foodservice were sold in December 2007.
As a result the Company will be Group is a member of the FTSE4Good index and uses this index reviewing its CSR strategy and related targets with further detail in conjunction with stakeholder consultations and other to be included in our CSR Report to be published on the Groups benchmarks to help identify key priorities and to drive progress.
Stakeholder engagement Management of CSR In accordance with our Statement of Core Principles, the Group The chief executive, William McGrath, is accountable to the board for the Groups CSR policies and procedures.
He is supported by engages in proactive dialogue with stakeholders and in particular liaises with shareholders, employees, customers, the Group HR director, Paul Tonks and by the executive suppliers, local communities, government bodies, other authorities management committee.
The managing director of each business has operational responsibility for CSR and is and non-governmental organisations.
This engagement includes accountable to the chief executive on all CSR matters.
regular customer surveys, surveys of suppliers and reviews of the Environmental, health and safety policy is included in the impact of our operations on local communities.
eritage, warmth, durability and more than a century of savoir faire in cabinet making are the essence of Grange.
Established in 1904, Grange still crafts H products in the mountains near Lyons in France.
It stays true to the idea of making furniture of high quality, combining inspir - ational new pieces, timeless classics and pieces that echo the spirit of the age dor.
From Moscow to Sydney, Shanghai to New York, Paris and London Grange furniture is available in over 40 countries worldwide, satisfying the appetite of discerning customers for beautiful products, handcrafted with care and passion.
Grange epitomises the French art fide vivre through furniture that truly demonstrates that quintessential French touch.
Principal markets Europe, UK, USA, CIS and Asia Primary routes to market Own retail, dealers, Fired Earth Product lines and price points A variety of styles of furniture presented in collections.
For example: Directoire hall cupboard 1,800.
Indochine bed with cane headboard 2,200.
Provencale table 1,700 Modular furniture from 1,000 per unit Production location France and Romania AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 18 Chief executives review UK and US employees may alternatively use the external Human resources independent services available in those areas.
All reports are Our people are key to the Groups ongoing success and future logged and monitored by the audit and risk committee and development and following the sale of the Foodservice appropriate action taken.
businesses the Group had 3,071 staff in six countries.
Some 69% We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the of our staff are located in the UK, 19% elsewhere in Europe and 12% in North America.
96% are permanent employees and 71% ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work concerning the fundamental rights including freedom of are male and 29% are female.
Of those in management roles 72% are male and 28% are female.
Voluntary staff turnover during the association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining: the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory year was on average 15% across our continuing retail and manufacturing business.
A number of our businesses made longlabour: the effective abolition of child labour: and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
service award presentations during the year, celebrating employees who have served for 25 and 40 years.
The Group requires its operating units to comply with its equal opportunities policy and it does not tolerate harassment or Human resources policies discrimination in any form.
The policy stipulates that operating The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities and recruits, units throughout the Group must ensure that this procedure is selects and promotes employees on the basis of their skills, implemented and that there is equal opportunity of qualifications, attitude and aptitude.
The Group invests in its employment, retention, promotion and training regardless of people and we encourage them to develop to their maximum race, ethnic or national origin, gender, marital status, age, sexual potential according to the needs of our businesses and customers.
orientation, religion, trade union membership or disability and that appropriate consideration is given to disabled applicants in The Groups Code of Conduct for employees outlines the terms of employment taking into account local legislation.
standards of integrity and honest conduct expected, and Special consideration is given to the training and continuing explains that breaches of Company policy may result in development of employees whose capability may have become disciplinary action and dismissal.
The Code of Conduct is restricted whilst in our employment.
published on the Groups website and includes the whistleblowing policy which enables employees to report in Employee engagement confidence and without fear of retribution any breaches of the Code of Conduct, fraud or other criminal acts.
All employees The Group recognises the importance of effective two-way world-wide may use the internal whistle-blowing provisions and communication in helping keep employees informed and Our Executive Committee We now have a strong executive committee to work with Shaun Smith and William McGrath to drive the operational performance of the Group and help achieve our growth targets.
Richard Eagleton 40 was appointed group marketing director in January 2008.
Prior to joining the Group, he held senior marketing and product development roles at Alfred Dunhill and Waterford Wedgwood before joining Wilson Connolly as director of marketing in 2000.
Richard is responsible for developing and integrating the Groups family of consumer brands and customer relationship management CRM.
Gerald OBrien 56 is managing director of our Aga business which includes Fired Earth and Waterford Stanley.
He joined the Group in 1972, and held a number of operational management roles within the business before his appointment as manufacturing director of Aga in 1999.
His role was later extended to include responsibility for operational management at Fired Earth and Waterford Stanley and culminating in his appointment as managing director of Aga in 2007.
Mike Bufton 46 has been managing director of our Rangemaster business since January 2000, and led the transformation of Rangemaster that began in 2001.
He worked for Morgan Crucible and Land Rover prior to joining the Group in October 1990 as finance director at Leisure Consumer Products.
Mikes responsibilities include the UK and international Rangemaster operations of La Cornue, Divertimenti, Northland Marvel, and Aga Heartland.
Gary Green 48 is group manufacturing director.
With a background in the automotive industry, Garys expertise in value engineering and resource optimisation was critical to the turnaround success at Rangemaster where he 2 3 served as manufacturing director from 1999 before taking on the wider role of group manufacturing director in 2002.
Gary is responsible for strategic 1 4 manufacturing and procurement initiatives across the Group.
AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 19 motivated and in maintaining constructive relationships.
programme was launched in early 2008 and early feedback has Business unit management hold face-to-face briefing sessions to been very positive.
keep employees informed of developments across the Group and receive feedback.
This communication is supported by a Health, safety and environmental variety of means including the Group newsletter, The Aga Times, The Group is committed to the continuous improvement of its which is updated online and is distributed regularly to environmental and health and safety EHS performance and to employees.
A number of the Group companies have their own enhancing the overall sustainability of its operations, products and newsletters and employees are encouraged to access the Groups services.
A summary of our progress during the year is included websites and the local intranet where available and certain here and further details will be set out in our 2007 CSR Report.
businesses carry out employee surveys.
The Groups EHS policies are underpinned by detailed procedures The format of the well established Human Resources Forum in within each of the Groups operations.
Business unit managers the UK and the equivalent structures in other countries will be are responsible for their implementation and for keeping all reviewed by the Group HR director in view of the significant concerned informed of best practice and the statutory change in the structure and size of the Group during the year.
Policies and practices are reviewed and updated for Revised arrangements will be put in place during 2008.
We are changes in legislation and employees are made aware of the pleased that Rangemaster was highly commended in the policies and their responsibility to ensure that these are Employer of Choice for Warwickshire in 2007.
The chief executive is accountable to the employees at Aga have received an intensive briefing on the board for EHS matters, supported by the Group HR director.
In Love Aga campaign and personal targets have been set.
practice all employees are responsible for implementing our EHS policies and for identifying opportunities for improvement.
Training and development The Group HR director ensures performance is regularly reviewed, that targets are set for improvement and to The Group invests in the capabilities of its employees and benchmark, leverage and promote best practice.
As noted above, encourages them to be fully involved in their development and the system of CSR audits supports this work and external training.
Over 2,100 days of off-the-job training were recorded consultants are utilised when specific needs arise.
In 2007 the Group created a management development programme to help identify leadership talent and In addition to supporting the adoption and implementation of to support succession planning across the Group.
The environmental management systems at its operating businesses, Paul Tonks, Group HR Director, and Stephen Beggan The Aga Foodservice team which took part in the Race for Life Business Excellence Manager, pictured with the winners of in 2007.
Pictured from left to right Clare Richards, Lindsay the energy poster design competition run by Rangemaster.
Stewart, Alison Neville, Linda Heard and Chris Stevenson.
AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 20 Chief executives review in the coming year the Group will be assessing the potential Environmental targets and performance implementation of BS OHSAS 18001: 2007, the occupational We work to minimise the environmental impact of our business health and safety standard, at a number of its major sites.
on the environment and to enhance the sustainability of the products we make and sell.
The Groups environmental impacts Targets include energy use and transport and the resultant climate change related emissions, water consumption, and the waste The Groups 2007 targets were set to include the Foodservice and recycling arising from our manufacturing processes and businesses which were sold during the year.
Thus performance general business operations.
comparisons for our continuing businesses with these targets are for reference only.
We will reassess the performance of the The environmental data in this report covers 100% of our continuing businesses and will develop appropriate new targets production sites and all sites for which comparative data for 2006 with details to be included in our CSR report which will be is available.
This represents some 97% of the total sales of the continuing business.
published on our website in May 2008.
In 2007 the CO2 emissions intensity of our continuing businesses Health and safety targets and performance were down 9% which was ahead of the former Group target of a 2.5% improvement.
This was driven by efficiency and reduction The Group monitors both lost time and non-lost time accidents, programmes across the business, with reduced transport emissions their causes and the amount of time lost at all operating units playing a significant part.
Total CO2 emissions due to energy use and sets annual improvement targets.
and in-house transport were some 36,600 tonnes.
Our water use Our long term aim is to have no accidents, and we made intensity was down 14% reflecting the impact of site based progress towards this goal during the year.
Our specific 2007 reduction programmes and the increased focus that reporting has given to the use of this resource.
Our target was for a 3% target was to reduce the frequency of lost time accidents reduction.
Reported waste intensity increased by 7% during the LTA to 2.5 LTAs per 100,000 hours worked, a reduction of year and the proportion of total waste which was recycled fell.
In 2007 the LTA frequency in our continuing businesses Improved waste management reporting and the reclassification was 1.4 LTA per 100,000 hours, which is markedly better than of waste streams meant that the targeted 3% reduction in waste this target.
However, although the LTA frequency for our intensity and 2% increase in the proportion of waste which is continuing businesses was down 10% against 2006, the recycled were not achieved.
reported lost working time as a percentage of total time The Group supports the adoption and implementation of worked increased from 0.16% to 0.25%.
This was due to a 67% environmental management systems at its operating businesses.
increase in average time lost per LTA caused by a small Some 11 sites have environmental management systems in place, number of long term cases, which had previously been including two which are accredited to ISO 14001.
The 2007 target reported as absence, rather than health and safety related to have one further site to achieve ISO 14001 certification referred lost time.
Our target had been to reduce the average time to one of the Foodservice businesses and this was achieved.
Increased emphasis will be given to Further details of our 2007 performance and our 2008 targets will risk management and return to work initiatives, initially be included in our 2007 CSR report which will be published on targeting specific businesses with below average the Groups website in May 2008. performance and ensuring there is consistency in recording lost time data.
# Area KPI 2006 2007 Increase We monitor accident causes on a consistent global basis, with the decrease most common cause of accidents across the Group being manual Emissions Tonnes CO2 per handling, cuts and abrasions.
intensity m sales 135 123 9 % Water use Cubic metres of water Going forward our objective continues to be to reduce accident intensity per m sales 367 314 14 % frequencies and the related lost time.
We will continue to target those sites with below average performance.
Further details of Waste Tonnes total waste intensity per m sales 41 44 7% our 2007 performance and our 2008 targets will be included in our 2007 CSR Report.
Waste % of total waste recycling recycled 73% 60% 19 % # All data subject to rounding to one decimal place.
KPI 2006 2007 Increase decrease # All KPIs are for the continuing businesses only, with 2006 restated accordingly.
LTAs 100k hours 1.6 1.4 10 % Includes in house transport and all energy sources with electricity Lost Working Time 0.16% 0.25% 51% converted using country specific electricity factors.
Days lost per LTA 12.9 21.6 67% Includes inter-company sales at constant exchange rates.
Total accidents 100k hrs 16.6 15.4 7 % All data subject to rounding to one decimal place.
Compliance # All KPIs are for the continuing businesses only, with 2006 restated During the year, there were no fines reported as a result of health accordingly.
and safety or environmental incidents.
However, following an Lost time accidents i. e. those resulting in lost time of one or more incident at one of our sites, a prosecution in respect of one days not including the day of the accident per 100,000 hours worked.
offence under the Provision and Use of Work Equipment Total accidents includes lost time and non-lost time accidents i. e. Regulations PUWER 1998 is to be heard in court.
Details of the where the employee returns to work on the day of the accident.
outcome will be recorded once judgement is made later in 2008.
AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 21 will help ensure that all our printed materials meet the strict FSC Product stewardship criteria, regardless of whether the individual printer is accredited We are committed to minimising the environmental impact of or not.
The FSC principles help guard against deforestation, protect our products through manufacture, use and at end of life.
We aim wildlife habitats, improve water cleanliness and protect the rights to offer our customers well designed, quality products which of local communities worldwide and also require a proactive and have been sustainably sourced, are energy efficient and have a innovative approach in the sourcing and selection of sustainable high degree of recycleability.
We are also pursuing eco-friendly paper products.
As a Group we are taking this approach in the and sustainable energy solutions to ensure that our products selection of paper merchants and printers, including those address concerns over the use of energy and the emissions in the working to FSC accreditation, ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. home.
For example: Agas cast iron cookers are manufactured from 70% recycled Customers materials, the main constituent being scrap iron which can be The Groups customer service strategy is to respond rapidly to recycled again and again: evolving customer demand, to identify and anticipate emerging Aga has introduced AIMS the Aga Intelligent Management needs and to improve continuously product availability, quality and value.
Our quality management systems help ensure that our System which is now fitted as standard on all 13 amp heat storage Agas.
AIMS allows customers to programme their products meet or exceed customer requirements with over 50% of our employees working at sites accredited to ISO 9001.
A electric Aga to go into slumber and low-output modes.
This cuts energy use and cost and reduces related CO2 emissions: number of our businesses received quality and other awards during the year.
For example, Waterford Stanley was the An Aga which uses kerosene or diesel is capable of using Manufacturing Category winner in the Business Excellence biofuels and Aga is working with several key industry players awards from Waterford Chamber of Commerce.
Waterford and leading universities at the forefront of moves to bring this Stanley also retained its Q-Mark which is Irelands National new energy source into domestic homes: Organisation Assessment Standard and we have held this Running in parallel with Agas key product design and accreditation since 1982. development work is a programme to work with other In the coming year we plan to engage further with our customers alternative energy and micro-generation specialists, on wind to ensure that our product stewardship and other customerpower, solar power and heat pumps.
The heat storage related initiatives are fully communicated.
Since the year end we capability of the Aga in effect enables energy to be have also appointed a new marketing director who will be accumulated and stored for later use: working to ensure that customer engagement and customer The new generation of Rayburn and Stanley wood burning relationship management is at the hub of all our marketing models offer customers the option of sustainable, carbon activities.
We have also launched the Love Aga campaign which neutral cooking, heating and hot water: encourages customer feedback and early results have been positive and constructive.
Rangemaster supplies both cooking and refrigeration products achieving A grade energy efficiency ratings: Community involvement Rangemaster has developed an innovative energy saving panel Each operating company and its employees are encouraged to which allows customers to either have the largest capacity become involved with and to support local community projects, 110cm oven on the market or divide the cavity in two to create educational establishments, charities and other causes.
This a smaller more energy efficient oven when only small meals are support takes various forms including donations, fundraising, being cooked.
payroll giving or personal time and commitment.
Our retail businesses also organise events and allow charities to hold Supply chain ethical trading policy meetings in the Groups outlets.
Charitable initiatives can include The board recognises the importance of managing its supply financial and product donations, equipment maintenance and chain to ensure, so far as is practicable, that its direct and indirect employee involvement.
Liaison on community issues is suppliers adopt the same core principles as the Group.
The Group encouraged and comments are logged, responded to and monitors quality, design and availability of all sourced reviewed at Group level.
Further information will be included in components and products, to ensure high standards are the Groups 2007 CSR report.
The Group introduced an ethical trading policy in 2002 which encompasses a set of global sourcing principles Verification covering fair terms of employment, human rights, health and In addition to our internal CSR audit programme, those safety, equal opportunities and good environmental practice.
All businesses certified to ISO 14001 and other standards are subject operating companies are required to review supplier compliance to regular external audits.
Since March 2002 the Group has also with this policy, identify any areas of non-conformance and take been advised by CSR Consulting Ltd, who assist the Company in action where appropriate.
The Groups supplier development evaluating its policies and procedures and with the reporting and programme has been updated to include a more comprehensive review of its CSR related performance.
CSR related risks are monitoring questionnaire to help ensure suppliers conform to included in the Groups risk management process and at present standards set by the Group.
the board does not believe that an overall external CSR audit Following an extensive review of our print and paper sourcing would be appropriate.
However, where significant issues are procedures we are working to achieve Forest Stewardship identified the Group utilises external specialists as necessary.
The Council FSC accreditation for all our printed and promotional information in this CSR report is not subject to audit by Ernst & materials.
This internationally recognised system of certification Young LLP.
AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
