Business review Chief Executives review We continued to execute with success our trading strategy, progressively Introduction hedging our output whilst targeting During 2007, we continued to deliver market or better dark green spreads sound operational and financial and retaining balanced market performance, the latter despite exposure.
Throughout the year, dramatic price changes across the we maintained our focus on delivering commodity markets which are critical added value from our trading to our business.
As a result of an capability.
This year saw us enter exceptionally warm Winter the into our first power option, first ship electricity wholesale price weakened charter and first Kyoto instrument which, together with rising coal and trade.
On top of these we have made freight prices, reduced the margins full use of the exibility and reliability previously available to coal-red of the plant through taking advantage generators.
These, amongst other of opportunities presented by the factors, contributed towards an EBITDA ancillary services market including, of 506 million, some 77 million lower for the first time, selling some than in 2006.
In 2007, we effected forward contracts for frequency our policy to return surplus cash to response services.
shareholders through a combination of an ordinary dividend, special We achieved good results on plant dividend and a share buy-back, reliability and availability and once together totalling 160 million.
again delivered a strong performance which ranked us highly amongst our Our strategy is to grow shareholder sector peers.
We undertook two major value by exploiting the strategic planned maintenance outages during and commercial value of Drax Power the year along with a substantial Station and by deploying and developing capital expenditure investment our core competencies to deliver programme.
Our safety record additional value through fuel compares favourably with that of our diversication and carbon abatement.
The strategic priorities we set In 2007, our safety programmes ourselves for the year focused our generally delivered sound performance, attention on the areas of trading, but to our regret there was a fatality production and investment in following an incident at our site improving existing plant performance involving a contractor undertaking and increasing fuel optionality.
Delivering the In 2007, we made good progress with highest standards in safety management our two major investment programmes remains a key area of focus and is to upgrade the high and low pressure central to our operating philosophy.
turbines of all six generating units and to increase signicantly our renewable biomass throughput: both importantly contributing to our commitment to reduce our emissions of carbon dioxide CO2 and helping to combat climate change.
04 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Trading overview Our practice is to sell approximately one-third of our power in the near-term markets and the remaining two-thirds in the liquid forward markets.
We broadly match our power sales with corresponding carbon and fuel positions.
As a result, annual profitability is inuenced by past, present and future commodity prices.
Our strategy is to grow shareholder value by exploiting Commodity prices at the end of 2007 the strategic and commercial value of Drax Power Station were dramatically different to those at the start of the year and within-year and by deploying and developing our core competencies volatility was very high.
The three to deliver additional value through fuel diversification commodity prices that most strongly and carbon abatement.
inuence the electricity wholesale market of Great Britain continue to be international traded prices for oil, coal and carbon.
During the year there was a 70% rise in international crude oil prices.
In the same period, and in contrast to 2006 which saw relatively stable coal prices, international coal prices increased by 90%.
The price for carbon under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme EU ETS fell close to zero in 2007 whilst traded prices for carbon for delivery in Phase II of the scheme, which covers 20082012, rose by 45%.
For most of the year, gas-red generation plant was the price setting plant for the electricity wholesale market of Great Britain with power prices generally moving with changes in domestic gas wholesale prices.
05 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Chief Executives review continued Where our coal comes from Delivering against volatile markets We need to ensure a ready supply of coal of the Against a backdrop of volatile and erratic right quality, at the right time and at the right price.
commodity prices we have continued to deliver Our needs are currently met with around 50% solid returns through our progressive hedging domestic and 50% international coals.
strategy, making full use of our access to liquid markets and increasing our forward sales.
46.3TWh sold out to 2010 Our trading focus Knowingtherisk, capturingthereward.
We have found success in selling some of our power for delivery in the future and holding some back for the near term, at all times carefully matching our power sales with purchases of carbon and fuel.
As a result we lock in value, yet have the ability to benefit from any upsides the commodity markets may bring.
06 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Gas prices were strongly inuenced Over the last two years we have by international oil prices but also been working hard to diversify and to affected by weak Winter demand optimise our fuel sourcing.
We were levels due to mild weather which, particularly pleased to increase the when combined with increased diversity of our supplies of indigenous supplies of gas into Great Britain coal through contracts with local and high storage levels, resulted in suppliers, Hargreaves UK Services some low prices in the first half of Limited and Powerfuel plc.
The margins for coal-red We now have the capability to generation were sustained at burn a wide range of coals at Drax, attractive levels for much of the year bringing with it the benets of except at times when the downward security of supply and preparedness pressure from gas prices, combined for the challenges we face now that with high international coal prices, we are operating under the tighter depressed margins.
environmental limits of the Large We continued to enjoy good liquidity Combustion Plant Directive LCPD in the traded electricity market that came into force at the start out to 2012.
This enabled us both of 2008. to manage effectively our coal and carbon positions in line with our trading strategy and to increase the volume of our forward sales.
Compared to 2006, we have modestly increased our total forward sales which, given the absence of liquidity in the market post 2012, is a significant achievement.
07 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Chief Executives review continued Our production focus 08 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 As we entered 2007, we were well The availability and reliability of our aware of the significant challenge plant is key to delivering shareholder Production overview we faced in managing our health and value.
We have set ourselves a Throughout the year we maintained safety performance amidst two major challenging, long-term target of our focus on achieving leading planned outages and an increased 4.5% for Winter forced outages.
performances in the areas of health level of site project work, which and safety, environmental compliance During the critical, high margin together represented an increase of and plant reliability.
Specically, Winter months of 2007 we achieved over 30% in the hours worked by our in delivering against our production better than our long-term target production teams and contractors strategy we implemented selective by delivering a forced outage rate compared to 2006. investment to improve plant safety of 4.2%.
The forced outage rate for performance, improve plant efficiency, Although our lost time injury rate the full year at 6.9% was higher than and maintain high availability and worsened compared to 2006, that of 2006 due largely to taking reliability compared to our sector we maintained the much improved advantage of low margin Summer peers.
Through improved work performance levels achieved in periods to conduct elective outages processes we targeted better 2005.
This demonstrates well that which contributed to the calculation productivity and we worked on the systems we have implemented of our published forced outage rates.
delivering the capability to burn over the last three years are becoming These outages allowed additional a wide range of fuels, including a embedded in the health and safety plant inspections and repair work variety of coals, biomass materials philosophy and are proving effective which have provided us with a high and petcoke.
as we increase the intensity of work degree of confidence in maintaining at the plant.
Making health and safety a priority Ensuring availability and reliability Effective safety programmes and practices are Through targeted investment we have been able embedded in the Companys philosophy.
The challenge to maintain high levels of availability and reliability is to maintain leading performance amidst an compared to our sector peers.
4.2% forced outage rate during the Winter months Reliableoutput, securesupplies.
The availability and reliability of our plant is key to delivering shareholder value.
Through selective investment we seek to make improvements to the plant and achieve our challenging, long-term target for forced outages.
09 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Chief Executives review continued Improving thermal efficiency Delivering renewable energy The largest steam turbine modernisation project Our target is to deliver 10% of our output from in the UK entailing the replacement of six high renewables by the end of 2009, reducing our annual pressure and 18 low pressure turbines will save emissions of CO2 by over two million tonnes.
one million tonnes of CO2 each year, equivalent to taking 275,000 cars off the road.
275,000 cars off the road Our investment focus Investingtoday, savingtomorrow.
Our decisions to upgrade our turbines and aggressively pursue co-firing are driven by our will and commitment to economically reduce our emissions of CO2 and preserve the long-term health of the business.
10 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 In 2007, we co-red close to 200,000 tonnes of renewable biomass and made Investment overview significant progress with sourcing Good progress was made on the two and test burning different biomass major investment projects announced materials.
During the year there was at the turn of the year.
Economic high price volatility in the agricultural carbon abatement along with fuel markets driven particularly by the diversication are key elements of our rapeseed and grain markets.
UK prices strategy to grow shareholder value.
for rapeseed and wheat both increased We believe that there is strategic by over 75% in the year.
The higher value in our environmental leadership rapeseed prices have made the position in the coal-red sector and, economics of the proposed whilst holding the position of the most development of a rapeseed crushing efficient coal-red generator in the plant less attractive, and so we have UK with the lowest CO2 emissions per not progressed this project.
The price unit of output, we strive for further increases have also had an adverse improvement.
Our decisions to invest impact on some of the growth up to 100 million to upgrade our high momentum of our local perennial and low pressure turbines and to set energy crop programmes as farmers ourselves the challenging target of increased annual food crop acreage to producing 10% of our output from take advantage of market opportunity.
renewable biomass by the end of 2009 were driven by our will and Drax remains committed to supporting commitment to economically reduce and encouraging the growth of UK our emissions of CO2.
On completion, energy crops, although the significant these projects will save over three rise in agricultural prices demonstrates million tonnes of CO2 each year in the value of the diverse sourcing support of our strategic priorities.
strategy for biomass which we have been pursuing.
It is our strategy to In the third quarter of the year, during secure biomass contracts from both the second major planned outage we domestic and international sources were able to fast track the installation across the spectrum of energy of a high pressure turbine module on crop and non-energy crop products.
This enabled us to As part of this strategy, we are placing gain valuable engineering experience, particular emphasis on environmental along with some modest efficiency sustainability in our sourcing plans.
improvements, ahead of the upgrade of two high pressure and six low In the last year we also introduced pressure turbines during the major new systems and procedures for outages on two of our generating controlling and managing projects.
This is central to the successful execution of both the strategic Our dedicated renewables co-ring projects detailed above and the project team have made good progress large number of smaller projects that in nalising the design of the new we have been implementing across biomass handling and direct injection the business, most notably plant facilities required to meet our 10% enhancement projects which deliver co-ring objective.
In February 2008, environmental, efficiency and reliability we were granted planning approval improvements.
These improved by Selby District Council for the new management systems supported facilities.
Following a competitive our execution, within budget and tender process, we are on schedule on a timely basis, of projects included to execute Engineering, Procurement in the 83 million incurred under and Construction contracts for the our capital expenditure investment co-ring facilities in the second quarter programme in 2007. of 2008, with building works expected to commence in the second half of 2008.
The facilities are planned to come on line during the course of 2009, with full completion being at the end of 2009, in line with our target.
11 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Chief Executives review continued We are already committed to substantially increasing the proportion Regulatory and market outlook of power we generate from biomass The Government published its Energy through co-ring with coal.
We believe Bill on 10 January 2008 setting out that lessons learnt in both understanding policy proposals in response to the the technology and, more importantly, UKs long-term energy challenges of in sourcing and logistics when combined tackling climate change and ensuring with the incentives through the RO secure, clean and affordable energy.
[What our people say] may present additional opportunities The Energy Bill is consistent with the for creating additional shareholder conclusions of the May 2007 Energy value and fuel diversication.
White Paper which confirmed that coal The Governments energy policy will continue to play a significant role recognises that substantial investment in global electricity generation for the in new generation capacity will foreseeable future, recognising both be needed to address the emerging the global abundance of coal and other capacity gap left by retiring coal, important security of supply benets oil and nuclear power stations and that coal brings to the energy mix, to meet anticipated increases in such as its ability to respond quickly electricity demand.
Andrew Brade Project Engineer to changes in demand.
We have long I am at the heart of the engineering design for advocated the continuing need for The requirements of the EUs LCPD, increasing our biomass co-ring activity.
I liaise with other engineers, as well as suppliers and coal in the energy mix, but we have which came into effect on 1 January engineering consultants.
always acknowledged that there can 2008, will bring about the closure only be a place for coal, and other of some 8.5GW of coal-red capacity fossil fuels, if we address the and some 3.4GW of oil-red capacity environmental challenge.
In addition, around 7GW of nuclear The UK currently generates 4% capacity is scheduled to close between of its electricity from renewable now and 2020.
The Energy Bill provides for the capacity gap may be addressed a strengthening of the Renewables by actions on the demand-side, Obligation RO to drive greater and it is nevertheless expected that more rapid deployment of renewables.
without new plant build, in the near This accords with the EU objectives term, the power markets will tighten.
Andrew Coreld Quantitative Commercial Analyst and the proposed target set by the I contribute to the work of the trading team by The ensuing market dynamics are EU for the UK of 15% renewable monitoring and analysing UK and continental power likely to be beneficial to strategic markets and UK gas markets.
This even extends to energy by 2020.
The consequent generators such as Drax power keeping an eye on the weather.
growth in renewable generation will station, with its proven technology increase the diversity of the UKs and expected generation life, energy mix and lower CO2 emissions and may also present opportunities.
In January 2008, the EU outlined There is clear recognition of the its proposals for the EU ETS beyond contribution that renewable biomass 2012.
It is proposed that the scheme materials can make towards the UKs will be extended to a third phase renewables target.
The new RO regime covering the period 20132020. should support the growth of both The cap on traded emissions by standalone biomass power plants and 2020 will be 79% of traded emissions co-ring biomass with coal.
In April Liz Howitt Assistant Safety officer in 2005 with a linear reduction of Working in the health and safety team I am responsible 2007, we saw the removal of caps and 1.74% per annum.
It is proposed that for the provision of professional safety information constraints on energy crop co-ring to managers and employees.
This may mean simply all of the allowances for the electricity whilst the new regime provides for the identifying the safest way to carry out a job.
We support doubling of the volume of permitted a traded price for carbon but we oppose co-ring of non-energy crop biomass.
full auctioning for the electricity sector in Phase III.
Oliver Baybut Environment Co-ordinator I ensure that Drax complies with all aspects of existing environmental regulations.
This entails setting and tracking objectives and targets, and making regular reports to the relevant regulatory authorities.
12 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 We consider that to introduce full All the analysis that we have done auctioning from 2013 is likely to prove reinforces our view that the electricity Looking ahead a precipitous move which could be wholesale market of Great Britain During the last two years our primary destabilising for the electricity sector will provide increasing returns to focus has been on delivering the and could lead to the early closure available capacity as the retirement strategy for the business which we of less efficient plant at a time when of some of the older plant reduces laid out on listing the Company in the reserve capacity margins across the margin of installed capacity December 2005.
This focused on the the EU are forecast to reach critically above system demand.
This will strong alignment between our trading low levels.
The proposals now must be positive for Drax and we believe and production strategies and the be approved by both the Council of that our strategic position and focus achievement of leading performance the EU and the European Parliament will give us the ability and opportunity in both areas.
We believe that we in order to become law.
to deliver value growth to our have successfully delivered this.
shareholders relative to the commodity Our strategic focus is now on producing markets in which we operate.
Our people value growth for our shareholders Dorothy Thompson Chief Executive It is the commitment and enthusiasm whilst maintaining leading performances 3 March 2008 of our people that have secured the in trading and production.
We plan progress that we have made during to increase shareholder value by 2007, and we recognise only too well developing our core competencies to their contribution to delivering against deliver significant fuel diversication our strategy and delivering value to and carbon abatement.
In the near our shareholders.
term this will be through the successful implementation of our existing two In keeping with our significant major strategic projects, upgrading developments made throughout the our turbines and biomass co-ring.
year, we have increased our headcount We believe that our biomass by around 10%.
As in the previous year, handling and sourcing capabilities we continued to recruit specialists with are areas of emerging competence the skills and experience to take our which have the potential to produce business forward.
In particular, the significant value.
We therefore areas of business development, IT, intend to further develop our risk management and trading have biomass procurement and handling seen the largest growth: it is these capability with a view to potentially areas that will enable us to explore expanding signicantly our generation and exploit new opportunities.
We placed particular emphasis on This would achieve both additional the development of our people during carbon abatement and increased 2007, ensuring that all development fuel diversication.
needs identied during our appraisal We also believe that the purchase process were addressed.
Through a of Kyoto instruments in place of CO2 tailored competency-based management emissions allowances could provide development programme for all staff significant value potential for Drax, with supervisory responsibilities we particularly in Phase III of the EU targeted all first line supervisors and ETS when there should be greater during 2008 our plans are to target opportunity for these trades, all our staff with a leadership role.
provided that there is a new The target set at the outset of the international agreement on greenhouse year for training events was exceeded gas emissions.
We will ensure that and we shall be assessing the we are well placed to capture this effectiveness of the development value potential and will work to further programme initiated as part of the build our Kyoto instrument trading 2008 performance appraisals.
13 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
