Chief Executives Review The Group achieved a marked improvement in its profits Our Severnside Recycling business strengthened its in 2006 07.
Although the results throughout the financial capability to supply the waste paper raw material for year were held back by high input costs in Packaging our own mills and to generate other revenue from its and lower profits in our UK Ofce Products Wholesaling waste collection infrastructure and expertise.
In our business, we benefited from actions taken to strengthen UK Corrugated Packaging business, we are seeing the benefit of our actions to establish a more competitive the Group and from an easing of the recent harsh trading conventional box plant network and a strong group of environment in Paper and Corrugated Packaging.
The significant attention European packaging demand combined with a tightened we have given to supporting our customers in the trend supply position for corrugated case material CCM created a rmer pricing environment in both CCM and to retail-ready packaging and promotional packaging has contributed to our growth in corrugated box sales corrugated boxes.
In this changed situation, our drive in these sectors of the market.
to raise selling prices so as to recover the previous Tony Thorne substantial increases in our input costs of energy and The considerable CCM and corrugated products price Group Chief Executive waste paper became increasingly successful.
Additionally, increases achieved during 2006 07 enabled us to our good market positions allowed us to grow our sales recover a substantial proportion of the additional volumes strongly in many sectors of our business.
approximately 19 million of input cost increases incurred during the year and the earlier margin erosion The positive trend in the Groups performance was we experienced during the previous financial year.
reected in the results for the two halves of the financial year.
While in the first half of 2006 07 adjusted The programme to raise returns in the UK Paper and operating profit was 8% lower than in the same period Corrugated Packaging segment will remain a focus of the previous year, in the second half of the year it for attention in the coming year.
was 74% higher than in the previous second half: for 2006 07 as a whole it was 29% up on 2005 06 Continental European Corrugated Packaging at 77.7 million.
Revenue advanced strongly in Continental European Corrugated Packaging.
However, operating profit in this Key features of 2006 07 UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging segment, which is a substantial net buyer of paper, was The most significant segmental profit improvement was lower at 18.2 million 2005 06: 20.1 million as Good organic growth achieved in UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging, where a result of the higher costs of CCM, which it was not across our businesses able fully to recover through increased prices during adjusted operating profit for the full year increased by Results benefited from previous the financial year.
We gained market share in all our 16.0 million to 36.5 million.
This advance was the restructuring major markets and grew sales particularly strongly in result of a combination of the extensive actions we have Spicers UK turnaround Italy, Poland and Turkey.
Our corrugated box businesses taken to raise efficiency, as well as the improved pricing programme now underway continued to benefit from concentrating on higher addedin both paper and corrugated packaging and strong Price increases in Paper value products, while our speciality paper mill in France growth in corrugated packaging.
and Corrugated Packaging had another good year, exploiting its increased capacity Strong cash ow The programme to improve the cost competitiveness as a result of recent investment.
of our business and to enhance the product mix was Our Ukrainian associate business continued to make continued during 2006 07.
In our UK Paper business, good profits and we are supporting its investment we closed Taplow Mill, which was loss-making and was programme which is designed to meet the growth not likely to be competitive over the longer-term, and in market demand and to broaden its product range.
we sold the Taplow site for a net cash consideration of 29.6 million.
We continued the development of sales Box price increases were slower to take effect on the of plasterboard liner, supported by an extensive capital continent but have started to come through strongly expenditure programme to upgrade existing machines.
These increases have We benefited from actions taken to strengthen the Group.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 5 Chief Executives Review continued not been sufficient, however, to recover the previous Ofce Products Wholesaling increases in our input costs and the pressure on margins Adjusted operating profit was marginally higher at is being compounded by further rises in CCM and 12.8 million 2005 06: 12.6 million.
The profitability energy costs in 2007 08.
In the current financial of the UK business declined, in line with expectations, year we will continue our strong efforts to achieve but this was more than offset by the growth in profits the necessary cost recovery.
from the continental European businesses.
Revenue in Spicers UK, which represents 50% of Spicers Plastic Packaging total revenue, grew but the impact of strong competition Plastic Packaging achieved a healthy advance in on pricing and higher operating costs resulted in a adjusted operating profit to 10.2 million 2005 06: significant drop in profits.
A further increase in energy, polymer and was to strengthen the UK management team and lm costs of around 5 million during the financial year Continuing attention to improving make good progress on implementing a comprehensive was almost entirely recovered through higher selling our operations contributed programme to rebuild Spicers UKs profits over a threesignicantly to our better prices and a better sales mix.
The result also benefited year period.
The new management team has taken results in 2006 07. from a 4.9% underlying advance in revenue, excluding decisive action and there is good momentum behind the plastic coating and laminating business which was a range of improvement initiatives, principally aimed sold in December 2005. at enhancing the sales mix, raising service levels and lowering costs.
The UK distribution network has been The Group has developed good market positions in its streamlined further through the closure in early June two principal sectors of returnable transit packaging RTP 2007 of the Park Royal distribution depot in London.
and liquid packaging and dispensing.
In RTP, beverage We are seeing the initial evidence of improved crate sales were particularly strong in the early months performance arising from this ongoing turnaround of the financial year but then slowed as a number of programme and further considerable benets are large contracts came to an end.
The extruded products expected over the next two years.
businesses benefited from our previous actions to strengthen the sales function and improve the sales mix.
We have On the continent, the well-established French and developed several encouraging new product opportunities Benelux businesses maintained their strong performance and are growing sales in eastern Europe in partnership and further confirmed the considerable potential for with our Corrugated Packaging operations in that region.
Spicers business model across Europe.
The businesses in Germany, Spain and Italy, which are each at a The liquid packaging and dispensing sector benefited different stage in their development, all made good from a higher-margin sales mix, sales growth as a progress.
The Spanish business opened its new result of its strengthened product range and improved distribution centre near to Madrid in October operating efficiency.
We are consulting with our 2006, which gives it better national coverage.
employees about the proposed restructuring of our European liquid packaging and dispensing operations.
The objectives within Spicers are to rebuild profitability Our Plastic Packaging segment is expected to continue in Spicers UK and continue the development of our to show steady progress.
6 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 Our People box manufacturing in our growth markets in continental Our employees have made a very significant contribution Europe and the development of Plastic Packaging to the recent improvement in the Groups results.
I am through new products and further expansion into eastern Europe.
grateful for their considerable skill and enthusiasm as we have looked to drive up our results.
I thank them Outlook for their hard work, commitment and support.
Our priorities are to continue to drive for recovery of the high input costs within our Packaging businesses Strategy and to raise profits at Spicers, particularly in the UK.
In recent years, we have signicantly changed the Entering 2007 08, the business is performing well balance of the Groups business.
We have developed and I am confident that the Group will make good our Paper and Corrugated Packaging and Plastic progress this year.
Packaging businesses in higher added-value and fasterWe are developing our revenues growing product and market sectors and grown the in new products and markets: Spicers benefited from its 2005 Ofce Products Wholesaling business in continental acquisition of Timmermans in the Europe.
At the same time, we have sold several Benelux region.
peripheral activities and closed parts of our Paper business that were not likely to be viable in the longerterm.
These moves have strengthened DS Smith and Tony Thorne provided a good base from which we can develop Group Chief Executive the Group further.
Adjusted return on average capital employed improved to 8.7% in 2006 07 2005 06: 6.5% but this remains below our return target, which is to exceed the Groups weighted average pre-tax cost of capital of circa 10% over the business cycle.
We are determined to achieve our targeted returns.
This will be done by continuing to focus on raising operational performance, exiting operations that will not deliver adequate returns and concentrating capital in those parts of the business which offer the best opportunities for profit growth.
Capital expenditure projects for 2007 08 will include completion of the upgrading of paper manufacturing at the Kemsley paper mill, the extension of the box manufacturing capabilities of our plants in the UK and France, particularly to produce higher added-value, retail-ready packaging, the expansion of corrugated DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 7
