Chief Executives Review During the year, we have updated our EEM customer.
Our businesses have clearly become product range: 100,000 extended range more competitive in meeting customers needs products have been made available over the and will continue to do so.
web from our North American and Japanese Summary offers: complete ranges of leading edge The Groups strategy is clear and its technologies have been launched wireless and implementation is leading to strong sales displays, solid state lighting, power supplies, and profit growth.
The necessary infrastructure embedded computing and the current product projects are largely behind us, and much ranges have been refreshed and increased in preparatory work has been done to enable depth.
We have improved our EEM offer delivery of the strategy.
We will focus on further promotion to make it more targeted and improving our customer offers to drive growth relevant to design engineers and done much as well as maintaining our control of costs.
Ian Mason more joint supplier promotion to leverage our Group Chief Executive While there is much hard work still to do, clear relationships with strong brands.
All of these plans are in place and the forthcoming year initiatives are generating significant incremental will be another of further progress.
revenue and re-establishing the Group as the Overview leading EEM distributor.
As well as continuing In May 2005, we committed to a plan to improve to develop our product range, new tools and the financial performance of the Group exible packaging options are being developed signicantly.
The plan had three main elements: to better serve these customers needs.
Ian Mason Focus separately on two distinct customer Maintenance, Repair & Operations MRO Group Chief Executive groups: Electronic and Electromechanical Within MRO there is an important customer EEM and Maintenance, Repair and segment involved in factory automation that Operations MRO primarily uses process control and automation PCA products.
Both the MRO and PCA Implement the Enterprise Business segments have been buoyant due to the System EBS improved outlook for manufacturing and Create a lower cost infrastructure increased use of automation in the workplace.
This year has seen a step change in the Within Europe, an extended range of products delivery of each element of the plan which from four leading PCA suppliers has been has consequently resulted in strong sales and offered over the web and sales and marketing profit growth.
The two infrastructure elements resources, including technology-specic of our plan are largely done.
The roll out of EBS discounts, have been more targeted at factory in Europe is now complete and three quarters of automation customers.
As a result, PCA is the targeted cost savings have been achieved, growing strongly across Europe.
The profitability with the remainder well in hand.
Our focus is on of the MRO product ranges has been improved our customers and continuing to build on the through range rationalisation, increasing use of enthusiastic response we have had to our own brand and better buying, with contribution improved EEM and MRO offers.
These successful initiatives will be scaled up in the coming year Electronic and Electromechanical EEM to further improve profitability.
Our EEM customers are primarily involved in electronics design and pre and low volume Customer Research electronics production.
Strong electronics Customer research in the UK soon to be market growth, technology proliferation and completed in Europe has demonstrated R&D investment make this an attractive and considerable improvements in customer growing segment to serve, and catalogue-based perceptions across all service measures and distribution is the customers preferred channel.
value for money relative to competition.
The Their primary need is access to as broad, deep actions we have taken on price and customer and innovative a product range as possible.
discounts have been recognised by the Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7
