Chief Executive Officers statement Despite the challenges of the physical retail market, our recorded music division delivered a number of creative and commercial successes.
A total of 17 albums, from artists including Norah Jones, The Beatles, Keith Urban, Corinne Bailey Rae, Joss Stone, Lily Allen and The Kooks, sold over 1m units each in the year.
EMI Music also saw strong growth in its digital revenues, which increased by 58.9% at constant currency and accounted for 10.4% of the divisions total revenue in the year.
Artists who enjoyed particular digital success included MIMS, 30 Seconds To Mars and OK Go.
EMI Music was also successful in breaking new talent in the UK and US markets, for example, Lily Allen, Corinne Bailey Rae and The Good, The Bad and The Queen.
EMI and Virgin Classics also had a good year with particular successes from Sarah Brightman, Sir Simon Rattle and the critically acclaimed soprano, Natalie Dessay.
Local repertoire successes in other countries included RBD in Mexico, Utada Hikaru in Japan and Herbert Grnemeyer in Germany.
In spite of what has been a disappointing year, we remain confident about our long-term future: while current trading conditions are difficult, consumers appetite for music has never been greater.
Although fewer CDs are being purchased, people are consuming more music, in more ways, than ever before.
We are positioning ourselves to capture these new and expanding retail opportunities by accelerating our transition into a progressive music business which is truly consumer led and Eric Nicoli well equipped for the digital age.
Chief Executive Officer To that end, we have taken a number of significant measures and adopted a new strategic focus to make our business more The year to 31 March 2007 has been challenging for EMI Group consumer orientated and better aligned with our operating primarily as a result of the worsening market conditions which conditions.
These initiatives will fundamentally change the way affected the entire recorded music industry and saw every major we do business.
music market across the world decline in revenue terms.
We estimate that the value of the global market was down by 7.6%.
In January 2007, we announced a far-reaching restructuring The 13.6% decline in physical sales was only partly offset by programme which will generate 110m of annual cost savings strong digital sales growth of 68.3%.
a significant reduction in our cost base.
Over 76m of these savings will be reflected in the financial results for the year to Despite the current environment, EMI Music Publishing delivered 31 March 2008 with the full 110m expected to be realised in the another solid performance by outperforming the recorded music following financial year.
The cost savings will be achieved largely market in the year: revenues declined by less than 1% at constant through the elimination of fixed costs across all of the regions in currency and operating margin was up from 25.1% to 26.3%.
The majority of the savings will come from This achievement is testament to the strength, breadth and depth EMI Music with the remainder from EMI Music Publishing and of our music publishing catalogue arguably the finest collection central functions.
Specific initiatives include the reduction of front of songs in the world and is also a credit to the talented team at and back office overhead and an increase in shared services EMI Music Publishing whose strategy of diversifying revenue within both divisions and across most regions - for example, streams and driving new business models has enabled them to the merging of the Capitol and Virgin labels in North America.
thrive in rapidly changing markets.
Notable successes during the In December 2006, we entered into an agreement to purchase year included songs by Beyonc, Jay-Z, Amy Winehouse, Arctic Toshibas 45% minority interest in our Japanese subsidiary, Monkeys, My Chemical Romance, the Fratellis and The Feeling.
Toshiba-EMI, giving ourselves full strategic flexibility in this market.
EMI Music experienced a difficult year with revenues declining EMI has secured additional bank financing commitments for the by 15.0% at constant currency.
This was a function of the one off cash cost of implementing the restructuring, which will general decline in the recorded music market but was also due, be in the region of 110m, and for the purchase of Toshibas in particular, to EMI Musics disappointing Christmas sales, 45% interest in Toshiba-EMI.
which resulted in the division losing market share in all territories except Japan.
9 Chief Executive Officers statement continued As part of our objective to optimise our balance sheet, we have The development of our digital business remains a top priority for begun examining a potential securitisation of our music the Group.
We will strengthen our digital capabilities across all publishing assets which we hope to complete by the end of the relevant disciplines in both divisions and in every region in which 2007 08 financial year.
We have appointed Deutsche Bank and we operate to make sure that we are fully equipped to realise the The Royal Bank of Scotland as lead arrangers for this initiative.
full potential of our music content in a digital world.
We have brought into the business a fresh team of digital talent.
With these As well as removing costs from the business, the restructuring executives contributions and ideas, we are aiming to be ahead of plan will allow us to direct our resources to areas where we can the curve anticipating trends and developing new partnerships, make profitable and sustainable returns.
We will review our products and services.
business portfolio territory by territory and, where we feel unable to achieve sustainable and profitable growth with a direct We believe that digital sales will continue to grow and we are presence, we will consider selling our music through licensing excited about the possibilities offered by partnerships with new agreements.
We will also pursue partnerships which allow us to business models.
In the past year we have multiplied our digital continue to extract further leverage from our operating distribution channels globally by entering into agreements with infrastructure, such as distribution and administration partners who will make our music available across their platforms arrangements.
We are open to experimenting with all emerging business models with the objective of providing our A fundamental aspect of our strategic change has involved consumers with compelling propositions.
simplifying the Groups management structure to make it more streamlined and agile, particularly within the fast-developing EMI Music was the first major music group to experiment with digital arena.
mobile  services in the US and Europe, through a trial conducted by Rhythm New Media and T-Mobile, As a result, since January 2007, we have implemented a number in which free music videos embedded with advertising were of changes to strengthen our expertise at both the corporate offered to consumers.
On 12 January 2007, I took on direct responsibility for EMI Music and reorganised the business into A central component to EMI Music Publishings digital strategy three geographic divisions International, UK & Ireland and has been spearheading the Centralised European licensing North America.
This created a one-stop shop where media companies can obtain a licence for our repertoire across Jean-Francois Cecillon was promoted to the newly created role all of Europe, thus making it easier for innovative and new of Chairman and CEO, EMI Music International, with responsibility partnerships to happen and to ensure that artists are paid for the operations in Continental Europe, Japan, Asia, Latin appropriately.
Our content helps a number of industries to build brands, sell Tony Wadsworth, as Chairman and CEO of UK & Ireland will products and services and generate revenue in a myriad of continue to play a significant role in providing repertoire for global exciting and innovative ways.
We will aim to seize opportunities and local distribution as well as establishing and disseminating and capture revenue from all parts of the music value chain best practice across the Group.
which are profitable and depend on our artists content.
In April 2007, Roger Ames was appointed head of EMI Music We continue to invest in artists and repertoire A&R as it is North America.
Previously, Roger had been working as a senior fundamental that we generate fresh, high quality, new music and adviser to EMI Music and, prior to that, he was Chairman and add to our rich catalogue.
Our A&R strategy remains centred on CEO of Warner Music Group and Executive Vice President finding and nurturing artists and songwriters with the potential to of PolyGram.
enjoy long-term commercial success from multiple releases and across all revenue streams.
This approach has resulted in both On 6 March 2007, Roger Faxon became the Chairman and our music and music publishing divisions building up strong CEO of EMI Music Publishing which concluded the previously portfolios of content.
However, potential for improvement announced succession plan for our New York-based remains, especially in North America.
We believe that we have established a strong, experienced and talented management team with exceptional creative and business-minded executives at the international and local levels across our operations.
We also continue to identify and develop highly capable leaders throughout the organisation.
10 While A&R remains essential to our business, we appreciate that it is also vitally important to devote resources to motivating consumers to buy our music.
Our strategy includes strengthening our consumer marketing capabilities and gaining a better understanding of the varying and increasingly complex demands of consumers.
Connecting our artists and songwriters with their fans has always been our primary goal and we strive to do that as conveniently as possible while offering good value for money.
EMI is committed to embracing change and to developing products and services that consumers desire, in our determination to drive our digital music business.
In short, we are focused on providing consumers with a truly compelling experience as we believe that this will ultimately drive sales and growth.
An important component of this strategy was our recent decision to create a new premium digital product which is free of digital rights management DRM and which offers consumers superior sound quality.
Our download research has demonstrated that consumers want greater freedom to move their music between various devices, which DRM can prevent, and that there is also a demand for better sound quality.
We believe that we must provide consumers with greater choice, quality and freedom in order to stimulate the continued strong growth of the digital market.
We acknowledge that it has been a difficult year for EMI and the music industry as a whole but we are fundamentally redesigning our business to make it fit for the future.
Eric Nicoli Chief Executive Officer 11
