Filtrona Values Business Review Chief Executives Review TEXT TO COME Figure 1 1 TEXT TO COME Filtronas key markets 3 2 1 6 1 3 1.
00% TEXT TO COME 0 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Our style Our responsibilities Our goals We will be open, honest and We will share our company strategy, We will strive to delight our customers enthusiastic, celebrating our and ensure we understand the part and hold the respect successes and learning from we play in it of our suppliers our experiences We will all have clear goals, the We will work together to grow We will be passionate in our pursuit of necessary resources and freedoms our business for the benefit excellence and dedicate ourselves to to achieve them, and honest of our stakeholders the very best of quality in everything assessment of our performance we do We will always conduct ourselves We will work as a team, valuing with integrity and respect for our everyones contribution and fellows and for our environment minimising bureaucracy We will aim to advance our We will treat each other in a knowledge, skills and professionalism consistent and fair manner in all we do We will do our best and accept accountability for our actions Overview Strategy Filtrona is an international, market leading, speciality plastic and Filtronas long-term objective is to continue to grow fibre products supplier with activities segmented into Plastic profitably for the benefit of all its stakeholders through Technologies and Fibre Technologies.
investing organically and by acquisition in selected markets within, or complementary to, plastic and fibre technologies.
Filtrona derives strength from serving a wide range of The Companys strategic focus is to build on its core customers, across diverse geographies within a broad competencies through the development and acquisition but targeted range of international markets.
of businesses which are engaged in the manufacturing, sourcing and distribution of high volume, low unit cost, Filtronas key markets are shown in Figure 1 and represent small but essential products for use in consumer and important consumer and industrial product segments.
With its extensive flexible manufacturing and distribution capability, Filtrona is a supplier throughout the world to The identification and successful exploitation of markets many international, blue chip, market leading customers and which offer significant value addition and growth opportunities the top ten customers in 2007 represented 36.7% of revenue.
through product innovation, distribution, service and cost improvements are integral to the future development of As the Company seeks to continuously improve operational Filtrona as the Company seeks to enhance the competitive performance and provide new innovative solutions, Filtrona position of its global businesses.
anticipates that the quality and breadth of its product and service offering combined with cost competitiveness will With a responsible winning culture based on Filtrona Values provide opportunities for growth with current and new and Key Strengths, the reputation of the Company and its customers and expansion into new and existing markets employees forms a sound basis for the successful delivery of across international boundaries.
new business and market opportunities designed to secure long-term value for Filtronas shareholders.
In 2007, the geographic destination of the Companys revenue was as shown in Figure 2.
The Rest of World Performance segment includes many of the lower cost manufacturing In 2006 Filtrona reported a good performance in its first and higher growth regions and represents 19.5% of revenue full year as an independent public company.
In 2007 the in 2007 as the Company increasingly focuses on Company accelerated its rate of profit growth before development in higher growth markets such as China, restructuring costs, despite the negative impact on profits India and Indonesia.
from currency translation caused by the further depreciation of the US dollar against sterling.
Filtrona also completed its first significant acquisition since the June 2005 demerger, with the valuable addition of the Duraco business to the Protection and Finishing Products division.
0 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Strategic Aims Business Review Grow profitably Invest organically Acquire in selected markets Build on core competencies Deliver long-term value Figure 3 Operating profit before intangible amortisation and Number of restructuring costs was up 8.8% to 64.4m 2006: 59.2m.
12 month moving average accidents Operating margins improved to 13.0% from 11.4% in 2006. accident trend 2007 per month At constant exchange rates operating profit before intangible 42 amortisation and restructuring costs was up 14.2%.
Revenue 40 at constant exchange rates was flat, whilst reported revenue 38 was down by 4.4% to 494.2m 2006: 517.1m due to the 36 combined effects of currency translation and the previously 34 announced revenue reductions in the Cigarette Filters 32 division.
Excluding the Cigarette Filters division, revenue 30 J F M A M J J A S O N D growth for the remainder of the Group was up 5.1% at constant exchange rates.
The adverse impact of currency translation during the year was 2.8m on operating profit before intangible amortisation and restructuring costs, and 22.9m on revenue.
Figure 4 Number of lost The cash inflow from operating activities of continuing 12 month moving average time accidents operations was again strong at 84.9m 2006: 77.2m up lost time accident trend 2007 per month 10.0%.
Return on average operating capital excluding intangible assets continued to improve, up from 24.8% in 6.7 2006 to 26.8% in 2007.
Return on average total invested 6.5 capital, including intangible assets and goodwill previously 6.3 charged to reserves, improved from 13.1% to 13.9% on a 6.1 pre-tax basis.
Adjusted earnings per share grew by 10.3% 5.9 from 15.6p to 17.2p and, excluding the impact of currency 5.7 translation, adjusted earnings per share grew by 15.4%.
5.5 J F M A M J J A S O N D 0 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Key Strengths Strong international market positions Long-term customer relationships Well invested flexible global infrastructure Experienced management team Reputation for quality and innovation Operational efficiency Corporate responsibility water and waste savings.
As a responsible corporate citizen Filtronas development of a responsible winning culture the Company looks to exploit opportunities to benefit the recognises the role which the Companys relationship with its financial performance of its businesses in a manner employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders and consistent with environmental sustainability.
its interaction with the environment may play in securing competitive advantages across its divisions.
In support of its commitment to the quality and standards associated with its principal manufacturing facilities, The skills and commitment of Filtronas employees across Filtronas objective is to secure ISO 14001 and OHSAS the world are fundamental to ensuring the quality and 18001 accreditation across all of those sites no later than competitiveness of the Companys portfolio of products and the end of 2008. services.
The Companys commitment to its employees is reflected in the quality and safety of the working environment Total accidents and lost time accidents are two non-financial and the personal development opportunities which it seeks to key performance indicators within Filtrona, recognising the provide at each of its locations, without discrimination primary importance of robust health and safety management between site or people.
and recording its role in securing operational efficiencies.
Filtronas reputation as an employer is important to ensure the The total accidents statistics record every incident which attraction and retention of suitably motivated, experienced resulted in first aid and were recorded in the accident book, and skilled personnel.
The customer and supplier perception whilst the figures for lost time accident records accidents of Filtronas values and standards of conduct across a variety which resulted in employee absence for more of regions and cultures can impact on the development of the than one day.
The improvement in Filtronas health and safety longstanding business relationships which the Company has performance during 2007 is illustrated in Figures 3 and 4. maintained and continues to foster.
Filtrona strives to maintain the highest ethical standards at all times in the conduct of its Further details on Filtronas Corporate Responsibility can be international operations.
found on pages 26 to 29 of this Report.
Filtronas drive towards continuous improvement and cost Mark Harper reductions across its global manufacturing and distribution Chief Executive footprint requires an ongoing assessment of operational 28 February 2008 efficiencies and securing the benefit of potential energy, 0 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
