Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Interview with Don Robert, Chief Executive Officer We have so many great opportunities that probably our biggest challenge is deciding which ones to focus on next.
14 | Experian Annual Report 2007 20 Last year alone we rolled out over 20 new products How have things changed for Experian since What are going to gaining independence?
be the main challenges For the great majority of us at Experian it has been for Experian going forward?
We have a clear strategy for growth, We have so many great opportunities that probably our which were continuing to implement with enthusiasm biggest challenge is deciding which ones to focus on and confidence.
The only significant change is that most next.
As with any business, issues can occasionally of our employees are now shareholders, which was the surface that are beyond our control, but we have the result of a grant of shares at the time of the demerger.
advantage of not being overly dependent on any one For me this was one of the best outcomes of Experians geography, client, channel or economy for our success.
It means that our people have a real stake One challenge we face all the time though is the need in the future of the company and can align themselves for talented people to support our growth plans.
We are even more closely to our goal of creating value for a people business in the real sense of that word and we shareholders through sustained profitable growth.
pride ourselves on being able to attract employees with the skills and ambition necessary to develop and grow Were you pleased with the Groups performance our business.
Talent management is one of our top last year?
priorities and indeed our talent plans are regularly Yes, I was delighted with our performance.
It was our reviewed by the Group Board.
fifth consecutive year of double-digit sales and profit growth, which is a significant achievement by any How is Experian preparing for the future?
We did exactly what we said we would do.
By being in the right markets with the right products and We delivered strong organic growth: we improved our the right people leadership.
Innovation is key to our margins: we achieved strong cash generation and we business and ensures that we continue to provide clients continued to deliver against our strategic objectives.
Last year alone we rolled as important is that it was a balanced performance, out over 20 new products.
We are also expanding into which came from all our principal geographies.
new geographies to create future platforms for growth and to enable us to support clients on a global basis.
We Where do you see the best future growth are continually investing in our future - in people, in opportunities for Experian?
products, in acquisitions and in our infrastructure.
Experian is well positioned to take advantage of many long-term growth trends.
In our core credit markets, we What do you think Experian will look like in are seeing government departments and companies in five years time?
sectors such as telecommunications and healthcare Well be bigger, with a greater presence in more wanting to make use of the expertise we first developed countries.
Our clients will be even more diverse and we in financial services.
Fraud prevention is one example of will be firmly established in many different sectors how we are successfully transferring this expertise to beyond our original financial services and retailing different market segments.
We are also seeing clients markets.
We will have an increasing number of clients wanting to communicate with their own customers over who rely on us to deliver wide-ranging solutions across multiple communication channels and to switch more of many different geographies.
Our Decision Analytics their advertising expenditure to new media.
This is good products will have become the global standard in for our marketing businesses and enables us to capitalise their respective niches and will be deeply embedded on investment in services such as email delivery and within our clients decision-making processes at an market research.
The continuing growth of the Internet is enterprise-wide level.
We will be a recognised leader in creating tremendous opportunities for our Interactive all types of customer acquisition through our Interactive businesses as consumers make greater use of this and Marketing businesses.
And many more consumers medium for information and purchasing.
And, of course, will have Experian websites bookmarked as their we are also seeing increasing demand for our skills from favourite sites for saving money and making important emerging markets such as China, India, Latin America financial decisions.
and Russia, which is helping to drive our geographic expansion.
Experian is a business with multiple What is it about Experian that makes you growth drivers.
Whenever I visit an Experian office, wherever it is in the world, I am struck by the energy and enthusiasm of the employees I meet.
We are fortunate in having a great team of committed people, who I know share my optimism about the future for Experian.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 15 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Business review Overview Nature of business Markets in which Experian operates Experian has a widespread and balanced portfolio by Experian is a global leader in providing product type, by vertical market served and by country information solutions to business clients served.
In the year to 31 March 2007, 44% of sales came from Credit Services, 12% from Decision Analytics, We help organisations to find new customers and develop 21% from Marketing Solutions and 23% and manage existing relationships by providing data, from Interactive.
decision-making solutions and processing services.
We also help consumers to understand, manage and protect their personal information and help them make more informed purchasing decisions.
Experians vision is that our people, data and technology become a necessary part of every major consumer economy around the world.
Data: At the core of Experian are comprehensive databases of credit and marketing information on both consumers In the year to 31 March 2007, 58% of sales came and businesses.
These databases, derived from both public from the Americas, 25% from UK and Ireland and and private sources, contain extensive high quality 17% from EMEA Asia Pacific.
information that not only has historical depth, but also significant breadth across various types of data.
The comprehensive portfolio of data maintained by Experian makes us a partner of choice for many clients as we offer more information than any single competitor.
Decisions: Building on this foundation of data, Experian uses proprietary analytical tools to analyse and interpret the data and to help business clients to turn raw data into critical decisions in a timely and consistent manner.
Our Financial services clients account for 53% of our sales, tools also help consumers to make more informed financial followed by 14% in direct-to-consumer, 11% for retail and purchasing decisions more quickly.
and home shopping, 7% from telecommunications, utilities and insurance and the balance from Distribution: Experian has a very broad distribution network government, publishing and media and automotive.
helping both business clients and consumers.
We sell to clients in over 60 countries around the world, in many different markets including the financial services, retail, telecommunications, automotive and public sectors.
This broad distribution platform is unmatched within the global information solutions industry.
As described on pages 4 to 11, Experian has four principal activities: Credit Services, Decision Analytics, Marketing Solutions and Interactive.
Our business is managed on a geographic basis with the three key regions being: the Americas: the UK and Ireland: and Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific EMEA Asia Pacific.
This structure enables Experian to understand the different needs and constraints of each local market and to serve both domestic and international clients effectively within each region.
Additional detailed information on Experian is available in Explaining Experian which can be viewed on our Group website at www.
60 We sell to clients in over 60 countries 16 | Experian Annual Report 2007 % 85 We have over 100,000 clients, of which the top ten Competitive position 85% of our top 50 clients have been account for 17% of sales and the top 50 clients 36% Although we have doing business with of sales.
competitors in each of our Experian for at least principal activities, there is no five years single competitor capable of offering the broad range of products and solutions that Experian is able to provide to domestic and multinational clients around the world on the same scale.
There is limited, if any, public information available on the market share of each of Experians competitors in We employ more than 13,000 people with offices each geographic region and across each principal activity.
In particular, because of the breadth of Experians products offered around the world, we often compete We own and operate consumer credit bureaux in 14 against niche local providers of services in our markets.
countries and business credit bureaux in 7 countries.
However, there are a number of larger and readily We classify one billion consumers globally by identifiable companies that we view as our key socio-demograpic type in over 25 countries competitors, which are summarised below: around the world.
Credit Services: there are two other national consumer As a result of this diversity, Experian is not overly credit bureaux in the US Equifax and TransUnion.
In the dependent on any one geography, client, channel or UK, Experian is the clear market leader in consumer economy.
While Experian as a whole is clearly dependent credit with mainly local competition elsewhere.
Dun & on the economic environments in which we operate, our Bradstreet is the only global business credit competitor.
broad portfolio of products and markets served gives us Decision Analytics: the market leader in the US is Fair some resilience when our major markets weaken.
New Isaac: outside the US, Experian is the major player, facing products also affect Experians performance, as does our mainly fragmented local competition.
success in gaining share in our chosen markets.
Explaining Experian details some of the economic Marketing Solutions: there are some large competitors in indicators that Experian monitors.
the US such as Acxiom and Harte-Hanks but competition elsewhere is local, fragmented and often specialist.
Interactive: Experian is the clear market leader in selling credit reports and services direct to consumers ahead of Equifax, TransUnion, Fair Isaac and other specialist providers.
Our sales are more than twice the size of any of our competitors.
The online lead generation market is fragmented and Experian has strong market positions in our chosen areas of operation.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 17 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Overview cont.
% 10 All acquisitions must deliver a minimum 10% post-tax return Growth drivers Increase in multi-channel over time Experian is well positioned to benefit from a number of marketing: companies are using key drivers of long-term growth.
These include: more channels to communicate with their customers - away from mass Global growth in consumer credit: this leads to media such as broadcast and print and increased demand for data from our credit bureaux towards email, the Internet, SMS and interactive TV.
and increased use of our Decision Analytics tools to Our newer Marketing Solutions activities benefit from help clients control credit risk and prevent fraud.
this trend as we help clients to target the right customer, with the right message, through the right channel.
Increase in demand from new vertical markets: clients in sectors such as telecommunications, automotive and government want to use the same data and tools that Experian has successfully developed for the financial services industry.
Increased use of the Internet by consumers and businesses to both research and buy products and services: companies are switching more of their marketing spend to the Internet, which helps our Interactive and Marketing Solutions activities.
Increase in demand from new and emerging high growth geographies: as the use of consumer credit, for example, increases in areas such as Eastern Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America, this will drive demand for Experians data and decision tools, although it is difficult to gauge the ultimate size of some of these markets.
