70409 Pre 1 30 5 07 20:51 Page 4 4 Annual report and accounts 2007 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement Dr Chris Fay CBE.
Chief Executive Officer The Board is delighted to report a strong set of results for the financial Segmental review year ended 31 March 2007, reflecting the successful execution of our Regional Businesses strategy and continued growth across the expanded Expro business.
Expro completed the operational and customer facing aspects of These results include nine months of contribution from Power Well the PWS integration during the second half of the financial period.
This acquisition marked a step change in the The majority of the PWS portfolio operates within Expros development of Expro.
However, importantly, this acquisitive Regional business segment.
To best manage this business and performance has complemented robust organic growth from both serve our customers we implemented the Eastern and Western the existing Expro and acquired PWS businesses.
This combined Hemisphere operating structure, further broken down into a total a growth has generated an underlying earnings per share of 37.8 of seven global regions.
Each is focused on their respective pence, a 52% increase on the same period last year.
Whilst the strategic rationale for the b basis earnings per share of 34.1p grew by 41% compared with the PWS acquisition was entirely driven by future growth which prior period.
The Board is recommending an increase in the final inevitably takes time to mature, the combination has yielded dividend to 8.0p 2006: 7.1p bringing the full year dividend to cost synergies, earlier and higher than planned.
This increase in dividend balances the Boards mass in areas of operations is a vital part of Expros business confidence in the sustainability of the achievements to-date whilst strategy.
Under our strategy, the new geographic structures and recognising the continuing need to reinvest in the business.
PWS acquisition have significantly advanced this objective.
Expro has a focused strategy aimed at delivering a balance Enhanced Expro contracts are in place in key markets such as between short and long-term shareholder performance.
The Saudi Arabia, Brazil and Norway, giving clear evidence of acquisition of PWS in July 2006 has strengthened Expros customer acceptance and providing a basis for future progress.
position as a global top-tier supplier of oil and gas services in most of the key upstream markets of the world.
Our portfolio now Western Hemisphere contains a blend of technology and market reach, ideally positioned for the high activity levels of the late cycle.
In the Western Hemisphere, managed from Houston, Expro has established significant presence in both South and North Markets America.
Our strategic focus for the Western Hemisphere is clearly on technically appreciative markets with the majority Market conditions for upstream services remained positive during of our activities in Brazil, deepwater Gulf of Mexico and the year.
In addition, the market saw the beginning of the unconventional gas plays of North America.
a notable change in the strategic direction of our international Western Hemisphere total revenues were up 183% at 97.9 customers.
Their focus is increasingly turning to subsea, and million.
Highlights include a new four year Petrobras contract in particularly deepwater provinces, where they see greater future Brazil.
This contract is the first of its kind in Brazil for Expro and opportunity.
This in turn has fuelled strong demand for high opens the way for continued progress in this highly active offshore specification floating rigs, capable of meeting our customers market.
In North America, our Power Chokes business had an operating objectives out to and beyond 2012.
The acute shortage excellent year.
This business focuses on the high pressure and of these high specification rigs has led to a dramatic increase in unconventional North American gas fracture market which has semi-submersible day rates and initiated an intensive new-build been relatively resilient to fluctuations in domestic gas price.
programme to increase capacity in this high value segment.
In addition, national oil and gas companies have increased their In the period we withdrew from the Canadian commodity domestic focus, and consequently their activity levels, as they market via the disposal of Expro Canada to Enseco Energy strive to achieve enhanced oil and gas recovery from increasingly Services Corporation.
This reflects our strategy to compete in ageing assets.
Expro has a well established position with markets where we can demonstrate differentiation through international customers and the acquisition of PWS has given technology and quality.
Expro greater exposure and a stronger presence in many of the national markets, particularly the Middle East, Brazil and Norway.
a Underlying EPS is based on continuing and discontinued operations and is before exceptional items and intangible asset amortisation that arises on business combinations and is calculated under note 11.
Exceptional items are classified as those which management has identified and disclosed as material one-off or unusual items.
In the prior year, exceptional items comprise gains on disposal of businesses.
b Headline EPS is based on continuing and discontinued operations and is before exceptional items but includes amortisation arising on business combinations and is calculated under note 11.
70409 Pre 1 1 6 07 10:51 Page 5 Annual report and accounts 2007 5 Group Revenue Total Geographic Revenue Europe FSU 189.0m 6% 7% West Africa 80.6m 12% 36% N. Africa Middle East 46.6m 38% Asia 72.6m 14% N. America-Land 62.1m 62% N. America-GOM 34.8m Global 196.9m 9% 16% Latin America 33.1m Regional 321.9m Highlights include a new four year Petrobras Expro Core Values contract in Brazil.
This contract is the first of Service its kind in Brazil for Expro and opens the way Our service provision will for continued progress in this highly active be recognized by excellence offshore market.
in all our operations and a determination to exceed our customers expectations Performance Innovation Regional Revenue 321.9m up90% 70409 Pre 1 30 5 07 20:51 Page 6 6 Annual report and accounts 2007 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement continued IN THE SECOND HALF OF THE YEAR EXPRO CONTINUED TO MAKE MATERIAL PROGRESS IN THE THREE BUSINESSES WHICH MAKE UP OUR GLOBAL BUSINESSES.
Throughout the region national staff content is increasingly essential to meet our operating requirements as well as In the Eastern Hemisphere, the PWS combination has government regulation.
This is a common feature, not just in our increased capability in three of our existing regions: Europe FSU, West African business, but globally.
The combination of Expro and West Africa and Asia, and allowed us to create a new PWS has given us access to skilled national personnel across all management focus in the substantial markets of North Africa and our operating regions.
PWS has given Expro excellent new positions in Saudi Arabia and Egypt, and the acquired activities in Algeria and Libya have been integrated with existing Global Businesses Expro operations, to create a strong regional presence for In the second half of the year Expro continued to make material investment and continued growth.
As a consequence, full year progress in the three businesses which make up our Global revenues for the Eastern Hemisphere increased by 66% businesses: TronicMatre, Subsea safety tools and Production to 224.0 million.
Our position in Europe FSU was also materially improved with the TronicMatre continued to benefit from the global growth in addition of a very strong Norwegian business.
This market is very new subsea wells providing instrumentation and connectors, appreciative of technology, and Expro is already benefiting from resulting in full year revenues of 46.5 million, an increase closer links with Statoil, as they move into overseas locations.
In the year Tronic performed many addition, our position in Kazakhstan has also been enhanced.
The technology Front-end Engineering Design studies for UK North Sea continued to grow and to provide good opportunity customers with future requirement for seabed power applications.
for technology deployment as our customers strive to reduce These studies relate to technical feasibility for future prospects operating cost and recover late cycle reserves from this ageing and are usually a key lead indicator of new business some but politically secure province.
Whilst still an important market for 24 months out.
Expro, the Groups dependence upon the region has dramatically reduced in recent years.
Our flagship Subsea safety tools business is now benefiting from our previous investment in technology development.
In the year In Asia, where it is essential to establish areas of critical mass, the the business grew 47% to 57.4 million.
Included in this integration of PWS has provided a strong basis for growth.
There performance were many firsts for Expro and the industry.
The are three main areas of focus for this region.
In Australia, where build and delivery of the Tahiti high pressure, electro-hydraulic, Expro has been established for many years, progress in ultra-deep tools for Chevron in the Gulf of Mexico was a the period was very good.
Malaysia made good progress significant milestone.
Tahiti has pushed technological barriers driven by the commencement of the PWS initiated within the industry and we continue to strive to assist our pan-Malaysian welltesting and subsea tools contract for Shell.
international customers develop increasingly difficult deepwater In Indonesia we continue to make progress.
Likewise our specialised tools have also been The West Africa region is primarily focused on two large extensively deployed in the West Africa deepwater developments operating countries, Nigeria and Angola.
Our Angolan business by BP, Total and ExxonMobil.
is entirely deepwater focused, where we have an excellent Production Solutions also had an exceptional year growing position providing technology essential to the exploration, 84% to 73.1 million.
The highlight was the outstanding development, commissioning and maintenance of deepwater performance for ExxonMobil on their Chayvo project on fields.
Our blue-chip, international customer base has been Sakhalin Island.
This 14 month project was completed at the end investing throughout the period and we expect this to continue for of the calendar year when Exxon commissioned their many years to come.
In Nigeria we have a more diverse business full production plant.
As a result our production facility became portfolio, although these operations are experiencing similar redundant and Exxon elected to exercise their right to purchase conditions to the deepwater business.
The addition of PWS has the system for future use.
This project was exceptional in equipped Expro with a strong local workforce to service this terms of complexity, performance and value to Expro.
Highlights in the period include the period also saw the build, delivery and commissioning of establishment of a material operating capability in Angola, where Chevrons Dibi production barge in Nigeria.
This barge was Expro has successfully deployed welltesting facilities on seven custom built in-country to produce up to 50,000 bbl of liquids deepwater semi-submersible rigs for Total and BP.
This increase in from the Dibi field.
capability has required recruitment and training of national 70409 Pre 1 30 5 07 20:51 Page 7 Annual report and accounts 20077 Chayvo Expro Core Values Production solutions also had an exceptional year Service growing 84% to 73.1 million.
The highlight was the outstanding performance for ExxonMobil on their Performance Chayvo project on Sakhalin Island.
This 14 month Our performance will be defined project was completed at the end of the calendar by the delivery of superior financial year when Exxon commissioned their full production results and a reputation as a plant.
The project was exceptional in terms of socially responsible company complexity, performance and value to Expro.
Innovation The project had many challenges, not least the fact that Sakhalin Island, located off the coast of Siberia, is a harsh, remote environment with temperatures ranging from -40C to 35C.
Global Revenue Performance: Key Challenges: Environment 16 months from award to first oil 196.9m Fast-track delivery 500 operating days Licensing, certification 14 million bbls of oil produced Logistics No Lost Time Incidents up50% 70409 Pre 1 30 5 07 20:51 Page 8 8 Annual report and accounts 2007 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement continued EXPRO IS NOW WELL POSITIONED TO GROW WITH BOTH NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL OIL AND GAS CUSTOMERS.
These are the Expro strengths and form the Technology foundation of our focused strategy.
We continue to invest heavily in New technology development remains essential to our positioning niche technology opportunities, enhance our customer care, and significant progress has been made in all areas of Expros develop critical mass in the areas we choose to operate in and focused strategy.
Record investment levels have been dedicated to maximise the Groups operating leverage.
The successful execution develop and deliver the next generation of Expro technology.
of our strategy has helped fuel our performance and positioned us Our flagship AX-S rigless intervention concept continues to take to benefit from what we believe to be positive market conditions for shape.
Good progress, both technical and commercial has been next year and beyond.
The detailed engineering phase was substantially completed and discussions over an initial commercial Board and Management framework commenced to secure funding assistance and initial Colin Ainger retired as Corporate Development Director on 6 July field trial applications.
The market for subsea well intervention is 2006 having served the company for 24 years.
Colin was originally developing very quickly.
Our major international customers are appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 1992 and helped looking for technically innovative, cost effective solutions to increase lead the Group through the Management Buy Out and the recovery factors from their expensive subsea assets.
John McAlister joined the Board as Group commercial progress of our Subsea tools business is directly linked General Counsel on 12 June 2006.
John has joined us from to our efforts in technology development and activity throughout the National Grid PLC where he was Deputy Group General Counsel.
period has kept us focused on meeting the future customer needs.
Mike Martindale retired as Chief Operating Officer on Technology development also features highly in our Regional 31 December 2006.
Mike served the company for 11 years, business.
Our investment in cased hole logging technology spending four years as Chief Operating Officer.
Mike was continues to make progress in delivering unique solutions to succeeded by Gavin Prise, who was appointed Chief Operating clients.
In the UK North Sea, Expro installed the worlds first Officer on 1 January 2007.
Gavin has held several positions within cableless subsea well monitoring system for BP.
The CaTS tool Expro, most recently as Director of the Eastern Hemisphere was deployed in an abandoned well to determine connectivity with operating region and brings extensive industry experience to the nearby Clair platform.
Other world firsts were achieved using the Board.
CaTS technology offshore Australia to monitor pressure and Tim Eggar has decided not to seek re-election as a non-executive temperature behind casing in a producing well.
director as he wishes to expand his other business interests.
Tim Downhole video technology continued to gain client acceptance will stand down at the AGM on 5 July 2007.
We successfully introduced our new ViewMax product the Board as a non-executive director on 30 May 2007. with a rotating horizontal camera into the Gulf of Mexico and The Board would like to record its appreciation to Colin, Mike and Canada saving operators many hours of rig time by simplifying Tim for their valuable service and welcome John, Gavin and Bob operations.
In addition, new enhanced video technology was to the Board.
successfully integrated into traditional sensors with the Finally, we would like to thank all of Expros dedicated employees introduction of the WIT Water Investigation Tool and the around the world for their continuing enthusiasm and support.
The WIT tool has already gained excellent client acceptance in Canada and CalVid is beginning to displace traditional caliper logging in the North Sea market.
Dr Chris Fay, CBE, Chairman Outlook The integration of PWS has given Expro a broader international Graeme Coutts, Chief Executive Officer identity and an enhanced platform to progress our strategies, delivering a positive outlook for the coming period and beyond.
Expro is now well positioned to grow with both national and international oil and gas customers.
We have a technology portfolio suited to meet our customers ongoing requirements and an outstanding talent pool of national staff to progress these relationships.
In the flagship deepwater markets where operating costs are high, our customers are focused on technical innovation 70409 Pre 1 30 5 07 20:51 Page 9 Annual report and accounts 2007 9 The build and delivery of the Tahiti Expro Core Values high pressure, electro-hydraulic, Service ultra-deep tools for Chevron in the Performance Gulf of Mexico was a significant milestone.
Tahiti has pushed the Innovation Innovations will prove our technological barriers within the constant determination to industry and we continue to strive to find new and better ways to solve problems assist our international customers develop increasingly difficult deepwater reserves.
