08 Ferrexpo plc  Company overview Chief Executive Officers review Our strategy explained The Groups principal aim is to enhance overall value for its shareholders, through a strategy of: Positioned for accelerated growth Existing operations  In2007,   FPM centred   .
Atthestartoftheyear, wesetouttoachieve  , inestablishinghealth, safetyand EBITDA .
 , whilstensuring  EBITDA US$million 65%  , we .
185.2 149.1 246.1 Ferrexpo plc  Company overview 09 1 3 5 7 8 Increasing production of iron Deriving substantial value from its Increasing sales into growing Managing the Groups cost Upgrading existing assets and ore pellets by optimising and significant unexploited iron ore markets for iron ore and extracting base by reducing its exposure procuring additional capital expanding the extraction reserves through the accelerated value through the Groups to energy market volatility and equipment to achieve target of iron ore from its current development of the nearby advantageous logistical position other cost fluctuations.
production levels in excess of open-cut mine on the Yeristovskoye, Belanovskoye and and its enhanced operational 32mtpa of pellets by 2018.
2 4 6 Implementing best practice Leveraging its relationships Continuing to develop the Groups mine and facilities operations with its existing global customer logistical capabilities to match its at Ferrexpo Poltava Mining FPM, base to grow market share and growing production.
enhancing efficiency support the Groups increased and reducing operating costs.
 Growth projects , in , weinformed Our key strategy   .
10 Ferrexpo plc  Company overview Chief Executive Officers review continued     expansionprojects.
Anewoperating  organisation, separatefromFPM, isbeing customers,   .
Attheendof2007, DTP  approximately85%ofoursalesweremade , andtheseare , mostof    benchmarkprices.
However, weareactively     customerservice, tomaximiseoverall      constraints.
 Ferrexpo plc  Company overview 11  Fromacostperspective, theindustryhas acapacityof5mtpa.
,  Mike Oppenheimer  Chief Executive Officer  surge,    .
