Revenue Chief Executives review UK Rail 1,824.1m All of our businesses have delivered a UK Bus 1,073.7m North America 802.9m very strong performance.
Our strategy Excluding other revenue of 8.1m is focused on delivering high quality services for customers and value for shareholders.
Operating profit UK Rail 108.8m UK Bus 103.0m North America 68.2m Excluding central items of 20.8m Overview primarily as a result of non-recurring rail franchise Safety mobilisation costs and lower property results.
Strong cash The safety and security of our passengers and staff is generation is a feature of this business and I am pleased to fundamental to everything that we do.
We continually seek report that the Group generated record EBITDA adjusted to improve the safety culture throughout our business and operating profit plus depreciation of 398.9m 2006: apply a zero tolerance approach to unsafe acts and 351.7m an increase of 13.4%, enabling us to continue practices.
Over the past few years we have made great to invest in the business as well as increasing the dividend strides in improving our working practices and procedures by 10% for the third consecutive year.
and in monitoring our performance in this area.
We are never complacent and continually strive to meet the UK Rail highest possible standards of safety for our passengers The UK Rail division operates passenger and freight and staff.
For example, our Injury Prevention Programme services in the UK.
We have a strong, balanced portfolio IPP is not only innovative but unprecedented in our of intercity, regional and commuter franchises.
I am pleased to report that IPP has been rolled out rail franchises consist of First Great Western, First Capital across all of our operations and is designed to engage all Connect, First TransPennine Express and First ScotRail.
our staff and encourage good safety practices to embed We also operate Hull Trains, a non-franchised open access the safety culture in all of our operations.
intercity passenger train operator, and we provide rail freight services through GB Railfreight.
We are the UKs Results largest rail operator carrying almost 260 million passengers I am delighted with the excellent performance of the per annum.
Group which has delivered a record year of growth.
Adjusted operating profit was 259.2m Our successful rail division has delivered its best ever 2006: 229.7m.
This strong performance is all the more year of growth.
We are committed to the long-term notable as we have faced strong headwinds during the development of railways in the UK and are investing to year, primarily the significant rise in fuel costs.
In these deliver improved services for passengers.
We are the results operating profit was impacted by 37.1m by only operator to run every type of overground rail service additional fuel costs.
Foreign exchange translation on in the UK, from high speed intercity trains and overnight North American results reduced sterling earnings year on sleepers to local branch lines, regional and commuter year by 3.8m - the average rate for 2006 07 was $1.89 services and open access, light rail and freight operations.
Profit before tax was We will continue to build on our reputation of investment, 140.2m 2006: 157.4m reflecting higher one-off costs innovation and customer service.
3 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 As we improve our services to A year into the franchise First Discounted tickets such give people a real alternative to Capital Connect is working on as First Great Westerns using cars and other transport a range of initiatives to increase firstminutefares have been modes, bus and rail passenger capacity across the network.
More than numbers continue to increase We have started a programme 100,000 are available each with strong volume growth in to refresh our Class 319 trains, week and 2.2 million have both our UK Bus division and part of our 30m investment in been sold in just nine months, across our UK Rail division.
saving customers 28m compared with the equivalent walk up fares.
Revenue in the Groups rail division increased by 56.6% overcome.
The new timetables which will be introduced in to 1,824.1m 2006: 1,164.9m and operating profit May and December this year will further improve services.
increased by 36.7% to 108.8m 2006: 79.6m reflecting a full year contribution from the new and enlarged rail As part of our 145m investment to completely overhaul franchises together with strong volume growth across the High Speed Train HST fleet, we have commenced the our network.
Across all of our rail operations we have installation of new more reliable, environmentally friendly experienced good growth in passenger volumes.
We have already fitted 42 new engines which have improved operating performance, doubled reliability, First Great Western cut CO emissions by 64% and smoke emissions by 42%.
2 At First Great Western we are working hard to ensure that The remainder of these new engines will be in place by we deliver our franchise plans and we are investing 200m the end of this year.
We are also making good progress to improve the services we offer our customers.
Since on our fleet refurbishment programme.
A new stylish and we commenced operation of the new enlarged franchise contemporary interior for the HSTs will offer a step change combining First Great Western, First Great Western Link in quality for rail passengers and provide an additional and Wessex Trains we have integrated three diverse 3 million seats for passengers per annum.
The first of these railway businesses into one operation.
First Great Western new designed carriages are now in service and we are operates more high speed trains into London than any on track to complete the refurbishment of more than other operator and provides train services for 1.5 million 405 carriages by the end of the financial year.
We are also passengers each week.
spending 4m on an interior refresh of our fleet of regional trains.
The new platform at Bristol Parkway opened in May During the past 12 months we have consolidated depots, 2007 and will ease congestion of trains into and departing introduced a new management structure and common from the station and reduce delays for passengers systems, brought together 4,400 staff, introduced new travelling to London, Wales, Birmingham and the South amalgamated timetables, commenced a substantial fleet West.
We are working with Network Rail to upgrade the refurbishment programme and started the many major majority of the Reading to London relief line to 90mph improvements which we committed to as part of our by mid-2008 creating greater capacity, reliability and franchise.
Despite our best efforts to ensure a seamless improved journey times for commuters in the Thames transition we faced some operational challenges Valley.
We have progressed our plans to deliver a range principally as a result of changing the rolling stock of improvements across the franchise area including the maintenance depot and the introduction of a new installation of automatic ticket gates at Exeter St Davids, consolidated timetable.
We made great efforts to swiftly Plymouth and Swindon, reducing both ticket fraud and rectify those issues, the majority of which we have now crime on the railways.
We have also invested in station 4 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 First Capital Connect has First Great Western and Our 145m Refresh invested 1m to provide Network Rail are investing programme of the First Great 24 Police Community Support 1 billion across the franchise Western HST fleet will improve Officers and five British in the next two years.
Our reliability, deliver punctuality Transport Police Officers for investment will improve benefits and enhance our the network and has started to punctuality and reliability customers journeys.
New introduce gatelines at stations and provide customers engines for the entire HST fleet to further improve security for with an additional 3 million will reduce fuel consumption customers and employees.
by 15% and carbon dioxide emissions by 64%.
improvements such as the installation of more than 120 additional ticket vending machines, increased car parking 145m at stations, refurbished facilities and waiting areas at a number of stations across our network.
We have HST investment simplified our fares structure and now offer more than 100,000 significantly discounted tickets each week for advance purchases and off peak travel.
For example, firstminutefares enables our customers to save up to 80% on regular fares when booking early.
This has been very popular and already more than 2.2 million tickets have been sold saving customers a total of 28m compared to the equivalent walk up fare.
First Great Western faces major challenges from ageing infrastructure and the effect this has on performance.
We are working closely with Network Rail, the infrastructure provider, to tackle the deep-rooted performance issues on the network and overcome the recurring infrastructure problems on our main line.
A number of initiatives have been designed to offer our customers.
During the year we commenced the improve performance and we are committed to working refurbishment of waiting rooms and facilities at a number in partnership to deliver improved infrastructure and of our stations across the network.
In addition we services across our network.
embarked on a programme to refresh the interiors of our Class 319 fleet.
Eight units have already been completed First Capital Connect and we will continue to roll this out to the remaining units First Capital Connect, which operates across London and in due course.
In December last year we announced a the South East, had an equally busy first 12 months of further investment of 2m, over and above our franchise operation and made an overall improvement in operational commitment, to improve the interiors of the trains that performance.
PPM, the industry measurement of operate on the Great Northern route.
This additional work, punctuality and reliability, improved to over 88% and which will improve on-board comfort for passengers, we were particularly pleased to achieve the highest ever commenced in March 2007 and will be completed by the recorded PPM of over 95% on the Great Northern part of end of the year.
During this period we also brought the the network.
We are investing 55m, the majority in the first engineering of our fleet in house which delivered greater three years of the franchise term, to improve the service we service quality and cost efficiency.
In April 2007 we 5 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 At First TransPennine Express Overall customer satisfaction Our successful and innovative we have invested 250m in with First ScotRail has reached freight business GB Railfreight new trains, improved station its highest ever level at 88%, has won 45m in new contracts facilities and delivered a more according to a survey by with customers including Royal punctual and reliable service.
Punctuality Mail, Metronet, Serco Rail Customer satisfaction has and reliability are improving operations and Drax Power and increased and we were across the network and First added to its fleet with a 28m awarded four titles at the ScotRail has reduced delays investment programme.
HSBC Rail Business Awards by 39% since the start of the 2006, including Rail Business franchise in October 2004. of the Year.
of additional staff to carry out further ticket checks and the installation of automatic ticket gates at a number of stations across the network including Blackfriars, City Thameslink and Stevenage.
Further automatic ticket gates will be installed at key stations across the network in the coming months.
We have also invested over 1m to provide additional Police Community Support Officers and British Transport Police to serve our network.
These initiatives are proven to improve security, reduce ticketless travel and lessen vandalism.
First ScotRail We are proud to operate Scotlands train services through our First ScotRail operation.
Since we took over the franchise in October 2004 we have established a successful record of delivering improved services for passengers together with a strong focus on operating welcomed the announcement by the Department for performance and service quality.
We have reduced Transport that the remaining 12 Class 319 trains will operator delays, for which we are responsible, by some be transferred to First Capital Connect from Southern 39%, over and above our franchise commitment of 2% Railway.
These trains will provide up to 8,000 extra per annum.
Performance has continued to improve over seats per day during the peak periods and help to ease the year and we are now regularly running services at crowding on our very busy Thameslink route.
In addition more than 90% punctuality.
We were pleased to record improvements to be introduced in the May timetable will the highest PPM performance in seven years for the last also increase capacity at peak times, providing more period.
In addition customer satisfaction has been seats for customers in the morning and evening peak with recorded at its highest level and outperformed the average additional services and an increased number of carriages for regional train operators.
During the year we continued on some of our busy routes.
One of our key priorities is to to invest in fleet reliability and passenger comfort and also improve security on the network and reduce ticket fraud provided additional services to meet demand such as through improved revenue protection.
We have provided increased late night services on 18 routes out of Glasgow customers with improved ticketing facilities and have Central on Fridays.
Increased security and revenue already reduced revenue leakage through the introduction protection is a key priority and we have installed automatic 6 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 First Great Western is Hull Trains introduced an First TransPennine Express introducing new and improved additional weekday service has introduced an entire fleet catering services including between Hull and London of new trains.
This, combined a redesigned buffet and an Kings Cross taking its total with our focus on performance extended at-seat service.
number of weekday services and customer service, has led Every year First Great Western to seven in each direction.
to passenger satisfaction customers consume nearly Over 2 million passengers have reaching a record high.
1 million litres of tea and now used Hull Trains services.
coffee, 400,000 litres of mineral water and over 1 million sandwiches.
ticket gates at stations including Aberdeen, Ayr, Dundee additional funding from the Department for Transport to and Stirling.
Security is further enhanced by the installation provide accessibility improvements such as automatic of CCTV on almost the entire First ScotRail fleet and we doors, disabled facilities and ticket counters at stations are continuing our investment programme to roll out across our network.
During the year we successfully CCTV, customer information systems, induction loops managed the integration of the Manchester Airport to and help points at stations across the country.
Over the Blackpool routes which we took over in June 2006. last year a number of investments have been made to We have demonstrated our competence in delivering improve the level and availability of facilities at stations in the process both smoothly and cost efficiently.
In February 2007, an extension to Haymarket December 2007 we will further extend our TransPennine Depot in Edinburgh was opened.
This extension of two network to operate the Manchester Airport to Glasgow maintenance facilities will assist in further improving and Edinburgh services.
We are very proud of our the reliability of the Class 170 and Class 158 fleets, by achievements at First TransPennine Express and were providing the opportunity for more trains to be maintained delighted that our efforts were recognised by the industry more quickly.
when we were awarded an unprecedented four national awards, including Rail Business of the Year at the HSBC First TransPennine Express Rail Business Awards 2006.
First TransPennine Express had another successful year with excellent operational performance coupled with Hull Trains strong revenue and volume growth reflecting the high Hull Trains, our non-franchised, open access intercity demand for its services in the region.
Passenger journeys train company operating between London Kings Cross increased by 7.3% to 18.5 million during the year.
and Hull, performed well during the year with strong Our focus on performance has ensured that PPM is passenger volume growth which increased by 30%.
In consistently over 90% and overall customer satisfaction December we were pleased to be awarded an additional has exceeded the national average for all train operators.
train path by the Office of Rail Regulation bringing our Since we commenced operation of the franchise two number of weekday services to seven in each direction.
years ago we have introduced an entire fleet of brand new This clear response to passenger demand ensures that 100mph Siemens trains which have a range of new, high we can offer our customers a greater choice and level quality features such as improved seating, air conditioning, of service.
Our focus on operational performance has on-board security cameras and easier access for all ensured that we are once again ranked as the most reliable passengers.
We continued our station investment long distance operator on the East Coast Mainline with programme during the year and spent 2m refurbishing performance figures that exceed the industry average for waiting areas and customer and staff facilities.
We secured long distance operators.
7 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 On 9 February 2007 At First Student over 6,500 All our North American FirstGroup announced drivers have now been trained operating companies now the $3.6 billion proposed in the Smith System Advanced participate in the Automotive acquisition of Laidlaw Driving module, which focuses Service Excellence ASE International, Inc. the leading on five keys to safe driving.
programme for training operator of school buses, the and testing technicians.
provider of Greyhound bus services and a supplier of public transit services in North America.
GB Railfreight services and delivering on large investment programmes.
We are pleased with the progress of GB Railfreight GBRf, Our bid team is highly experienced and committed to our innovative and demand responsive freight company.
delivering plans that meet the needs of passengers by GBRf enjoyed another successful year winning further bringing new investment and improved services that are contracts worth some 45m to provide rail freight services cost efficient.
around the UK for customers such as Drax Power, EDF Energy, Mendip Rail and Serco.
In addition, we were North America pleased that Royal Mail extended a contract for GBRf In North America the Group is currently the second largest to move mail by rail, demonstrating the success of the provider of student transportation with approximately operation and the service provided.
In August 2006 we 22,000 yellow school buses operating every day across successfully commenced a significant contract to the US and Canada.
We operate a transit contracting and transport infrastructure materials for Metronet as part management business in North America and we have a of the renewal programme on the London Underground.
services division providing fleet maintenance and ancillary In March 2007 we were pleased to run the first freight train services to public and private sector clients.
transporting coal between the Port of Tyne directly into Drax Power Station in North Yorkshire.
We have invested Our North American business has delivered solid and in a number of freight locomotives and wagons in order to consistent returns for shareholders since we entered the support the new contracts and the ongoing development market in 1999.
During that time we have generated of the business.
GBRf has delivered further growth and $1,335.8m of EBITDA.
This division is cash generative after contract wins through the development of its innovative self-financing maintenance capital expenditure, organic and customer focused business model and we are growth within existing contracts and the acquisition of optimistic about the future prospects for this business.
New franchises Our successful growth in North America confirms our This has been a busy year for the Group as we view that this is a highly attractive market which offers commenced operation of our two franchises First Great significant growth opportunities for our business.
We Western and First Capital Connect and integrated the have built up significant experience and expertise in new areas with existing operations.
We are committed to this marketplace and believe that it offers opportunities a long-term future in the UKs railways and are delighted to to deliver further attractive earnings growth and value be shortlisted for three further franchises: East Midlands, for shareholders.
New Cross Country and InterCity East Coast.
We have an impressive and unrivalled track record of integrating 8 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 First Transit is the industry First Student carries over The proposed acquisition leader in specialised 1 million students to and of Laidlaw will create a strong transportation management from school every day.
From platform to secure long-term services with more than Alaska to Florida and from growth in our North American 20 paratransit management Massachusetts to California the business.
On completion, the contracts nationwide.
Our primary focus and mission of deal will create North Americas call centres handle over our drivers and technicians is leading transport services 4.6 million transportation to transport students in safety.
company operating over calls every year.
4.6m calls handled every year Results We were pleased to retain almost 100% of our business I am pleased with the performance of our North American in Canada which remains an attractive market for First division which delivered margin improvement during the Student in which we aim to grow further.
Revenue in Looking forward we had a successful bidding season these results is 45.8m lower than the prior year due to and continue to focus on profitable growth and margin foreign exchange movements.
Our strategy is to continue to improve our to 68.2m or $130.5m 2006: 67.1m or $120.2m despite product offering and closely manage our cost base in order absorbing additional fuel costs of $11.2m or 5.9m.
to offer a compelling service to our customers, parents and students.
This year sees the further rollout of new First Student technology such as GPS and Zonar equipment which We have had a successful year within our school bus provides us with detailed and accurate information which business despite continued fuel cost pressure.
US Dollar will enable us to schedule services and labour more revenue increased by 5.4% and operating profit rose by efficiently as well as provide our customers with real time 14.7%.
During the year we have worked hard to mitigate information about services.
the impact of cost pressures through the contract renewal cycle and have won or renewed business on First Transit terms which reflect the increased costs that we face.
First Transit had a successful year with US Dollar revenue Margin enhancement has been a priority for us this year increased by 1.7% and operating profit by 15.6%.
Our and through contract bidding, tight management of strategy to improve the margin and implement a significant controllable costs and a strong focus on productivity cost control and efficiencies programme throughout the we have improved margins to 10.9% 2006: 10.0%.
division has delivered good results with margin increased We enjoyed a good bidding season with contract to 4.9% 2006: 4.3%.
retention, which is a key feature of this business, at over 95%.
We continued to grow our share of this large, During the year we continued to grow the business with the fragmented market through a mixture of new contract award of new business including paratransit contracts in wins, organic growth and in-fill acquisitions.
During the California and Ohio.
We also continued to grow our share year we expanded into Sedona, Arizona and we won of the outsourced call centre market with a new contract in a significant contract in Savannah, Georgia.
This is in line with our strategy to further penetrate we completed five tuck-in acquisitions in New Jersey, the faster growing light transit markets in North America.
Connecticut, New York and Illinois that either complement We now operate ten call centres in cities such as Chicago, our existing operations or enable us to enter new markets.
Denver, Hartford, New York and Portland.
9 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 First Student successfully Thousands of First Students Our First Vehicle Services At First Student our driver retained over 95% of its buses utilise the latest, statelocation in Fort Wayne, Indiana turnover has reduced by 3.5% contracts which came up of-the-art safety and security was named most efficient fleet this year.
Our management has for renewal during the year.
advances, including GPS at the Best Fleets in North been working hard to identify First Student has more than and Zonar, a hand-held America awards.
Fort Wayne ways to improve driver retention doubled in size since we computerised inspection tool operates a 1,400-vehicle fleet including an increased emphasis entered the North American used by school bus drivers prior with a 99% average overall on communication to ensure market in 1999 by winning to and following every bus trip.
vehicle availability and has good information flow and new business, organic growth We continue to invest in the reduced maintenance costs enable employees to raise and in-fill acquisitions.
latest technology to ensure the by 15% over the last decade.
safety of the students we carry.
margin and continues to deliver returns.
We continue to grow our expertise in this market and develop potential for future profitable growth.
First Services This year First Services, which provides a range of outsourced vehicle maintenance, operations and support services in the private and public sectors, renewed a significant contract within the large, federal market.
US Dollar revenue was, as anticipated, down by 1.9% reflecting the renewal, at a lower margin, of a substantial contract to provide land-based support services to the US Navy.
This important contract with revenues of over $450m over the term was re-awarded to First Services for ten years in July.
Our strategy is to achieve organic growth within the existing contract through the provision of additional add-on services.
We We were also awarded new transit management business also won new business in the large federal market through through contracts won in Iowa, Ohio, Texas and Virginia.
the award of a contract to provide support services to the We were pleased to win the contract to operate more Defense Logistics Agency in San Joaquin, California.
than 170 buses in El Paso, Texas and renew a contract in We expanded our fleet maintenance business with new Minnesota for an additional five years.
The private shuttle business wins for the City of Newport, Rhode Island and bus market is an area of growth for First Transit and during Ocean Township, New Jersey and with customers such the year we acquired Cognisa.
This in-fill acquisition as Eastman Chemical, Allegheny Power and Motiva Shell.
further strengthened our presence in the US private shuttle Looking ahead our focus is to achieve organic growth bus market with 19 customer contracts located across within the large federal contracts and continue to use our seven states.
First Transit is one of the leading providers expertise and strong track record of customer service to of shuttle bus services with contracts to serve airports in grow in these areas.
cities such as Cincinnati, Houston, Miami, Philadelphia, Portland and Las Vegas.
I am pleased with the progress Proposed acquisition of Laidlaw International, Inc. made at First Transit this year.
This business, which On 9 February 2007 the Group announced the proposed requires little or no capital expenditure, has improved its acquisition of Laidlaw International, Inc. the leading 10 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 This year First Vehicle Services First Student has worked First Transits acquisition of First, Sheffield City Council and introduced an online quarterly very hard to progress its safety Cognisa more than doubled South Yorkshire Passenger customer service survey.
Over culture and safety performance.
our shuttle bus business Transport Executive signed 90% of our customers are This year we achieved adding a further 19 customer The Sheffield Bus Agreement, either satisfied or very significant reductions in contracts located in seven a Voluntary Quality Partnership satisfied with the service employee injuries, collisions states across the US.
Agreement that will lead to a that is delivered.
range of significant measures, including 16.9m of funding, that will benefit millions of First customers in Sheffield each year.
operator of school and intercity bus transportation and Laidlaw Education Services which operates approximately a supplier of public transit services in North America for a 40,000 yellow school buses in 37 states in the US and six consideration of $3.6 billion.
We have received approval provinces in Canada.
from both FirstGroup and Laidlaw shareholders, and the acquisition now remains conditional on the receipt of Greyhound is the only national provider of scheduled necessary antitrust approvals in the US and Canada.
intercity bus transportation services in the US and Canada.
We are working with the relevant antitrust authorities Greyhound provides scheduled passenger services to to provide the necessary information, including the approximately 2,400 destinations throughout the US and Department of Justice to comply with their second Canada carrying approximately 24 million passengers request process.
We consider Greyhound to be an attractive business with exciting growth prospects and have This is a transformational deal with considerable committed to carry out a strategic review of the business.
This is a unique opportunity to establish the leading position in the North American Laidlaw Transit Services provides municipal public transportation market and generate significant value and transportation services in North America specialising returns for shareholders.
In bringing together FirstGroup in paratransit and fixed route contract services in America and Laidlaw we believe we can create a stronger, approximately 23 states in the US.
more robust business in a highly fragmented market.
We aim to leverage value through scale and grow earnings UK Bus through improved operating efficiencies and extraction The Group is the largest bus operator in the UK with a fleet of substantial synergies.
This acquisition will provide of nearly 9,000 buses and a market share of approximately a strong platform for us to improve our offering to 23%.
We carry over 2.9 million passengers every day.
customers by bringing further operational and cost efficiencies, economies of scale and a greater range of Results services.
Since the announcement we have made good I am pleased to report another year of strong trading progress on a number of plans for the integration of performance from our UK Bus division.
to 1,073.7m 2006: 1,031.2m as a result of revenue and passenger growth initiatives and increased journeys Laidlaw International, Inc. has some 62,500 employees including concessions and pricing.
Operating profit was and operates three main business segments in the US 103.0m 2006: 98.4m.
This is a particularly notable and Canada: achievement as operating profit was adversely impacted by 28.2m as a result of increased fuel costs.
11 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 We have been working hard We are the first major bus Our UK Bus division was We introduced the UK Bus to improve connectivity with operator in the UK to publish named winner in the Skills for Engineering Apprentice Awards many airports across the our punctuality and reliability Life category at the Business in recognition of the hard work UK and Ireland and have data.
This is part of our mission in the Community 2006 and dedication of our engineering introduced York Aircoach, to meet customers travel awards.
This year 1,100 bus talent from across the UK.
This a new service between York needs by providing a quality drivers received vocational annual event acknowledges railway station and Leeds service in the local area that qualifications.
20% of our bus successful completion of Bradford International Airport.
is sustainable, profitable, and drivers are now qualified with apprenticeships and recognises of which we are proud.
more planned for this year.
We continue to deliver improvements in operational passengers continues to deliver encouraging results in our performance and efficiency within the business.
Passenger numbers are increasing throughout improvements in quality, allied to initiatives to tightly our operations, supported by growing numbers of control our costs, continues to underpin our strategy of concessionary fares passengers benefiting from the margin enhancement.
Depot and route optimisation, a Governments introduction of a new scheme in April 2006. focus on headway management together with revenue and We are seeing particularly strong growth in passenger passenger growth initiatives, contributed to a turnaround numbers where, working in partnership with local in profitability and service quality of operations.
We are authorities, we are delivering measures to improve the also implementing a programme to target a consistent punctuality and reliability of our services.
level of fleet cleanliness and appearance.
I am pleased to report that the significant investment in our maintenance We are pleased to report the commitment of local and engineering functions in recent years, and the authorities across the UK to delivering improved bus implementation of initiatives to improve engineering services for passengers through partnerships.
In efficiency and planning and to standardise our processes, November we signed a Stability and Growth Pact with has continued to reduce our lost mileage this year.
Glasgow City Council and Strathclyde Partnership for Transport.
The pact will bring major improvements to In London we have focused on operational performance Glasgows bus services including an annual Route and cost efficiencies and are pleased to report that our Development Plan, a Joint Performance Improvement overall punctuality and reliability has improved again this Plan to make significant improvements in punctuality and year.
Our operations in the West of London are currently reliability and sustained growth in bus passenger numbers top of the Transport for London TfL league tables.
In with a commitment for reasonable fares.
The pact builds preparation for the western extension of the Congestion on the citys award-winning 30m Streamline Partnership Charge, TfL increased the frequency of a number of our between First and Glasgow City Council, Strathclyde services to provide additional passenger capacity.
Passenger Transport and the Scottish Executive last year.
We welcome the Governments commitment to buses and At the start of May 2007 we signed The Sheffield Bus its recognition that buses are a crucial part of our transport Agreement, a Voluntary Quality Partnership VQP system, set out in Putting Passengers First.
We believe Agreement with Sheffield City Council and South Yorkshire that the industry has demonstrated that the most effective Passenger Transport Authority.
We believe that this way to deliver better services to passengers is through agreement is the most comprehensive VQP ever agreed.
Working in partnership The agreement will give customers a more stable network with local authorities to deliver improved bus services for and improve the reliability of bus services by delivering 12 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 ftr is now in its second year Three years after the initial We have invested more than and a new scheme started group of 36 Polish bus drivers 40m in our bus operations in Leeds in January.
We are were deployed to Bath and in Manchester to support delighted by the reaction of Bristol our European Union passenger growth.
By working our customers, our employees recruitment programme has with local authorities we are and our stakeholders.
A delivered over 1,200 staff to delivering more punctual recent independent customer our UK Bus division with a and reliable services for survey in York showed a retention rate of over 90%.
significant financial investment and improvements to the bus services for passengers.
We continue to address citys bus infrastructure.
Over the next two years we will issues within our direct control, for example, by introducing invest 10m in new vehicles, extra CCTV cameras on new timetables to improve the punctuality of our services.
buses and training programmes for staff.
The Transport The PIP process has highlighted that, in order to achieve Executive and the City Council have invested 4.4m improvements in service performance in some cases, during the year and have agreed to invest 2.5m in the highway alterations and other infrastructure works are coming year which will be used to fund infrastructure required.
Some of these are already being addressed by improvements.
We are working in partnership with the four Unitary In January this year we started our second ftr service in Authorities in the Greater Bristol area to deliver improved Leeds.
ftr was first launched in York in May last year and bus services in the region.
The authorities have submitted uses state-of-the-art articulated tram-like vehicles.
We final plans to the Department for Transport for ten have seen passenger growth of 28% on the York ftr service Showcase routes as part of the Greater Bristol Bus and continue to be encouraged by positive feedback from Network.
The network will see a major investment of some our customers, local authorities from across the UK and 49m in new infrastructure, including bus lanes, road from wider stakeholders.
Independent customer research widening, improved bus stops, enhanced traffic controls showed an 87% satisfaction rating amongst passengers and Real Time Passenger Information as well as some using the ftr service.
We continue to develop plans for 20m in new buses.
This demonstrates the strong working further ftr services and our scheme in Swansea will start relationship which delivered the first Showcase route in next year.
Bristol, now operating very successfully, and a second Showcase route due for completion later this year.
We are pleased with the continued development of Aircoach, which operates express coaches between All of our operating companies are working on plans to Dublin city centre and the airport and contracted services improve the punctuality of our bus services on a routefor airport car parks.
The company continued to perform by-route basis.
We are the first of the major operators well during the year and significant passenger growth at to publish punctuality and reliability data by operating Dublin Airport has benefited both our scheduled and our company and are working with local authorities in all of contracted car park services.
We are using the Aircoach our operating areas to develop Punctuality Improvement model to introduce new services in the UK and recently Partnerships PIPs.
We developed our first PIP with launched York Aircoach, a frequent, express, direct coach Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive and service between York rail station and Leeds Bradford now have a number of PIPs in progress to deliver improved International Airport.
13 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 This year we introduced The key to having a trained, First and the Transport and This year Hull Trains became biodiesel to all of our UK Bus motivated and customer General Workers Union the latest of our companies operating companies and focused workforce is making signed the first national to achieve the prestigious started a programme to support sure we recruit and retain the agreement on life long learning Investors in People standard.
Through improved that will encourage and We are committed to All of our new buses have Euro recruitment processes and a support a culture of learning continuously improving our IV engines further reducing fuel comprehensive learning and and continued personal performance by investing consumption and carbon dioxide development programme development throughout in our people.
driver turnover in our UK Bus the UK Bus division.
division is at a record low.
We welcome the Governments announcement franchise which links Denmark and Sweden.
While North encouraging local initiatives in support of improved America remains our primary market for growth and school transport services.
We pioneered the introduction international expansion we continue to explore of American style yellow school buses into the UK and opportunities in new markets.
We recently made a modest one of our first pilot schemes in West Yorkshire was investment in Germany of 130 buses in the Rhein-Neckar the precursor to Metros MyBus initiative, which has region.
This small entry into Germany enables us to build successfully reduced congestion at the school gates by a greater understanding of the market as it continues giving parents a high quality alternative to using their cars to liberalise.
Group outlook Capital expenditure was focused in areas with potential All of our businesses have delivered a very strong for high passenger growth.
Towns and cities including performance.
Our UK Rail division continues to go from Aberdeen, Bradford, Bristol, Glasgow, Leeds and strength to strength.
This year we commenced operation Manchester were among those who benefited from our of two new enlarged franchises.
We have made significant 57m spend on new low floor, easy access buses this year.
investment across all of our rail businesses to deliver improvements in rolling stock, capacity and services for We were delighted that our commitment to investing in our passengers.
Demand for our services continues to people at all levels was recognised at the Business in the accelerate with passenger and income growth across all Community Awards 2006.
The Rentokil Initial Skills for of our rail operations.
We are delighted to pre-qualify for Life award, supported by the Department for Education a further three franchises: East Midlands, New Cross and Skills and in association with Investors in People, Country and InterCity East Coast and await the outcome recognised our joint strategy, with the Transport & General later this year.
I am pleased with the strong trading result Workers Union, to improve recruitment, retention and from our UK Bus division despite absorbing additional fuel motivation.
Our learning and development initiatives, costs of 28.2m.
We have delivered improved operating together with improvements to our recruitment and training performance and volume growth.
Increased passenger programmes and our European recruitment programme, journeys, together with our initiatives to grow revenue has reduced driver turnover to an all time low.
and bear down on costs, have resulted in a strong performance.
We continue to promote a partnership Europe approach to delivering a comprehensive and sustainable We continue to invest in European bidding activity.
We bus network in the towns and cities where we operate and have submitted bids for Connexxion in the Netherlands have seen encouraging growth as a result.
Our North and also, with our partner DSB, for the resund rail American business has enjoyed high contract retention 14 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Our Injury Prevention FirstGroup won the award We are one of the Major Programme is innovative, for Continuing Environmental Supporters of Scotlands bid unprecedented in our industry Excellence at the Network Rail for the 2014 Commonwealth and designed to engage all Environment Awards 2006, Games.
A First ScotRail train, our staff in safety and embed for innovative environmental specially wrapped in the a safety culture in all of our initiatives introduced throughout Commonwealth Games Bid operations.
This year lost time the Group over the years, which livery, will travel the length injuries have been reduced demonstrated a proactive and breadth of Scotland in by 31%.
approach in all areas of the months leading up to the environmental management, final decision on the 2014 including our stations and Host City.
We are seeing the positive impact of our strategy to mitigate fuel cost pressures through the contract renewal process.
The Board is pleased with the consistent returns generated from this business since we entered the market in 1999 and remains confident that North America offers further exciting growth prospects for the Group.
Our strategy is focused on delivering value for shareholders from further growth within our core businesses and exploring opportunities to develop in new markets.
For the third year running we have increased the dividend by 10% reflecting the Boards confidence in the Groups future prospects and ability to continue to generate strong cash flows.
We are committed to this level of annual dividend growth for the foreseeable future, at least for the next three years.
I am pleased to report that trading in the new financial year has started well and is in our ongoing efforts to implement best practice in these line with our expectations.
After consultation with independent CSR auditors, corporate governance professionals and our shareholders Corporate Social Responsibility CSR we decided to incorporate all of our existing policies into CSR is at the core of our business.
We believe that in order one Group CSR Policy.
to deliver sustainable growth CSR must be embedded in the vision and values of a business.
Our aim is to transform Safety is our highest priority.
We are continuously the way people travel and how they feel about public developing and improving our processes to ensure that transport.
Our management of key issues such as safety, a Safety First culture is embedded throughout the environment, our relationships with customers and our Group.
We strive to ensure that our services are as safe employees is at the heart of our strategy and key to as possible for our passengers and our staff.
Over the last achieving our vision.
year we have worked very hard to improve our safety culture and performance.
We have accomplished This year we reviewed the content of our Code of Business significant improvements including significant reductions Ethics and Group Equal Opportunities Policy as part of in employee injuries, collisions and passenger injuries.
15 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 As the UKs leading public FirstGroup was presented This year, as part of our ongoing transport operator we have with the gold award for our efforts to implement best a unique opportunity to environmental submission practice in these areas, we improve the environment in the Transport, Freight and produced an updated Group by helping to reduce traffic Highways category at the CSR Policy.
After consultation congestion, carbon dioxide 2006 Green Apple Awards.
with independent CSR emissions and air pollution.
auditors, corporate governance We are working hard to professionals and shareholder reduce the environmental groups we included among impacts of our operations.
other things, specific reference to Freedom of Association through a secret ballot which employees tell us is important to them.
We have pioneered and rolled out safety standards over promote the Smith System of Defensive Driving to further and above the requirements of the safety regulators.
Our improve our safety performance and to further reduce the Injury Prevention Programme IPP, which has been rolled possibility of incidents likely to lead to passenger or out throughout the Group, is innovative and designed to employee injuries or collisions.
engage all our staff in safety.
The aim of IPP is to ensure that action is taken to report any matters of safety and to We continue to receive recognition for improving our resolve them promptly in order to prevent any harm from environmental performance.
At the Green Apple Awards occurring to anyone.
Lost time injuries across the Group we were presented with a gold award in the Transport, have reduced by 31% this year.
However, we are never Freight and Highways category.
We also received the complacent and strive to ensure that we continuously Continuing Environmental Excellence Award at the improve our performance in this critical area.
Network Rail Environment Awards 2006 and were runners up in the National Business Awards for Scotland 2006 in Our people are often the first point of contact between the Scottish Power Environmental Awareness Awards.
We our customers and our business and are central to our are pleased that our commitment to integrating corporate success.
Their commitment, dedication and effort are social responsibility into our business and to managing, crucial if we are to meet our customers expectations measuring and reporting our key social and environmental and ensure that we are the leader in safe, innovative, impacts resulted in an improved score in the Business in reliable, sustainable transport services.
We want to be the Community Corporate Responsibility Index 2006. the employer of choice in our industry, offering our staff We also participate in the FTSE4Good Index and the Dow opportunities to develop and grow to reach their full Jones Sustainability Index.
We continue to invest in the training and development of our employees across the Group.
We have Our CSR Policy, together with our Corporate Social ongoing programmes for employees working towards Responsibility Report, which gives further details of our recognised training in the form of vocational qualifications.
activities and progress during the year, can be found at In UK Bus our successful partnership with the Transport www.
com and General Workers Union to expand our workplace learning provision continues and we are sponsoring the Business in the Community Skills for Life award this year to encourage other employers to follow our lead.
In North America all of our technicians can now participate in the Automotive Service Excellence Programme designed to Moir Lockhead train and test technicians.
First Student continues to Chief Executive 16 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
