Operating and financial review: Chief Executives introduction The year was one of mixed fortunes for the Group.
Group operating profits before special items for Stronger than anticipated demand from the oil and gas continuing businesses grew slightly to 100.6 million.
and mining sectors was reflected in excellent growth in Adjusting for the impact of currency translation, operating turnover and profits in the Lifting Products and Services profits before special items improved by 5.3%.
Increased volumes and The growth of order books and turnover in the Groups efficiencies continued to feed through to margins, heavy engineering activities increased levels of working with second half improvements in Energy Technology capital during the year, contributing to the year end very encouraging for future performance.
As previously closing net debt at 329.9 million being higher than indicated, FKI Logistex reduced activity levels in the last year by 25.2 million.
A replacement for the Groups US airports sector and total turnover was down slightly revolving credit facility of 150 million, which matures on the previous year, with profits little changed.
Overall in July, has been agreed post the year end at a reduced performance improved slightly, but was impacted by the level of 120 million.
The new facility provides funding completion costs of a number of legacy projects.
As also for working capital fluctuations throughout the year and, anticipated, the Hardware groups performance reduced whilst marginally more expensive, gives improved significantly as a result of a dramatic decline in demand covenant headroom.
for window hardware for US housing and was further impacted by the time lag between zinc input cost As planned last year, the Group has transferred surplus increases and their effective recovery in selling prices.
properties to the value of 12.5 million to the UK Pension Scheme during the year.
Further transfers Encouragingly, the market positions of all of the major of 8.0 million are planned for 2007 8, with one businesses continued to improve during the period as a US property identified for transfer already sold for result of increased customer focus, investment in products $10.5 million.
The cash will be transferred to the fund and services, operating efficiencies and the successful when received.
During the year the triennial valuation integration of acquisitions.
was completed and ongoing funding arrangements, The financial results of the Group were, once again, equivalent to those of the past three years, agreed with significantly impacted by the translation of the US$.
At the year end the deficit on the Groups The average US$ exchange rate for the year was main UK defined benefit scheme reduced from $1.91 compared to $1.78 in 2005 6.
The overall effect 110.7 million last year to 72.0 million.
of currency translation reduced reported turnover from Changes to the Groups business portfolio were much continuing activities and operating profit before special reduced compared to the prior year and consisted of the items in 2006 7 by 47.5 million and 4.7 million acquisition of Harrington Generators for 6.2 million respectively, compared to the prior year.
and the disposals of the final Certex operation in Italy and Overall, in constant currency terms the Group returned the Groups chain making operations in the UK and US.
continuing business turnover growth of 105 million The Group continues to focus on active portfolio 8.2%, a combination of 129 million 19.3% increase management and a number of opportunities for in Lifting Products and Services and Energy Technology, acquisition and disposal are being evaluated.
offset by the reductions in Hardware and FKI Logistex.
04 FKI plc Operating and financial review The Board has considered the output from the review Paul Heiden Chief Executive and has concluded that the Company should move to concentrate upon the energy sector activities of Lifting Products and Services and Energy Technology.
The improved focus and financial flexibility provided by this strategy will enable a clearer understanding of the Company and provide the support for future organic and acquisitive growth.
As a consequence, the Group is moving forward progressively with plans to separate its FKI Logistex and Hardware activities.
The objective is to secure a new Encouragingly, the environment for these businesses which will support their growth aspirations whilst providing funds to restructure market positions of all the Groups financing arrangements.
During this period of realignment the Board is fully committed to proactively supporting all of the Groups activities and customers.
of the major businesses As part of the process of separating the Hardware and continued to improve Logistex businesses, replacement financing for the current debt portfolio, including the a600 million Eurobond will during the period be required at the appropriate time.
These considerations, together with the sentiment towards the US housing sector, will be the key determinants of the sequence The key metric for the Group continues to be Return and timing of the planned realignment.
Decisions on Invested Capital ROIC which reduced from 8.4% on individual transactions will be taken as and when to 7.8% with the disposal last year of Bristol Babcock, appropriate.
The target is to complete the programme currency translation and increased pension interest costs as soon as possible, always with the intent of maximising being the principal drivers.
value for the shareholder, and accordingly we envisage it may take up to eighteen to twenty-four months.
Strategy Proposals for a more appropriate Group financing At the time of the interim results the Board announced structure are well advanced and market testing of the a strategic review of the Groups activities.
This was to potential values for the Hardware businesses are ongoing.
address what has become an increasingly restrictive The Board believes a viable option for FKI Logistex financing structure and the Companys valuation, in the is a demerger, as a listed company, from FKI.
Initial Boards opinion, not reflecting the progress of the Group.
preparations for this scenario have already commenced Since that time, considerable work has been completed by whilst other options are still under consideration.
the Executive and advisers to analyse, explore and market test the options available to the Group to maximise shareholder value.
05 FKI plc Operating and financial review Paul Heiden Chief Executive
