Annual Report and Accounts 2007 02 Chairman and Group Chief Executives Report 03 2007 was a successful year for Forth Ports.
The underlying financial performance Property of the ports division at operating profit level increased by 13%.
Yet again, the As stated in our pre-close trading statement, two plots for affordable housing quality of our assets resulted in a large increase in the value of our port investment were offered for sale in 2007 which contributed cash towards our infrastructure properties.
We acquired the Nordic Group of companies Nordic on 29th June costs.
As a result, the property division recorded an underlying operating loss for 46m.
The property division met all of its principal milestones and drove of 1.3m in 2007 compared with an underlying profit of 4.2m in 2006 when forward its development plans for the Waterfront.
It also produced an increase two development sites were sold.
in the annual independent valuation of our development assets.
In all areas of our business, we are well placed to deliver further growth and value for The Market Value of the property development assets as defined amounted to our shareholders.
282m at 31st December 2007 an increase of 3% compared with 275m on a like for like basis: the Calculation of Worth as defined at the end of 2007 amounted Financial to 408m compared with 402m in 2006.
The above figures incorporate the Group revenue increased by 7% to 165m 2006 153.6m.
Group EBITDA Groups share 7.7m of the Ocean Terminal valuation reduction and reflect increased by 5% to 51.7m and underlying port operating profit grew strongly by positively on the work carried out throughout the year to manage the 13% to 38.7m 2006 34.1m.
The profit before tax amounted to 32.3m 2006 development infrastructure spend and future profile through a combination of 55.6m after taking account of a lower revaluation surplus, no gain from the greater cost certainty and value engineering together with progress in achieving sale of a joint venture and our share of a reduction in the valuation of the Ocean key milestones.
The key aspects of this were: Terminal Shopping Centre.
The underlying profit before tax reduced to 27.6m 2006 30.4m reflecting the reduction from the contribution by the property Remasterplanning the residential content at Western Harbour division where there was an underlying operating loss of 1.3m compared with Progress and control of infrastructure spend an underlying operating profit of 4.2m in 2006 see Glossary for the definition of Submission of the Outline Planning Application OPA documentation for underlying.
Profit after tax amounted to 24.9m 2006 41.1m and included Leith Docks the benefit of a reduction in the deferred tax liability of 2.7m arising from the Confirmation of funding for the tram forthcoming change in the rate of corporation tax.
Basic earnings per share amounted to 55.3p 2006 90.5p.
Underlying earnings per share amounted We were pleased to show the First Minister Alex Salmond round our waterfront to 46.1p 2006 47p.
sites at the end of February 2008.
We believe that there is much that the Scottish Government, City of Edinburgh Council CEC and Forth Ports can do together Dividend to provide a world class waterfront for Edinburgh.
The Directors propose a final dividend up 5.8% at 31.95p per share giving a total dividend for the year of 47.7p per share.
This is an increase of 5.5% for the full Renewable Energy year and is in line with the Boards policy of pursuing real levels of dividend per We have been examining ways in which we can exploit our asset base further share growth.
If approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, in creating energy generation and distribution opportunities from renewable the final dividend will be paid on 9th May 2008 to all shareholders on the register sources.
Having completed a desk top study covering energy from waste as at 11th April 2008. bio-products and onshore and offshore wind opportunities, we now intend to examine those potentially significant opportunities in more detail with an Ports experienced partner.
The ports business performed strongly, with the ports underlying EBITDA increasing to 53.0m 2006 46.8m.
Both Tilbury and Scotland contributed People to the strong financial performance through a mix of increasing volumes and We are extremely grateful to all who work for Forth Ports for their efforts and operating efficiencies.
After the disappointing performance from liquid bulks contributions over the last year.
in 2006, there was a strong turnaround at Hound Point which increased its throughput by 32%.
Prospects During 2007, we instituted a formal project list for capital expenditure projects Tilbury continues to receive requests from customers for more facilities, throughout the Group to help assess the likely capital requirements over the particularly in relation to the forthcoming London Olympics.
While it has been next few years.
The project stack for ports covers many projects which total possible to move customers around the port to provide space for additional over 50m of potential spend.
Although not all the projects will come to fruition, business up to now, this has become more challenging.
We took the opportunity, we are encouraged by their number and variety which should form the foundation therefore, to acquire 65 acres of land just outside the port which we expect to be of future investment growth.
With improved returns from existing investments, able to develop for port use in the medium term.
returns from future investments and further operating efficiencies, we believe that there are good growth prospects in the ports business.
At Grangemouth, there was a good performance from the container business which, after a slow start in the first half of the year, increased its overall volumes In property, the milestones have been set to achieve planning approvals for the marginally.
However, the new working patterns, together with our investment in Hub and Leith Docks over the course of the next few years whilst, at the same Property modern craneage and straddle carriers, resulted in a strong financial performance.
time, laying down the infrastructure for the further development of Western Harbour and Granton.
The timescale is long but the rewards for shareholders The Group owns 184 hectares of land on Edinburghs waterfront, The Nordic acquisition was earnings positive in its first six months.
The Tilbury are significant and continued progress should result in growth in value.
just ten minutes from the city centre.
This represents a unique Materials Recycling Facility MRF was commissioned in October and met its opportunity for the city to turn its face to the sea.
Trading for the first two months is well ahead of last year.
The Board looks of releasing waterfront sites to create value is a dynamic process forward with confidence to an improved operating performance in 2008. within the Group.
We also own over 1,900 hectares of seabed The value of our port investment properties increased to 178.8m from 161.8m last adjacent our landholding at Leith and Granton.
year which reflects a modest increase in Scotland and a large increase at Tilbury.
Christopher Collins Charles Hammond Chairman Group Chief Executive Our ports business has a secure, growing revenue base with a breadth of different commodities which offer a variety of investment opportunities.
17th March 2008 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 04 05 Growth Sustainability Community Integration at work There are many examples of overlapping and integrated projects within the Group: the long term development of Leith Docks will involve the relocation of our port customer base elsewhere within our asset base.
This has already been accomplished with customers such as Oceaneering Rosyth and ST Services Grangemouth.
Our work on developing energy potential will link and integrate our ports, marine, property and Nordic businesses.
