6 WE ARE EXTREMELY PLEASED WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS IN 2007 AND ARE CONFIDENT ABOUT THE FURTHER DEVELOPMENT OF THE GROUP THIS YEAR.
Nick Buckles Chief Executive CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 2007 Performance In 2006, we raised the group targets in a number of areas following a strong business performance in that year and to demonstrate our confidence about the future.
We set a target for organic growth of 7%, a PBITA margin target of 7% within two years and a cash generation target of 85% of PBITA.
In 2007, we have demonstrated our ability to deliver on our promises, with organic growth of 9.1% more than 2% ahead of target, PBITA margins at 7% 18 months ahead of schedule and cash generation ahead of target at 89%.
2007 Performance Highlights When we presented our full year results for 2007, we were pleased to report that: We had very strong organic turnover growth of 9.1% 2006: 7.1% Group turnover was up 14.5% to 4,490.4 million 2006: 3,923.2m PBITA was up 16.8% to 312.1 million 2006: 267.1 m The group PBITA margin had improved to 7.0% 2006: 6.8% We had achieved cash flow generation of 276.4 million, representing 89% of PBITA 2006: 86% Operating Adjusted earnings per share had increased by 10.7% to 13.4p 2006: 12.1p We would recommend a final dividend of 2.85 pence per share DKK 0.279, up 13.1% on the prior year 2006: 2.52p DKK 0.277, giving a recommended total dividend of 4.96 pence per share & Financial DKK 0.511 2006: 4.21p DKK 0.463 at constant 2007 exchange rates Review G4S plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 7 OVERALL, THE OUTLOOK FOR THE BUSINESS IS GOOD AND WE ARE NOT EXPECTING THE RECENT ECONOMIC UNCERTAINTIES TO IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO DELIVER STRONG RESULTS IN THE FUTURE.
In developed markets we have achieved a solid result with organic growth of around 7% and margins in line WE ACHIEVED ORGANIC with the previous year.
The increased organic growth of 17% and improved margins in new markets have GROWTH OF 9.1% driven an overall margin improvement of 0.2% across the group.
We have introduced the investment community to the next phase of our strategy which we believe will drive PBITA MARGINS REACHED 7% accelerated growth and development for the group and we have already announced a number of acquisitions 18 months ahead which will help us steer the strategy forward.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone across the organisation for contributing to this strong CASH FLOW GENERATION performance.
It is their commitment and enthusiasm which drives the success of the business and I am proud WAS 89% OF PBITA to be a part of that winning team.
Strategic Development WE HAVE INTRODUCED 2007 Review In 2007, we set about reviewing the group strategy with a focus on driving accelerated growth A NEW STRATEGY and development for the future.
to drive accelerated growth Our review confirmed a growing trend of pricing pressure in core basic services and a demand from customers and development.
for G4S to take a broader role in managing their risks.
Strategic Goals Deliver fully outsourced solutions: MANAGE Output based contracts Ability to share in gains Provide expertise: ANALYSIS Market segmentation specialisation AND Risk assessment & consultancy DESIGN Solutions & bid design capability Enhancement of core services with supervision & IT: OPERATE Delivery of core services Deliver across all services according to market need, in a phased and evolutionary implementation The basic elements of the strategy which resulted from this review include a need to add value to the core services that we already provide by taking a greater role not just in specialist security areas, but in total outsourcing of the management of environments where security and safety is key.
By doing this G4S becomes a partner with its customers and takes greater responsibility for managing entire aspects of their business which are not core to them, and where G4S can add value through its security and segment expertise.
For example: High security facility outsourcing in key sectors Cash cycle management ATM network management and servicing Risk management and consultancy Prison design and management Offender management programmes Business of this type is usually based on long term contracts with recurring revenues, which require commitment from both sides to deliver on promises set out at the negotiation stage.
Increasing Customer Partnership 8 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Strategy Implementation Principles Security remains at the core of our offer it is an area in which we have an extensive amount of expertise across the group and is fundamental to our service proposition.
However, in order to drive growth forward at an accelerated level, we will build on the solid foundation that we have created in this area.
Strategy Implementation Principles Gain a larger share of customer spend and focus: Build relationships via increased and more senior contact points Demonstrate awareness of customer needs Develop customer driven propositions: Create tailored solutions for specific industry sectors Add Intelligence: Add risk assessment capability Acquire consulting, audit certification and design capabilities Enable identification of value added solutions to customer issues Develop solid foundation: Develop appropriate organisational structure Further develop market segment understanding We will add intelligence to our businesses in key areas such as risk assessment and consulting and we will add bid capability and project management skills to our core competencies.
We will focus on creating customer propositions tailored for specific industry sectors which demonstrate G4S expertise in these areas.
At the same time, we will build relationships at a senior level within our customer organisations and ultimately gain a larger share of customer commitment and spend on secure outsourcing solutions.
Current Capability A number of our businesses already provide complete outsourced security solutions to our customers where they take total responsibility for managing risk and increasing efficiency it is important to spread this experience more widely across the group.
We estimate that this type of contract represents around 30% of group revenues and we will seek to extend this over time.
In cases where we do not have the appropriate expertise within the group, we will seek to obtain it either by acquiring businesses or by attracting key experts to the group.
Whilst we will seek to develop all businesses in line with the strategy, we will focus initially on a few key markets US, UK, Benelux, South Africa and India.
Operating & Financial Review continued Increasing Customer Partnership G4S plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 9 IN DEVELOPED MARKETS WE HAVE ACHIEVED A SOLID RESULT WITH ORGANIC GROWTH OF 7.3% AND MARGINS IN LINE WITH THE PREVIOUS YEAR AT 7.1% DEMONSTRATING THAT EVEN IN TOUGHER ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTS, THE UNDERLYING PERFORMANCE ACROSS OUR DEVELOPED MARKETS BUSINESSES IS ROBUST AND RELIABLE.
Summary & Outlook We are extremely pleased with the performance of the business in 2007 and feel confident about the further development of the group this year.
In developed markets we have achieved a solid result with organic growth of 7.3% and margins in line with the previous year at 7.1% demonstrating that even in tougher economic environments, the underlying performance across our developed markets businesses is robust and reliable.
The increased organic growth of 17% and improved margins in new markets have driven an overall margin improvement of 0.2% across the group.
New markets continue to grow at significant rates and with our unique position and experience of operating in these markets we are well-placed to continue to drive forward the INCREASED ORGANIC performance of our businesses in these countries.
GROWTH OF 17% and improved margins in new We have introduced the investment community to the next phase of our strategy which we believe will drive markets have driven an overall accelerated growth and development for the group.
The strategy focuses on taking greater responsibility for margin improvement of 0.2% managing risk on behalf of our customers extending from our core capabilities to develop total risk across the group.
management and secure outsourcing solutions across our service range and geographies.
In order to achieve this, we need to invest in building our own capabilities and expertise by continuing to share OUR BUSINESS MODEL IS ROBUST AND DEFENDABLE best practice, by developing our senior management population and by acquiring businesses and individuals who and our future strategy will bring expertise to the organisation.
We have already announced a number of acquisitions which help us drive build upon our key strengths the strategy forward, the most significant being Global Solutions Ltd GSL.
to deliver enhanced Overall, the outlook for the business is good and we are not expecting the recent economic uncertainties to performance.
impact our ability to continue to deliver strong results in the future.
Our business model is robust and defendable and our future strategy will build upon our key strengths to deliver enhanced performance.
