Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 5 Chief Executives Statement Powder Metallurgy suffered from higher input costs and Committed to growth significantly lower North American demand for GKN has made excellent progress in 2007. components for large V8 engines.
Two planned plant Strong contributions from Driveline and Aerospace helped closures completed in the second half created operational the Group deliver another year of increased sales and a disruption which also impacted profitability.
So, although significant improvement in profits and earnings per share.
sales revenues showed growth, profits were slightly down.
With restructuring now complete, strong order books and Our strategic restructuring programme has been a range of new product launches under way, we expect concluded, repositioning our Automotive and Powder Powder Metallurgy to resume progress in 2008.
Metallurgy businesses to take advantage of high growth markets and enabling them to compete from a lower Off-highway markets have been favourable with solid cost base.
demand for agricultural machinery in both Europe and North America.
Demand for heavy construction and Exceptional levels of new business have been secured mining equipment more than offset a weakening in the across the Group, giving us continuing confidence in our North American light construction segment.
The Rockford ability to increase market shares and grow revenues.
Powertrain business made an excellent first full year contribution and the Liuzhou wheels acquisition in China, GKN technology has contributed to a number of customer which completed in November 2006, has integrated well.
product breakthroughs in the automotive, off-highway and aerospace sectors.
They will provide value to GKN Aerospace has again performed strongly and, with some shareholders for many years to come.
contribution from acquisitions, produced double digit sales and profits growth.
Order books were also And GKN people all over the globe have gone that extra www.
com strengthened in buoyant commercial markets, with Boeing mile to support a major social responsibility programme and Airbus having a record sales year, and the US defence GKN Mission Everest.
markets also providing much new opportunity.
Additional Dedicated to perform business was gained on existing programmes and Our Driveline businesses made a strong recovery from a significant work packages won on a number of new difficult 2006 second half.
The most notable new programme wins included the aft fuselage structure for the new Sikorsky Global automotive production grew by 5.3% in 2007 and CH-53K military helicopter and blended winglets for our restructured and revitalised Driveshaft business was retrofit to Boeing 767 and 737 airliners to aid improved able to take full advantage of its excellent market fuel efficiency.
The Teleflex acquisition which completed in positioning.
Sales and profits improved markedly and the June strengthened GKNs position in the engine division won over 80% of global driveshaft business component sector and secured access to hot section sourced externally, with the level in the emerging markets components for the first time.
of Asia Pacific and South America even higher.
In December we were pleased to be selected by Airbus as Demand for our torque products was also strong, the preferred partner for the acquisition of the wing particularly in the growing Asian sports utility vehicle component and sub-assembly facility on their Filton site, market and a number of important high volume including the potential award of major design and programmes were won in Asia, Europe and North America.
manufacturing packages for the Airbus A350 XWB wing.
There is much work to be done over the coming months to turn the selection into definitive contractual agreements we are, however, extremely excited by the opportunity offered by this major strategic partnership with Airbus.
The Group delivered another year of increased sales and a significant improvement in profits and earnings per share.
Sir Kevin Smith Chief Executive Chairmans Statement Chief Executives Statement 6 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives Statement continued A passion to innovate United by common goals Our continued success can only be assured through the Within GKN we expect much from our people.
Our leaders sustained development of innovative technologies are tasked with growing the business on a global basis, and products.
focusing on delivering value to our customers and managing teams often spread across continents.
They This year sees the introduction into the marketplace of work in a business environment which is highly GKNs highly acclaimed countertrack constant velocity competitive and typified by complex supply chains and joints which are fitted to a number of new vehicles being constantly developing technologies.
These joints have set new standards for size, weight and efficiency, supporting At plant level, supervisors and operators are at the front vehicle manufacturers drive for lower emissions.
line of our implementation of a Lean Enterprise culture where continuous improvement and innovation is GKNs technologies for the 21st century are being applied becoming routine.
The new Tata Nano, launched in India this year, is the worlds lowest cost car with a price GKN people, however, know that they can count on high tag equivalent to $2,500.
Our new driveshaft for low cost levels of support both in helping the Group achieve its vehicles is a key component within the new car.
strategic objectives and in developing their own abilities Meanwhile, BMW are launching the X6, a new premium and aspirations.
vehicle which utilises GKNs electronic torque vectoring A key feature which has emerged during recent years is technology the most advanced traction control system what we call The GKN Way.
At its heart is a common in the world.
language and a common set of values, metrics, In Powder Metallurgy our technology enabled the launch management processes and a core principle that of a world first high performance manual transmission development opportunities will be available for all GKN gear application.
In 2007, as part of an intensive programme of employee development, we completed a training In OffHighway we have developed the Hydromech gearbox programme for 1,000 leaders in the principles and which improves the efficiency of combine harvesters.
The practices of Lean Enterprise as part of our ongoing new gearbox has been introduced on a range of European training in continuous improvement techniques.
GKN people are no longer separated by geographic, And in Aerospace we have validated, through our work on business or market boundaries increasingly they have the Airbus A400M, the design and manufacture of come to feel and to act as one team.
composites for large aircraft primary wing structures.
This work will impact directly on the next generation of Pledged to help those in need airliners.
Our work on composites will also help improve This has been the year of GKN Mission Everest when we the fuel efficiency of new jet engines.
As part of an EU supported adventurer Bear Grylls in his successful quest programme we have also developed production processes to fly a powered paraglider higher than Mount Everest.
for composite products which do not require high GKN people have a tradition of supporting their temperature curing ovens.
communities but we used GKN Mission Everest to inspire The development of technologies in tune with the times is them to do even more.
In return, we pledged to donate at the heart of how we will create a sustainable growth funds to childrens charities in Africa.
The development of innovative technologies is at the heart of how we will create a sustainable growth path for GKN.
Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 7 The Group expects to see further solid improvement in its Automotive and Powder Metallurgy businesses and continued strong growth in OffHighway and Aerospace.
During 2007 our people contributed $1.7 million of extra Against this background, the Group expects to see further support to their local communities in the Americas, solid improvement in its Automotive and Powder Europe and Asia Pacific.
The Group gave $500,000 to Metallurgy businesses and continued strong growth in African charities in 2007 and in 2008 we will donate a OffHighway and Aerospace.
Our strategic restructuring is complete, leaving Driveline Leading a team which has taken such a compassionate and Powder Metallurgy with excellent global positioning challenge to its heart has been deeply moving.
Thousands and a stable operating footprint from which to deliver of GKN people across the world have proven themselves their strong order backlogs.
to be truly extraordinary and I am proud of them all.
OffHighway order books are at record levels and its end Outlook markets remain robust.
The outlook for our major markets remains positive Aerospace order books continue to be very strong and the despite continuing uncertainty around the global full year impact of the Teleflex acquisition will support economy.
Automotive production in the emerging markets of Asia, The Filton acquisition, which will significantly Eastern Europe and Latin America is projected to strengthen our Aerospace business, should complete experience continuing strong growth.
North American and around mid year.
Western European markets are set to soften leaving overall growth in global production at around 3%.
Overall we expect 2008 to be another year of progress www.
OffHighway and Aerospace markets are forecast to remain strong.
Raw material costs are expected to remain both volatile and high, with scrap steel costs, which have risen sharply in recent weeks, presenting a potential headwind for the year.
Conversely, if sterling were to remain at current levels Sir Kevin Smith against major international currencies there would be a Chief Executive significant translational benefit to Group results.
GKN Mission Everest 2007 saw the launch of GKN Mission Everest a powerful symbol of the Groups ambition, innovation and teamwork.
The daring feat to fly a paraglider higher than Mount Everest was successfully completed on 14 May and acted as the focal point of a global challenge for GKN employees to increase their charitable activities.
The response has been extraordinary.
Across the world and in all manner of ways GKN employees have taken up the challenge to do even more for their local communities and to bring new hope to some of Africas most deprived children.... find out more page 46 Chief Executives Statement
