Review of 2007 Chairman and CEO summary It is natural that our stakeholders want to know how we are facing Seeing results from our investment in R&D the challenges of the fast-changing healthcare environment, and Last year, GSK received a record 10 product approvals and led 10 how we plan to convert our strategic direction into pro table results, product applications.
New products launched during 2007 were which should return value to our shareholders.
Tykerb, for breast cancer, Veramyst Avamys, for allergic rhinitis, Altabax Altargo for the treatment of skin infections and Cervarix our Our 2007 Annual Report aims to answer these questions and vaccine for the prevention of cervical cancer.
demonstrate that our strategic focus on research and development, which is delivering improved pipeline productivity, will enhance We currently have 13 new product opportunities filed with returns to shareholders over the long-term.
The success of our regulators and commenced nine new phase III clinical development Consumer Healthcare business and the strong performance of many programmes in 2007.
There are at present 34 key assets in the phase key pharmaceutical and vaccine products in our current portfolio III or registration stages.
are also providing strong contributions to growth and helped us to Leading the way deliver 2007 business performance earnings per share EPS growth Although the future remains challenging, GSK is determined to of 10% at constant exchange rates CER : results that were at the remain an industry leader across many fronts: not only through high end of our guidance.
our pipeline progress but also through ef ciency initiatives and by We also continue to balance the needs of our shareholders with our ful lling our responsibilities to communities worldwide.
commitment to improve healthcare in communities across the world In October we announced a signi cant new 1.5 billion Operational we feel this is not just the right thing to do: but the only thing to do.
Excellence programme to improve operational efficiency and Financial performance and outlook productivity.
We expect this to deliver annual pre-tax savings of 700 Total sales were 22.7 billion, up 2%, and business performance EPS million by 2010. was 99.1p, up 10% from 2006.
The Board declared a dividend for During 2007, our global community investment contributions the year of 53p, up from 48p in 2006. continued to deliver a positive in uence on the lives of people Pharmaceutical turnover was level at 19.2 billion, impacted by worldwide and we are proud to play our part to the full.
generic competition in the USA and a decrease of 22% in Avandia We are grateful to our dedicated people for their efforts and passion sales globally.
Among other key products, sales of Seretide Advair for which contributed so much to our success.
We also extend the company s asthma and COPD rose by 10% to 3.5 billion while those for Lamictal, thanks to you, our shareholders, for your continuing support.
for epilepsy and bipolar disorder, increased by 18% to 1.1 billion.
The Vaccines business grew by 20% to 2 billion.
Consumer Healthcare There have been changes in the management team in the past generated strong sales growth, up 14% to almost 3.5 billion.
12 months including the departure of David Stout, President of Pharmaceutical Operations, and Rupert Bondy, Senior Vice President 2007 also saw the launch of the largest share buy-back in the industry: and General Counsel who will be leaving GSK at the end of March share repurchases of 2.5 billion were made in 2007 under this 2008.
We thank them both for their contribution to GSK over many programme and a further 6 billion are expected in 2008.
We also welcomed Professor Sir Roy Anderson to the Board repurchase 12 billion of shares under this programme by mid-2009.
as a Non-Executive Director and Andrew Witty and Chris Viehbacher In May 2007, an article in the New England Journal of Medicine as Executive Directors.
suggested that there may be cardiovascular risk associated with Overall, we are con dent in GSKs strength as an organisation and Avandia, our second largest product.
This was followed by intense that we have the expertise to deal with the changing environment media coverage and despite our efforts to explain the entirety of we face.
the data, which did not con rm this risk, sales of Avandia dropped signi cantly in the second half of 2007.
Thank you again for your support.
The decline in Avandia sales, together with increased generic competition in the USA, will adversely impact our earnings in 2008 and we expect a mid-single digit percentage decline in business performance EPS, at CER.
Looking ahead we remain con dent in GSKs future.
Our fastgrowing vaccines business, the resurgence of our Consumer Healthcare division and the strong performance of key pharmaceutical products are all providing contributions to growth.
The momentum of our late-stage pipeline continues to enhance our business and is producing a signi cant Sir Christopher Gent JP Garnier renewal of our product line.
Chairman Chief Executive Of cer Message from Sir Christopher Gent, Chairman Thank you, JP, on behalf of the Board and the stakeholders of GSK.
The AGM sees the retirement of our Chief Executive Of cer JP Garnier, who has served GSK with great style and distinction since Andrew Witty becomes our new Chief Executive Of cer at the the merger in December 2000.
JP brought wit, wisdom and hugely AGM.
Having worked for us since 1985, Andrew is experienced, impressive business acumen to his role.
He was directly responsible enthusiastic and well-respected both inside GSK and beyond.
I have for many of the innovations of the last seven years, including the no doubt that he will ensure that GSK ful ls its rich potential, and I introduction of our Centres of Excellence in Drug Discovery, which look forward to working alongside him.
have transformed the way we approach R&D, and driving a renewed focus and energy behind our vaccines business.
