5 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW Once again, Greene Kings results for the financial year 2006 7 will continue to evaluate appropriate acquisition opportunities show strong growth right across our businesses.
Revenue was up and attractive individual sites.
Actively managing our property 12%, operating profit up 14% and profit before tax up 17%.
As portfolio is central to our business.
As well as expanding the throughout this document, the profit figures are shown before estate, we churn regularly to uphold and improve the average exceptional items.
This result has delivered adjusted earnings per standard.
Having both managed and tenanted leased divisions share up 16% to 64.8p, and has allowed the board to recommend means we can also transfer sites both ways between these a full-year dividend up 14% to 22.9p.
business models, to optimise their individual potential.
We have thus continued our run of uninterrupted earnings We place great value on recruiting the best pub managers and growth, which has spanned over four decades.
area managers, and on developing long-term partnerships with tenants and lessees.
It was a particular pleasure this year that in We aim to achieve sustainable, consistent growth in organic sales, the Association of Licensed Multiple Retailers area management and in the value of our assets, augmented by appropriate awards, Greene King managers were the winners in both the acquisitions at the right price.
We focus on the efficiency of our managed and tenanted leased classes.
The team, from the board operations, and our success in this area allows us both to reinvest down, features a blend of talents and diverse career backgrounds, in the business and to continue to grow margins.
which combine to make a formidable force in the market.
We strive continually to evolve our offer to meet customers everThe Greene King brand is a powerful asset, both with consumers growing demands.
Our focus is always on our customers, and our and in the trade representing all that is good not only in real ale, approach is built on developing and leveraging our key assets to but also in the great British pub.
This year, we demonstrated our meet their expectations: a high-quality estate, first-rate people, commitment to it by taking our brand onto prime time television, and strong brands and trading formats.
with our Sign of a Great Pub sponsorship of ITV1s Ant & Decs Saturday Night Takeaway.
We have long believed that there is a With our largely freehold estate, we focus primarily on suburban vital role both for branded outlets, such as our Hungry Horse family and community sites rather than the more volatile high street.
We value pubs: and a diverse set of individual locals.
At the end of the GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW financial year we formalised this distinction, and better positioned ongoing programme of estate re-balancing.
5 were transferred to both strands for further growth, by creating two new divisions from Belhaven and 2 were acquired.
The closing balance was therefore our managed estate: Destination Pubs and Local Pubs.
788 sites, segmented as follows: Number of Pubs April 2006 April 2007 We are heavy investors in advertising and other brand marketing.
Hungry Horse 126 107 This, alongside our rigorous quality standards, enables us to ensure Real Pubs 341 371 that our ale brands continue to trade at a premium to the market.
Town Locals 152 140 Inns 142 170 Total 761 788 Pub Company In March we won The Publicans Pub Company of the Year award.
52 weeks 05 06 06 07 Change This is the third time our managed division has won the accolade.
Average number It is a great testament to the quality of our business, and the of pubs trading 784 781 -- efforts of all our employees.
Revenue 516.5m 546.0m 6% EBITDA 128.2m 138.0m 8% Operating profit 102.1m 110.7m 8% The number of managed pubs in Greene King has risen by over Operating profit margin 19.8% 20.3% 0.5 %pts 50% since 2000.
At the end of the financial year, we re-shaped Revenue per pub 658.8k 699.1k 6% our managed houses business, creating two new divisions.
This Operating profit per pub 130.2k 141.7k 9% move creates headroom for potential further growth, while During 2006 7, we had an average of 781 managed pubs trading retaining a flat management structure and keeping the whole in England and Wales in our Pub Company division.
A combination of strong organic growth, targeted investment, the Hardys & Hansons acquisition, estate churn and careful cost control has delivered strong profit growth.
Operating profit rose 8% to 110.7m on revenue up 6% at 546.0m.
Total like-for-like sales were 3.4% ahead, continuing our record over a number of years of steady, sustainable sales growth.
We do not chase sales growth for its own sake, but seek to build customer loyalty and margin.
The operating profit margin was 20.3%, an improvement of 0.5 percentage points on 2005 6, continuing our long run of margin growth, despite major cost pressures during the year, especially in energy and Sky TV.
organisation as close as possible to the customer.
It has been achieved without any increase in cost.
The new divisions are: In the run-up to the smoking ban, we have pursued further development programmes for our mealtime, late-evening food, soft Destination Pubs 278 sites : focused on branded or stronglydrinks and wine ranges, and added branded coffee offers in many formatted pubs, most of which are food-intensive.
This division outlets, and improved the quality of our outside trading areas.
is led by Jonathan Webster, formerly chief executive of Hardys & Hansons.
Within Pub Company, we invested 20.8m in some 70 major property improvements.
Additionally, 12.6m went on Local Pubs 510 sites : focused on community, town-local and maintenance capex, with a further 8.5m spent on repairs from town-traditional pubs, where more decision-making on the the revenue account.
These figures exclude the investments we feel and activities of the outlet will be devolved to local level, have made in facilities relating specifically to the smoking ban.
to reflect their individual markets.
To lead this division, Jonathan Lawson joins us from Sainsburys Local, where he was Pub Company began the financial year with 761 pubs.
83 pubs instrumental in delivering top-line growth through were added from the Hardys & Hansons estate, 32 pubs were entrepreneurialism among local store managers.
divested and 21 transferred to Pub Partners, as part of our GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 8 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW Pub Partners area managers scored the highest in terms of receiving an excellent rating, and we were seen as making the most effort to 52 weeks 05 06 06 07 Change become a better partner by licensees.
Average number of pubs trading 1,324 1,431 8% To capture more sales in wines, spirits and minerals we have Revenue 149.6m 164.0m 10% EBITDA 70.0m 80.6m 15% introduced a new tenancy agreement which gives even more Operating profit 64.9m 74.7m 15% attractive prices on these products.
We are making more sites Operating profit margin 43.4% 45.5% 2.2 %pts available for lease, to attract a greater number of entrepreneurial EBITDA per pub 52.9k 56.3k 7% licensees.
To retain control over the quality of the asset and the Operating profit per pub 49.0k 52.2k 6% trading style adopted by the licensee, we have launched a new Pub Partners is our tenanted and leased pubs division in England lease agreement, assignable only after four years.
Underlying sales growth, margin management and churning of the estate have combined to deliver a 6% We have provided extensive support to tenants to help them improvement in operating profits per pub.
This, together with the prepare for the smoking ban, with an assisted purchase scheme effect of an additional 107 pubs trading on average in the division, for smoking shelters, and provision of assistance with marketing has delivered operating profit growth of 15% year on year.
The operating profit of 74.7m was on revenue up 10% to 164.0m.
Brewing Company The operating profit margin was 45.5%, up 2.2 percentage points on 52 weeks 05 06 06 07 Change the previous year.
Revenue 87.7m 91.1m 4% Operating profit 20.6m 23.0m 12% Operating profit margin 23.5% 25.2% 1.8 %pts Brewing Company is our brand management, brewing and distribution business in England and Wales.
Following a very strong second half performance, revenue was up 4% on the previous year, to 91.1m, while operating profit was up 12% to 23.0m.
The operating profit margin was therefore 25.2%, an improvement of 1.8 percentage points from 2005 6.
Our brand strategy leads on Greene King IPA in the on-trade and Old Speckled Hen in the off-trade each supported by the other: by our other main brands Abbot Ale and Ruddles: and by an A total of 10.8m was invested across the Pub Partners estate, extensive portfolio of specialist and seasonal ales.
Both Greene including 55 major investments started in the year.
An additional King IPA and Old Speckled Hen further grew their market shares, 5.7m went on maintenance capex, and 4.6m on repairs from and total own-brewed volume was up 2.1% against a beer market the revenue account.
These figures exclude additional monies down by -1.7% and an ale market down by -7%.
Greene King IPA, Britains No.
1 cask ale, became the Official Beer At the start of the financial year, 1,353 pubs were trading.
The of England Rugby in October.
We are delighted to have Greene Hardys & Hansons acquisition brought 185 more sites, and 21 King IPA associated with rugby in the year of the rugby World pubs transferred in from Pub Company.
The launch of Greene King IPA Chilled provides access to the which we felt were most exposed to the smoking ban, well ahead growing category of extra cold beer.
The closing balance was therefore 1,417 pubs.
Old Speckled Hen, the best-selling premium ale in supermarkets, An average of 1,431 sites traded over the year, 94% of them was re-launched in a new livery and bottle.
In the on-trade, the bearing Greene King branding.
Almost 80% are tenanted, with the gravity was lowered to 4.5% ABV, to build distribution and rate of balance on a lease agreement.
In both business models we are sale.
The results have been encouraging, with the brand growing aiming to build partnerships, and lead the industry in terms of 7% last year in the on-trade.
support and ways of working.
This was acknowledged in the Morning Advertiser annual survey September 2006, where our Source: BBPA Monthly MAT April 2007 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW Belhaven and 185 tenanted.
97% of the jobs at Hardys & Hansons were retained.
Most of the pubs are in the East Midlands, which is adjacent 52 weeks 05 06 06 07 Change to our heartland: and the acquisition has extended our core territory Revenue 115.1m 116.4m 1% in a very efficient way from a sales and distribution perspective.
I Operating profit 22.4m 23.3m 4% described it at the time as a hand-in-glove fit and so indeed it has Operating profit margin 19.5% 20.0% 0.6 %pts proved.
At the time of the deal, we estimated 5m annual synergies, 2005 6 numbers on pro-forma basis 3m of them in the first full year.
Capture of these synergies is on track.
Additionally, we are now gaining operational know-how about Belhavens results were comfortably ahead of our expectations in the running of larger-format food pubs.
I am delighted that Jonathan 2005 when Greene King acquired the Scottish business, and we Webster accepted my invitation to stay with Greene King and lead are particularly encouraged by Belhavens strong finish to the our new Destination Pubs division.
Belhavens revenue, trading profit and trading profit margin all Disposal of 155 pubs grew year on year, a significant achievement in the first year of On 1 December, we completed the sale of 155 pubs to Admiral the Scottish smoking ban.
These pubs generated historic pre-overhead EBITDA of 5.3m.
Along with the deal, we secured Each part of Belhaven contributed to the success.
Belhavens an attractive beer supply agreement with Admiral for their entire brewing business significantly outperformed competitors with estate in England.
We will continue to dispose of, as well as to on-trade beer volumes up 2.2% on the preceding year in a market acquire, sites in a timely manner and at the right price, in order to which was down by 7.2%.
Belhaven brand sales volumes were up optimise the quality of our estate.
2.4% with Belhaven Best, Scotlands on-trade market leading draught ale, improving volume by 5.6%.
Capital efficiency We are committed to maximising value to shareholders through a combination of acquisitions, organic investment and return of surplus funds.
Key to this is finding the appropriate balance between retaining financial flexibility on the one hand, and driving balance sheet efficiency on the other.
Due to the strong cash generation of our business, and the changes we have made to our debt structure, our fixed charge cover currently stands at 2.8x, which we believe is now sub-optimal.
We therefore intend to move towards fixed charge cover of 2.3x over the next twelve to eighteen months.
This ratio we will continue to keep under close review.
Belhavens managed pubs grew both sales and margin.
A combination of new openings and over 25% growth in food sales Of the funds thus generated, we intend to return at least 100m to compensated for a slight decline in beer sales and machine income.
shareholders in financial year 2007 8, in the form of share buyThe tenanted leased business also performed well, and benefited backs, additional to the 28m of buy-backs already executed this further from estate churn and improved wholesale beer margins.
The balance will be available to fund a combination of further acquisitions, on which we have a strong track record of value- 26 pubs were added during the financial year mainly through creative deals: organic investment: and the return of additional single site acquisitions and there were 17 disposals of smaller, funds to shareholders in the form of further share buy-backs.
lower-quality units, leaving the estate at the close of the year at 299 houses 200 tenanted leased and 99 managed.
Unlocking property value Greene King has in place a securitisation arrangement covering Hardys & Hansons 1,632, or 65%, of our pubs, representing EBITDA of 165.4m.
On 5 September we completed the acquisition of Hardys & There remain, therefore, 872 or 35% of our pubs outside the Hansons plc.
The acquisition brought us 268 sites: 83 managed securitisation arrangement.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW The board has reviewed in detail a wide range of options to 3%.
Like-for-like sales at Pub Partners were up 1%, while Brewing maximise the value release from these unsecuritised assets, Company's own-brewed volume sales were up 6%.
Belhaven Best including a separate Real Estate Investment Trust REIT, an sales were up 6%.
extension of the existing securitisation, and the creation of an OpCo PropCo structure with a joint-venture partner.
We are well prepared for the smoking ban, which has just come into force in England.
The actions we have taken, combined with The board believes that an OpCo PropCo structure with a jointthe quality and positioning of our estate, will enable us to meet venture partner for all or a proportion of the unsecuritised part of the challenge and to grasp the opportunity, as we widen our the estate may deliver the best balance between realising value customer base.
and retaining some operational control.
With the right jointventure partner, and on the right terms, we believe that we could We are confident that we will continue to deliver a strong benefit from additional skills and disciplines which will further performance throughout the course of the year.
help us to unlock property value from our estate.
Assuming the right conditions, we would anticipate a transaction during the The intrinsic quality of our assets, combined with the talents of course of this financial year.
Throughout this process, we remain our team, and the benefit of recent acquisitions, provide exciting committed to achieving and maintaining balance sheet efficiency.
opportunities to deliver further underlying growth in the future.
Furthermore, our plans to release capital from our balance sheet and to unlock value from our property estate will generate The smoking ban in England substantial additional value for our shareholders.
The smoking ban in enclosed public spaces in England has now come into effect.
Although it is too early to measure actual results, we believe we are very well placed both to meet the challenges and to capitalise on the opportunities presented by the ban, for the following reasons: We have high-quality sites, over 95% of which have usable exterior areas Our preparations for the ban have stretched over a number of years, gradually introducing non-smoking areas and building smoking solutions into developments We have also over a number of years been broadening both our customer base among women and families, and our sales mix to elevate the importance of food Our exposure to all major trade channels in Scotland means we have been able to learn in advance and adapt plans from Belhavens experiences Specific actions preparatory to the ban, including the installation of smoking shelters and marketing and communications programmes, have been delivered on schedule.
In total we will have spent 10m on smoking ban projects Current trading and outlook Trading in the first eight weeks of the current financial year has been in line with our expectations.
Total like-for-like sales in our ROONEY ANAND managed houses in England and Wales were up 1%: underlying CHIEF EXECUTIVE 2 July 2007 total like-for-like sales, excluding the World Cup effect, were up by
