06 07 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Ian McLeod During the financial year, Halfords has continued to deliver further During the financial year, Halfords has built on its strong growth, demonstrating strong resilience to both a challenging performance in previous years by delivering a year-on-year sales retail environment and changing market dynamics through a increase of 9.1% which includes growth across each of our key combination of a differentiated offer, our unique service categories.
As well as maintaining sales momentum through a proposition and a proactive trading approach.
similar sales growth profile in each half year, a proactive management of the product mix and supplier base has also The essence of Halfords successful business model lies in our enabled us to grow cash margin and significantly arrest the level range differentiation, our service and strong defensive of percentage margin dilution experienced in the previous characteristics.
We are both market leader and store of first choice financial year.
in each of our key markets.
We have the UKs largest range of car parts, a third of the UK cycle market and are now clearly We continue to successfully focus on each of the four key established as the UKs leading provider of In-Car Technology elements of our business strategy: solutions.
Our product offer is delivered from a portfolio of 426 stores, the significant majority of which are located in popular Investing in the store portfolio retail parks throughout the country.
Leveraging the Halfords brand Improving the supply chain Our breadth of range and our scale of stores across the UK and Marketing the Halfords service proposition also within the Republic of Ireland, are underpinned by the competitive advantage provided by the informed service and INVESTING IN THE STORE PORTFOLIO product fitting capability of our store-based colleagues.
Halfords In recent years our focus has been on reinvesting in the existing therefore possesses a combination of characteristics which store estate, to ensure that our store environment remains continue to provide a strong defence against any material form of contemporary and our customers are presented with our latest scale competition.
This programme, involving varying degrees of reinvigoration, is now essentially complete.
A combination of investment in our existing stores, often increasing capacity through the addition of mezzanine floors, and the opening of new stores has added 32% of space to our portfolio since 2001.
We believe our market leading position can be further enhanced by the development of at least 130 further stores across the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Our portfolio investment emphasis will now move towards a stronger store opening programme.
The Halfords Group now has 376 Superstores, with well over half in a mezzanine format and over 100 stores in a supermezzanine format, which remains our format of choice.
As at 30 March 2007, Halfords Group had a total of 426 stores trading, including two stand-alone Bikehuts.
BOARDMAN BIKES The new Boardman range of bikes designed by Olympic and triple world champion Chris Boardman MBE pictured above, places Halfords at the forefront of specialist bike development offering superior quality products at the most competitive prices.
The range of bikes and accessories available exclusively at Halfords and standalone Bikehut stores includes road, mountain and commuter bikes.
CAMPING RANGE On the back of our success in 2006, we have further developed our range for 2007 with the introduction of our Urban Escape premium camping range.
Product development continues to drive sales growth in this attractive market, while a newly re-branded sub shop identity has provided range clarity.
CARRERA Fifty new models of the Carrera range have been introduced this year.
Carrera is Britains best selling premium cycle brand and continues to grow supported by positive reviews from the specialist cycling media.
LEISURE The essence of Halfords successful business model lies in our range differentiation and strong defensive characteristics.
08 09 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued The Halfords re-branding strategy is complete with all stores now Recognising the quality of our store portfolio and our destination in our orange livery with the exception of three, which will close status in the minds of our customers, we would envisage such this year.
We will continue to invest in our existing estate through opportunities continuing at a similar level for the foreseeable ongoing mezzanine introduction, complemented by a series of future.
refresher activity and space rebalancing programmes, to ensure that our current estate continues to benefit from improvements in Rental inflation has been accelerating in recent years, which has product display and adjacency.
35 such space rebalances took proved challenging given the inherent cost growth.
However, it has place last year, with a similar level of activity planned for 2007 08. become evident that rental inflation is now decelerating, which will clearly be beneficial at future rent reviews.
Most of our store portfolio is located on prime retail parks with A1 consents, where an increasing number of retailers wish to NEW FORMATS participate.
Given our destination store status, this additional We continue to develop new store formats and have focused on demand enables us, in certain circumstances, to readjust our two different customer propositions: store size by introducing a mezzanine for example or by relocating completely.
As this activity frees up incremental rental Neighbourhood stores space within the park we are able to negotiate contributions from Stand-alone Bikehut landlords to facilitate our portfolio programme.
NEIGHBOURHOOD STORES Stores involved in such activity benefit from portfolio investment Complementing Halfords traditional focus on full offer either as a newly built replacement store or receive an upgrade to Superstores, we have developed a smaller store format, known the latest footprint.
Significantly, each of the stores impacted by internally as the Neighbourhood store.
Stores of this nature 2 these changes in the last two years has remained located in its typically operate from a retail footprint of 4,000 ft and carry 6,000 2 existing retail park, and achieved above average sales growth product lines compared to 9,000 ft and 10,000 lines in a following the change.
These stores are proving successful in bringing the Halfords brand to smaller catchments, such as Midsummer Norton and Aberdare.
The performance of the Neighbourhood stores opened to date has proved encouraging, generating payback periods very similar to our current Superstore portfolio.
These stores will be located in either market towns or urban infill sites and we believe there are opportunities to develop about 60 stores in this format in the UK over time.
TOURING SUB-SHOP The new travel and touring sub shop has been introduced to 249 stores providing a dedicated shopping environment for customers.
New products, new packaging and in-store communications enable customers to better understand the choices between different ranges and sales have shown an increase since the introduction of the sub shop concept.
We have opened 15 of these stores to date, with a further six Two initial pilot stores have opened in Brighton November 2006 stores planned to open in the Neighbourhood format in the new and Putney February 2007 with encouraging results.
to our overall market share, we are under-represented in the premium cycle market, which is characterised by a fragmented STAND-ALONE BIKEHUT population of independent specialist stores.
We are confident we Halfords has steadily grown its cycle and cycle accessory can compete very effectively and through Bikehut can grow share business in recent years and established Bikehut as a credible in this sector.
The store look and feel is completely different to a Bikehut subOur Apollo and Carrera own brand cycles have developed shop within a Halfords store.
It has a clear individual identity and a considerably and now arguably lead the market in terms of value.
large range which has a 60% difference to our Superstore offering, We have successfully supported the product offer with the in order to appeal to the specialist consumer.
recruitment and training of specialist colleagues to advise customers and also build and safety check their bikes for them.
In We anticipate operating from six stores by the end of this year as addition, Bikehut branded parts and accessories are now an extended pilot project and assuming success, intend to roll out established as an authoritative range of private label products and to approximately 50 stores across the country.
an accredited cycle repair and full maintenance programme has also been introduced.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS The Republic of Ireland has been a very successful market entry This has placed us in a strong position to launch a number of for Halfords with above average returns on investment being stand-alone specialist cycle shops under the Bikehut brand.
Our generated from those stores opened to date.
From only two stores visible commitment to the premium sector of the market has also trading in January 2005, we are now trading from 12, with six attracted a broader range of specialist cycling brands to be opening during the current financial year.
available in these stores, including Condor, fide Rossa, Pashley, Marzocchi, Endura and Gore-Tex.
There is scope for approximately 20 Superstores in total with further potential provided by our Neighbourhood format for smaller catchments.
BIKEHUT STAND-ALONE STORE The Bikehut stand-alone concept was first introduced in November 2006 and there are now two stores trading in Putney and Brighton with encouraging results.
Sold by dedicated and informed store colleagues, product ranges are 60% differentiated from those in mainstream Halfords stores to cater for the specialist demands of the cycling enthusiast.
10 11 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Building upon the success and learning from our expansion into A programme of site identification and evaluation is under way to the Republic of Ireland in recent years, this year has seen take advantage of the growing and attractive market in the Czech unprecedented levels of activity in pursuing opportunities to take Republic and expansion in adjacent territories will follow after the Halfords brand to new international markets.
evaluation of the pilot stores.
Our first major step to the internationalisation of the Halfords LEVERAGING THE HALFORDS BRAND brand has been the establishment of an office in Prague in the The Halfords product portfolio comprises three major categories: Czech Republic, complete with a local team with retail and buying Car Maintenance Car Parts and Servicing Consumables, Car expertise, supported by functional experts in the UK.
Enhancement In-Car Technology and Performance Styling and Leisure Cycling, Touring and Camping.
A full product offer has been created for the Central European market, with over 10,000 lines evaluated to meet the needs of the CAR MAINTENANCE local market with product sourced either locally in Central Europe, Car Maintenance provides an underlying strength and stability to or through our UK and global supply partners.
A complementary our business, given the needs-driven nature of the product ranges in-country logistics infrastructure has been developed and and we are pleased to see continued sales growth in this area.
Servicing consumables such as car bulbs, wiper blades, batteries The first store will open in Prague in the first half of this financial and oils comprise the significant majority of sales within this year, to be followed by two further stores in the third quarter.
The category and benefit from two favourable dynamics.
Firstly, they combination of our wide and extensive ranges, high levels of inevitably need replacing if the consumer wishes to maintain a customer service and a full garage-servicing offer, will bring a legal and reliable vehicle on the road, providing Halfords with a highly differentiated retail proposition to the Czech market.
dependable customer stream given our store of first choice status and breadth of range.
Secondly, these products are nondiscretionary, needs-driven purchases with low price elasticity.
Our comprehensive stock of 3 million car parts covering approximately 93% of cars in the UK and our market leading authority ensures Halfords has strong product availability consistent with consumer demand.
A good example of our range authority is that we carry over 80 different product lines of oil, acting as a real competitive advantage as manufacturers become increasingly specific about the oil that they recommend to owners of their marque.
CAR MAINTENANCE Through our authority in car bulbs, wiper blades, batteries and oils, this category provides an underlying resilience to our business.
Car maintenance products have continued to grow from needs driven purchases, where extensive range breadth and high levels of availability give Halfords a competitive advantage.
SCRATCH, CHIP AND DENT REPAIR SERVICE Customers across the country are now benefiting from this service that rolled out nationally in October 2006.
With instant quotes available from all Halfords stores, our Car Care Service offers convenience and quality from the UKs leading car parts retailer.
Services are performed by body shop trained technicians and guaranteed for three years and include scratch, chip and dent repair, bumper scuff repair, alloy wheel refurbishment and professional valeting.
CAR MAINTENANCE Car maintenance provides underlying strength and stability to our business... and we are pleased to see continued sales growth in this area.
12 13 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued CAR ENHANCEMENT This changing technology mix increased average retail prices Car Enhancement continued to show growth during the year within this sector of the market in the second half of the year.
Own reflecting an increasing emphasis, particularly by the younger label mix of business has also significantly increased year on year consumer, on enhancing the interior as opposed to the exterior of through the successful introduction of a number of own brand their vehicles.
products, including satellite navigation, in-car DVD and CD players.
Own brand accounted for over 20% of CD audio sales in Targeting those customers, we have introduced new and the year, driven by Ripspeed, which is now a top 5 UK in-car enhanced ranges aimed at broadening the appeal of our interior entertainment brand in its own right.
accessory offer and have benefited from encouraging sales growth as a result.
New mobile phone legislation that came into effect at the end of February 2007 resulted in strong sales of hands free phone The changing dynamics of the in-car electronics market has also solutions.
Motorists caught using a mobile phone in their car now had a major impact, driven by innovation in technology and an risk a three points penalty and a 60 fine.
Halfords range of Hands increase in own brand products.
Our combination of market Free Phone Kits covers all solutions from bluetooth earpieces leading range, knowledgeable colleagues and unique fitting through to professionally, fully fitted hard wire solutions.
capability ensures that Halfords has the right technology solution to meet customers requirements.
Reflecting this service The satellite navigation market continued to grow strongly during advantage, across the total car enhancement category we fitted the last 12 months and Halfords continues to be the pre-eminent over 275,000 technology solutions into our customers cars.
retailer for these products, given our range strength, product knowledge and unique Set Up and Demo proposition.
The trend towards digital music devices such as the iPod and MP3 players and the desire to use these devices in-car has been We have enjoyed good relations with all key suppliers within this met with new product ranges being developed that allow the sector and our improved forward planning of range activity and customer to play their digital music through their car speakers.
marketing has enabled us to both grow sales and improve profitability.
Industry estimates vary, but a consensus would place total car parc penetration for satellite navigation at approximately 10% of the 33 million cars on the road in the UK, indicating that a combination of market potential and product innovation will continue to drive growth in this category.
HANDS FREE LEGISLATION New mobile phone legislation that came into effect in February 2007 resulted in strong sales of hands free phone solutions.
In line with Halfords profile as the UKs leading retailer of in car technology, all stores now feature vibrant imagery and clear point of sale allowing customers to choose from our market leading range from Bluetooth earpieces through to professionally, fully fitted hard wire solutions.
IN-CAR TECHNOLOGY As the UKs number one retailer of in-car technology, Halfords is committed to sourcing market-leading products at competitive prices.
This financial year saw continued range development and included the successful introduction of private label electronics under our Ripspeed brand, offering customers yet more choice.
CAR ENHANCEMENT Our combination of market leading range, knowledgeable colleagues and unique fitting capability, ensures that Halfords has the right technology solution to meet customers requirements.
13562 14 15 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued LEISURE All these cycle ranges are good examples of our ability to source Two-thirds of leisure sales are driven from our Cycling category.
directly from the Far East with improved cost prices but also Through Apollo, the UKs best selling bike brand, and Carrera, the improved quality and specification of individual models as we UKs leading premium cycle brand, our reputation for bikes and have a direct influence on the final specification.
This allows us to cycle accessories continues to be enhanced by the evolution and provide quality bikes that deliver both competitive retail prices and development of these private label products by our specialist improved buying margins.
Working in collaboration with GT, a recognised worldwide During the year we continued to serve more customers, with one premium cycle brand based in the US, a completely new and in three bikes bought in the UK being purchased from Halfords.
exclusive range of bikes was designed in direct discussion with Further development of our Apollo brand, across a number of Halfords and launched exclusively in our stores in October.
The consumer segments such as Kids, Junior, BMX, Adult and the response from customers and specialist press has been excellent, recently introduced Folding Bike ranges, has been recognised by with the new GT I Drive 5 XCR voted a test winner and receiving a customers who have made Apollo the UKs best selling bike brand.
Gold Award in What MTB magazine.
The Carrera range was relaunched in September 2006, with bold For the new financial year we have also been developing further new designs and specifications designed around the needs of the specialist premium ranges in support of further sales opportunities enthusiast cyclist with greater choice across Road, Hybrid, in this sector.
Voodoo, an exclusive product range from the USA, Mountain and with more women specific variants.
The Carrera will be launched in Bikehut stand-alones and our better range now includes carbon fibre frame components for the first performing Bikehut sub-shops.
time and a new All Terrain Mountain Bike the Banshee X that takes Carrera above the 600 price point for the first time.
The Our most exciting development for 2007 08 will be the launch of new Carrera Subway 1 was awarded 10 10 with a Best Buy Award an exclusive range of premium cycles under the Boardman brand.
by Cycling Plus Magazine in March 2007.
30 frame sizes across nine different models are the fruition of two years development with Chris Boardman, Olympic gold medallist and the best cyclist Britain has ever produced.
Bikes will be made to a very high specification but priced very competitively within this sector of the market.
CHILD SEAT LEGISLATION When new child seat legislation was introduced in September 2006, Halfords stock levels were increased to take full advantage of increased customer demand.
Our marketing programme heightened awareness of the impending legislation change and our 2000 trained colleagues enabled our customers to make an informed product choice for their child.
The continued roll-out of the supermezzanine format has helped Within Camping considerable effort was made to source products support additional product and brand choice within Bikehut at directly from the Far East that would appeal to the Halfords Halfords.
Bikehut sub-shops are now in place in all of our 376 customer.
Family tent packs were introduced under the Halfords Superstores across the country.
Each includes a bike workshop brand name and sales exceeded our expectations.
Equally, the that adds credibility to the Bikehut sub-brand as a specialist bike move to private label enhanced profitability.
An increasing number of customers are recognising the success, we anticipate further growth in this attractive market and quality of bikes and service at Halfords, which is why more have further developed our range for 2007 with the introduction of consumers purchased a bike from Halfords than from all the our Urban Escape premium camping range.
independent cycle retailers in the UK added together.
IMPROVING THE SUPPLY CHAIN The extension of Bikehut from a retail brand to a product brand A further key element of the Halfords strategy has been to through a range of premium cycle accessories has been well increase the proportion of product, predominantly private label, received by customers who are looking for high quality which is sourced directly from the Far East.
This objective enables accessories at affordable prices.
The Bikehut brand is our fastest our sourcing teams both in the UK and in Asia to exercise far growing accessory brand with many products sourced directly greater influence and control over the specification, quality and through Halfords Asia which ensures direct control over product functionality of products, often influencing manufacturers in their design and quality delivering competitive retail prices, strong own product development strategy, given the level of expertise buying margins and exclusivity.
Sales of Bikehut accessories are and market understanding our trading teams possess.
now close to 10m, only two years after their launch.
A further material benefit is that by sourcing directly and avoiding On 18 September 2006, legislation was introduced which made it the requirement to source through agents we also benefit from a legal requirement to place all children under 12 years old or improved cost prices.
135 cm in height on a booster seat in a car, as well as wearing a safety belt.
Demand for such child seats increased considerably Price benefits are either reflected in our margin, or reinvested in immediately prior to and also after the legislative change.
In price or product specification to grow sales and market share or a anticipation, we increased our stocks of these products and combination of both.
Given the relatively low stock-turn of our reaped the sales benefit of the demand surge as a consequence.
product range, some of these benefits agreed with suppliers Clearly such sales were beneficial but, placed in context, child during the last financial year will continue to flow during the travel products still remain a relatively small proportion of our total forthcoming year as the new product becomes available.
In June 2004, our sales penetration of product directly sourced Changes to our travel and camping ranges and managing the from the Far East was 7%.
We set an initial target of 20% price architecture within travel products generated encouraging penetration within three years and have now achieved that target sales growth and improved profitability across these product ahead of schedule.
We now source directly from eight different areas.
Travel has now been developed as a clearly defined subcountries in the Far East.
shop within the store in time for 2007 summer period and we would anticipate the category growth to continue.
Increasing numbers of customers are recognising the quality of bikes and service at Halfords, which is why more consumers purchased a bike from us than from all the independent cycle retailers in the UK added together.
16 17 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued In recent months we have recruited individuals with sourcing The cardboard recycling scheme was extended to all stores expertise in electronics and as a result we have been able to during the year, such that over 95% of all cardboard waste introduce a series of own brand in-car technology products, generated is recycled.
We have also reduced the level of waste including Satellite Navigation, In-car DVD, and In-car CD players, consigned to landfill year on year by around 35%.
which also include functionality to play music downloaded onto Within our stores, a three year plan has been agreed in MP3 hardware e. g. the iPod.
partnership with the Carbon Trust to reduce store emissions by a further 8% over that period.
These new product developments often market leading within incar technology have supported the early achievement of our MARKETING THE HALFORDS PROPOSITION penetration target and give us confidence that we can achieve Halfords continued to develop its service offering and delivered greater levels of sales penetration in the future.
another strong year in its fitting and repair services.
Almost 1.2 million customers experienced our professional we fit and we ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATION repair services, an increase of 13% over 2006.
Further research We are naturally aware of the increasing need for all companies to conducted during the year confirmed the brand enhancement and operate responsibly with regard to their impact on the loyalty-driving qualities of these services, with 70% of customers environment.
During the year, we have put in place a series of who had a product fitted by Halfords indicating a likelihood to visit initiatives that will, over time, see further improvements and Halfords more often in the future.
economies generated from Halfords operations.
These initiatives include: We continued to invest in store colleague training via the launch of our training stores network with 700 colleagues now capable of improved efficiency of our transport fleet hardwire technology fitting and almost 2,000 trained to improvements in cardboard recycling professionally and safely install child seats.
We also now have improved energy efficiency from stores over 1,500 colleagues trained to deliver our unique satellite navigation Set up and Demo service.
Sales of our Bike Care During the course of the year, through a combination of engine bike maintenance and warranty product improved during the year, selection on new tractor units, fuel consumption efficiency training helping to deliver a 25% increase in repair jobs.
for drivers, and more efficient vehicle loading, we have seen an increase in weight of product carried per kilometre by 6%.
This We also rolled out nationally our unique Scratch, Chip and Dent means that fewer vehicles were required to deliver our product repair service, where customers can have minor bodywork marks supply requirement to stores and also used less fuel doing so, as repaired at a fraction of the cost of bodyshops, with pleasing fuel efficiency improved by 7%.
levels of early customer uptake.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATION Halfords are continually improving measures to understand and reduce its carbon footprint.
As part of our ongoing initiatives within our transport fleet our fuel efficiency has improved by 7% through a combination of engine selection on new tractor units, fuel consumption efficiency training for drivers and more efficient vehicle loading.
Developing and increasing the level of uptake for our services will OUTLOOK remain a key focus for us in the coming year as we continue to The financial year ended 30 March 2007 is the third year since differentiate ourselves in the retail marketplace.
Halfords became a listed company and in each of these years we have delivered like-for-like sales growth.
Active margin Work was also undertaken during the year to align store team management across all categories has arrested the margin dilution rotas to better meet customer demand patterns for our fitting effect of the previous year and we expect to maintain a broadly services in order to deliver higher levels of on demand fitting for neutral margin position in the forthcoming year, generating gross products such as wiper blades, bulbs and batteries.
A monitoring system was implemented within store operations, Our strategic focus remains to consolidate our position further allowing us to interrogate current in-store rota construction.
We within our key markets, deliver additional growth from new have re-engineered store rotas to optimise the percentage of product areas, proactively source product directly from hours available at weekends to meet customer footfall.
All stores manufacturers, wherever possible, and enhance our store portfolio achieved their optimum rotas during the second quarter of the through opening new stores across each of our formats as well as year and these have been maintained since that time.
The consumer trend towards greater levels of on-line usage seen We have a disciplined reinvestment policy.
Following on from the in the retail and broader consumer market was also felt in Halfords success of our investments in the Republic of Ireland we are on with an extremely pleasing performance from Halfords.
track to develop our international portfolio.
Although at an early Significant growth was achieved in website visitors, as well as onstage, we also see clear potential for the success of new formats line sales and conversion.
Improvements in our website navigation such as Neighbourhood and our stand-alone bike retailing format also help customers more easily research on-line before buying Bikehut.
either on the site or in store.
The combination of our category sales and margin initiatives, our During the year, we implemented a new e-commerce fulfilment space growth and the unique service advantage pursued through system providing flexibility and scalability for future growth.
With the hard work of our colleagues continue to give us confidence in the Internet continuing to influence a growing proportion of retail Halfords future prospects and optimism for the delivery of further sales, we will continue to develop our site to ensure we meet the growth in the forthcoming year.
Developments are planned to further improve our customers research and shopping experience and we expect to introduce a reserve on line, collect in store Ian McLeod, Chief Executive service in 2007 as part of our plans for multi-channel development.
6 June 2007 HALFORDS ONLINE Now currently established as our Number One store, Halfords.
com generated encouraging increases in both unique visitors and conversion year on year.
We will continue to extend our multi-channel offer, including improvements in product imaging and a reserve on line and collect in-store initiative planned for the new financial year.
