04 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Chief Executives strategic review Record revenues and profits once again demonstrating our ability to deliver organic growth.
Record results with 8% organic profit growth We have achieved record revenues and profits once again, demonstrating our ability to deliver organic growth which is the primary measure of our success.
For continuing operations, total revenues increased by 14%, including 8% organic growth, with total profits before amortisation of acquired intangibles also increasing by 14%, including 8% organic.
Impressively, these significant increases were achieved despite a 2% to 3% adverse currency impact during the year.
Strong returns and cash flow supports record dividend and investment Return on sales 2007: 18.6%: 2006: 18.7%, Return on capital employed 2007: 60.1%: 2006: 56.9% and Return on total invested capital 2007: 14.0%: 2006: 12.8% all remained strong or increased in accordance with our objective of generating growth without diluting the quality of our returns.
Cash flow was good and we ended the year with 7.7 million net debt having funded five acquisitions, significant organic growth and a further dividend increase of 5%.
Acquisitions completed in targeted markets The Group completed five acquisitions during the year.
Two of these acquisitions, Mikropack April 2006 and Baldwin Environmental September 2006 added new products to two of our leading Health and Analysis businesses and were merged with these existing businesses immediately on completion.
Of greater significance were Tritech System Technologies November 2006 and Labsphere February 2007 who are world leaders in subsea asset monitoring Industrial Safety and light measurement Health and Analysis respectively.
All five businesses have performed well since joining the Group.
We have allocated more resources to our acquisition search activity as acquisitions continue to be an important element of our long-term growth plans.
Growth in all business sectors and all global regions Each of Halmas three business sectors achieved record revenues and profits.
Infrastructure Sensors grew strongly with profits up 16% from 17% revenue growth following the increased investment in sales and product development made last year.
Health and Analysis performed well generating a 7% increase in profits from revenue up 9%.
This sector makes just under half of all the Groups sales into markets where the currency is US$ or US$-related and bore the brunt of adverse currency movements during the year.
Halma p. l. c. 2007 05 Strategic achievements Strategic directions 8% organic revenue and profit growth drives record results Organic growth to exceed 5% p. a.
Five acquisitions add technology and a new Targeted acquisitions sub-sector business Build on Chinese hubs and grow revenues in Asia Seven Group companies newly represented in Halma hubs Continued management development in Shanghai and Beijing Maintain strong new product introduction 60 senior managers completed Halma Executive Development Programme More than 70 new products launched during 2006 07 Industrial Safety proved once again to be a strong and We have worked hard in recent years to change our culture consistent performer with revenue growth of 15% driving from being too inwardly focussed on managing returns.
included major people changes with over 65% of our subsidiary managers having joined the Group in the past four years.
Geographically, revenues and profits increased in each major territory.
The UK and mainland Europe proved to be particularly Increased investment in training and development, including the strong and our Industrial Safety businesses benefited from flagship Halma Executive Development Programme HEDP continuing high investment in the oil, gas and petrochemical launched 18 months ago, is translating into improved financial industries especially in the Middle East.
performance and greater strategic clarity throughout the Group.
By the end of 2007, over 80 of our senior managers will have Many of our products are used to protect or improve the benefited from the HEDP.
environment which offers us exciting opportunities for growth.
In addition, we recognise that we can do more to minimise the This commitment to improving our people resources means that impact that our business activities have on the environment and internal promotions are now a more realistic and frequent option.
believe we can do this by increasing efficiencies thereby creating Accordingly, it was pleasing for me to promote Mark Lavelle to further value for shareholders.
Examples of the actions we are the Executive Board in April 2007 following five successful taking are included in the Business and financial review.
years as Managing Director of Keeler, one of our Health and Analysis businesses.
This coincided with a change of divisional Greater activity in Asia responsibilities in the Executive Board to ensure we continue to Revenues to Asia Pacific and Australasia grew by 7% and provide fresh insights and new approaches for our businesses.
continue to represent around 10% of Group sales.
Over the medium term, this region offers growth rates in excess of the Halmas long-term growth record continues Group average and, as announced previously, we created Halma Since 1970, Halma has increased revenue every year bar hubs in Shanghai and Beijing in August 2006 to accelerate two.
Today we have very modest net debt of 7.7 million having business development by our subsidiaries in the region.
self-funded organic growth, acquisitions and paid dividends to shareholders over the years totalling 235 million, excluding the This is a good example of how the Group can help our final dividend proposed for this year.
businesses to develop more quickly without compromising their autonomy and freedom.
We regularly review the So what has changed over the past two years to give us a new opportunities for similar Group initiatives in other regions, confidence that we can attain even higher levels of success?
Simply that our proven ability to choose sustainable growth markets is being boosted with greater ambition, customer focus, Product and process innovation driving organic growth more innovation, new technologies and stronger management We maintained a healthy level of investment in Research & resources all driven with a clear strategy for each part of our Development R&D 4.3% of revenues and capital expenditure.
These results demonstrate that we are making good These investments are critical factors in our ability to sustain progress and we remain positive about our prospects for the growth through increasing innovation in products and processes.
Over 70 new products were launched by Halma companies during the year, providing encouragement for our future growth prospects.
Some of these products resulted from collaboration Andrew Williams Chief Executive amongst Group companies.
Increasing investment in talented people Developing and growing businesses already performing at a high level is a challenging task and I would like to thank each employee in every Halma company for their contribution to another successful year for the Group.
