Chief Executive Officers statement In 2007 we have once again demonstrated the power of Management our diversified business model, achieving strong growth and We have made a number of management appointments over delivering healthy returns to shareholders.
the course of the year, adding talented managers with excellent international experience.
In addition to new general managers at Strategy Hikma Egypt and APM, we have made two important oncology Our Branded business performed very well and the opportunities hires a new managing director for Ribosepharm and a global within the MENA region remain exciting.
In our Injectables head of oncology.
business, where we grew sales by nearly 80%, we are creating economies of scale through our growing product portfolio and We have also continued to strengthen our underlying businesses.
enhanced sales and marketing efforts.
In our Generics business In the MENA region, we have hired a new head of licensing, in the US we were able to deliver nearly 10% sales growth and who will focus on further developing our in-licensing potential strong cash flow for the Group despite intense competition and in order to reinforce our position as the partner of choice in the pricing pressure.
In the US, we have appointed a new head of Injectables for the US market and have strengthened our ongoing In 2007 we also made significant investments in our businesses commitment to our oral generic business with senior hires in that will enable us to drive future growth and to deliver on our finance and sales and marketing.
strategy of building Hikma into a leading speciality pharmaceutical company.
We are confident that these appointments will help us to execute our strategy and maximise the opportunities available to us.
Acquisitions We began the year with two excellent acquisitions in Germany Products Ribosepharm and Thymoorgan.
These companies substantially We significantly expanded our product portfolio in 2007, from broaden the scope of our Injectables business, bringing new 176 to 353 products, enhancing our potential in core markets products, customers and manufacturing capabilities and helping and bringing opportunities in newer markets across all regions.
us develop a strong competence in oncology, one of the We have made excellent progress through our in-house R&D industrys fastest growing therapeutic areas.
efforts, with 129 product approvals and 28 new product launches.
The acquisitions of Ribosepharm, Alkan and APM In September, we successfully entered the fast-growing Egyptian have also added a number of exciting new branded generic and market with the acquisition of Alkan Pharma in Egypt and, in in-licensed products that we are only just beginning to leverage December, we further strengthened our position in our core across our network.
Through our licensing efforts, we have MENA markets through the acquisition of Arab Pharmaceutical added three new in-licensed products in MENA.
Looking forward, our pipeline is also impressive, with 104 new I am pleased to report that Ribosepharm and Thymoorgan are products pending approval, including 46 ANDAs and 133 fully integrated into Hikma and we are swiftly integrating Alkan products under development.
At Alkan, now Hikma Egypt, we have appointed a new general manager with an in depth knowledge of the Capacity Egyptian market, where we are working hard to establish the In order to meet the growing demand for our products, we Hikma brand.
In Jordan, an excellent Hikma-trained team have continued to invest in expanding our existing capacity has joined the APM team, where they are strengthening key and improving our operational efficiency during 2007. functions and developing the potential of this excellent business.
Our ongoing capital expenditure projects were enhanced by this We continue to see opportunities to develop our business years acquisitions, further expanding capacity and adding new through acquisitions.
Being a consolidator in the highly manufacturing capabilities.
In our Branded business, we are now fragmented pharmaceutical market in the MENA region will investing in our plants in Jordan and Saudi Arabia and expect to remain a priority and we will continue to look for opportunities make further investments in 2008 in Egypt and at APM to to enhance our position in core markets and to access new maximise the potential of these facilities.
In our Injectables emerging markets.
business, we are adding further lyophilisation capacity in our facilities in Portugal and are increasing utilisation of our new cephalosporin plant.
We continue to focus on building Hikma into a leading speciality pharmaceutical company delivering high returns on investment to our shareholders.
Said Darwazah Chief Executive Officer Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 13
