HOW we create value Chief Executives statement Our objective is to grow By the time you read this you will To do this, we need to understand a profitable, worthwhile, probably be aware that Galiform has how to create value in every area clearly focussed business reported a very successful year.
2007 value delivered to end-users and that is capable of continuing was also an important year for the builders, value generated in depots to deliver increasing value business in several respects.
In a and in our supply activity.
nutshell, we were able to demonstrate clearly that our strategy works.
End users The kitchen is increasingly the centre Our objective is to grow a profitable, of the home, not just a place where worthwhile, clearly focussed business food is prepared.
It needs to look that is capable of continuing to good as well as work good design, deliver increasing value to all parties as well as quality, are now expected.
customers, staff, suppliers As the kitchen itself becomes more and shareholders.
sophisticated, both in form and function, it also becomes more DIY has given way to DFY Last year, we continued to develop complex to install.
Add to this a or done for you Howdens against the background constant stream of legislation and in other words, installation of the restructuring that was a regulation concerning safety in the by a professional.
necessary part of creating a focused home, and its easy to see why commercial organisation.
With the DIY has given way to DFY or termination of our contract to supply done for you in other words, MFI, we can concentrate on our core installation by a professional.
trade customers and ensure that the interests of all those involved in the Economics and demographics drive business are properly aligned.
the timing of the decision to install a new kitchen.
As the population Howdens unique skill is the ability to grows, so does the number of singleco-ordinate every element of what we person households, which means do so that the outcome is a properly more kitchens are needed.
Local working kitchen, supplied complete, authorities and landlords are constantly at the right price and when required renewing, repairing and adapting from stock.
to meet the needs of tenants.
indd 8 26 3 08 10:39:35 Galiform plc Annual Report 2007 This is a business that is about Interest rate uncertainties and lack make money.
Howdens helps them trust, personal relationships of momentum in parts of the housing do this by supplying the product they and reliability.
market tend to make homeowners want rigid boxes, ready to install think about home improvement, from stock, locally, at the right price and adding value to their existing on suitable terms.
That means everyday property rather than moving house.
low price rather than promotions, which helps builders to plan ahead: a trade Local authorities, private landlords, discount, which represents their margin: developers and homeowners all and a net monthly account, which helps increasingly use local professional them to manage cash flow.
This is a builders to ensure that they have business that is about trust, personal working kitchens fitted to budget relationships and reliability.
see the same faces in their local depot week in, week out.
Around the country Builders 200,000 builders know they can rely on These local builders are Howdens Howdens to help solve their problems.
core customers the people who use our depots every day.
A builder acts as a project manager, with lots of projects on the go at any one time.
As well as having a craft skill, builders are also business people who need to Routes to market new build Repair Maintenance Improvement Big builders Landlords Retail 180,000 houses per annum 8 million homes 16 million homes Small builder 9 GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
indd 9 26 3 08 10:39:35 T TH He e business revie business revieW W HOW we create value HOW we create value Chief Executives statement continued Each depot is set up so Depots We keep depot costs to a minimum.
that it can maximise margins When builders go in to one of our The average depot is around 10,000 while minimising costs.
depots, they can get what they want square feet in size with a rental cost in a straightforward trade environment.
of approximately 5 per square foot.
Each depot is set up so that it can Rents are low because the depot maximise margins while minimising is sited somewhere thats convenient costs.
We have local accountability, for the trade customer, rather than so depot managers have real in a smart retail location.
They can tailor stock to what they know sells locally, and We dont advertise, but we do produce they can price and market it to suit market-leading catalogues that show local demand.
Their bonus is based our entire product both in detail on a percentage of their own depots and in room sets so that builders, profi t, less any stock loss.
Their staff and their customers, can see how it are incentivised on local margin, too.
During the Everyones interests are aligned.
year, we opened our Expo Centre, in Kent, which showcases leadingOn average, it will take seven years edge designs, encouraging feedback for a depot to reach maturity, with from architects, project specifi ers its continuing growth driven by and developers as well as from staff its manager and staff, who are and customers.
We also have two responsible for building business in large show-trailers that take the Expo their local area.
Over the past two concept around the country, visiting years, weve opened 94 depots, each depot so that everyone can get bringing the total to 436 at the yeara fl avour of whats current, and whats end.
We are confi dent that our model, new, in kitchen design.
and market trends, will support the further expansion of our network to at least 600 depots.
indd 10 26 3 08 10:39:40 Galiform plc Annual Report 2007 Agility and speed to market Supply We achieve lowest cost production are key to our success.
As kitchens become more because we have very long runs sophisticated, we are developing 120,000 boxes a week at peak periods.
our product range, focussed on what builders customers actually Howdens has a powerful but simple want.
We have a test laboratory and customer proposition: prototype studio to learn, develop, look ahead and embrace failure as a first class kitchens route to success.
Agility and speed to market are key to our success.
in volume We currently offer 42 kitchens, a wide range of doors, appliances and from stock worktops, and two basic boxes one white, and one brown.
selling to 180,000 account customers Our priority for the year ahead We make what it makes sense is to build on our strong market to make, and we buy what it makes on a repeat basis.
position... delivering even greater sense to buy.
Since January 2006, value to all involved.
the proportion of manufactured We now have a proven business product has decreased from 50% model, operating at scale, supplying an to 30%, the amount of manufacturing increasingly demanding and supportive and logistics space we occupy has customer base.
Our priority for the year decreased by 40%, and the number ahead is to build on our strong market of stock keeping units we manufacture position, generating further efficiencies, has gone down from 4,300 to 1,100. improving our processes and delivering even greater value to all involved.
Our Supply activity has to be costeffective in every area.
Our trucks run Matthew Ingle full to our depots, we are streamlining Chief Executive our use of space and we are constantly working on improving logistics and 5 March 2008 manufacturing efficiency.
We build boxes because it isnt economic or sensible to ship them around the world.
indd 11 26 3 08 10:39:41 T TH He business revie e business revieW W HOW we create value
