Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives Strategic Review A strategy for growth It has been another record year for Imperial Tobacco with further growth in cigarette volumes, cigarette market share gains within all regions and excellent performances from our key brands.
National Association of Attorneys General.
We have nalised our plans for the development of our own brands and are in a position to begin their rollout once we have completed all aspects of becoming a participating manufacturer in the Master Settlement Agreement.
In our manufacturing operations, our productivity increased by 7 per cent demonstrating the excellent progress we continue to make with our ongoing business efficiency and simplication strategies.
Altadis In regard to our proposed acquisition of Altadis, we received European Commission clearance in October 2007, Gareth Davis subject to the enlarged Group divesting Chief Executive a small number of ne cut and pipe tobacco and cigar brands in certain Performance Overview European markets.
As previously highlighted Our cigarette volumes were up by 7 per cent this will not materially affect the operational with key growth areas including Central and and financial performance of the Eastern Europe, Germany and Asia together enlarged Group.
We expect approval of with six months contribution from the our offer by the CNMV, the Spanish regulator, Commonwealth Brands business.
soon and expect to complete the deal in Cigarette market shares increased in our January 2008.
The rights issue, which is core markets of the UK and Germany as well part nancing the acquisition, will occur as in Western Europe, Central and Eastern before 18 July 2008.
Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Our successful brand strategy has Regulation ensured continued positive developments We have a long history of co-operation for our key brands Davidoff, West and JPS, with authorities in the markets in which we growing volumes by 5 per cent, 9 per cent operate and we remain committed to working and 18 per cent respectively.
Since our constructively with governments and regulatory acquisition of the Davidoff cigarette trademark bodies worldwide.
We believe that sound, in September 2006, we have launched reasonable and practicable regulation, Davidoff in several new markets and developed in consultation with the tobacco introduced a number of successful brand industry, is the most effective approach.
variants, all contributing to our volume and market share gains.
Our Commitment to Corporate As well as developments in our existing Responsibility markets, the acquisition of Commonwealth In recent years, we have built a strong Brands has given us a rm foothold in the framework in which we manage our profitable US market.
We are extremely Corporate Responsibility activities, ensuring pleased with its early performance, with that we live up to the high standards we set returns on investment in the first six months for ourselves and the high expectations our exceeding our weighted average cost of stakeholders have of us.
Our success to date capital.
Our Master Settlement Agreement has been reected in several performance application is progressing and we expect improvements which will be reported in to complete our application in a few weeks detail in our Corporate Responsibility following constructive dialogue with the Review published in December.
