Chairmans and Chief Executives Report Chairmans and Chief Executives Report subscription.
Its subscriptions renew annually at 90%, Our 2007 performance successfully builds constituting a powerful recurring revenue stream.
But upon the excellent results achieved in 2006.
Datamonitor has high growth too.
It achieved a 22% pro forma revenue increase and a pro forma adjusted We have built a pool of information assets in Informa which operating profit rise of 59% for the full year on the same cover many different vertical markets as well as geographic period a year earlier.
Datamonitors internet-delivered territories, and which deliver content in a broad range of knowledge centres of international data in the healthcare, media formats.
This is designed to enable us to capture the telecoms, finance, automotive, energy and retail sectors different requirements of individual users within industries are all now fully XML coded, enabling users to interrogate and meet global and local needs with equal proficiency.
its information intuitively to obtain their own uniquely We believe that our business now has the characteristics customised solutions.
not only to demonstrate superior growth in expanding economies but also to protect profitability.
As we enter 2008 Datamonitors products will be increasingly co-marketed to our conference, publishing Our major acquisition of 2007 contributes significantly to and performance improvement customers and audiences.
Datamonitor, for which we paid The inter-relationship between the different parts of 510m in July, is an electronic information business serving Informa is one of the key contributors to the superior six global sectors predominantly through growth we have seen over the last few years.
Many large media businesses structure themselves in silos and find it difficult to sell different product types to the same customer bases.
At Informa we work hard at making sure we offer as much relevant content as we can, whatever the mode of delivery, to customers likely to find value in it.
In so doing we grow and develop brands which our customers trust and return to.
The marketing requirements of our conference business, with more than 12,500 events produced in 2007, are such that we have many opportunities to put relevant related products in front of potential customers.
Informa benefits here from a unique advantage: our database of 20m names of individual customers, clients and prospects in more than 150 countries across the world.
It enables us to market our products quickly and cost effectively.
It means we can cross market and cross sell seamlessly.
And it ensures that we can respond appropriately to the dynamics of individual markets: some may be experiencing strong growth with fast rising information demand: others may be seeing a slowdown in the pace of development.
The strength of the Informa database allows us to direct our output appropriately to changing levels of customer need.
10 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Chairmans and Chief Executives Report Our international conference business grew pro forma become headline news, as biofuels has now become, adjusted operating profit by 27% in 2007 with our enables Informa to build future growth as well as deliver burgeoning Dubai business again leading the way with current contribution.
In biofuels, as in other fields, we 38% year on year revenue growth.
As Middle East event surround leading branded events with news, information market leaders we produced 20 leading exhibitions products and databases.
including the developing worlds largest property Informas publishing businesses continued to benefit from investment show, Cityscape, which attracted more than the shift to electronic distribution in the year.
Most of our 50,000 visitors to the Dubai show.
Similar numbers customers whether academic, professional or commercial, attended Arab Health, the regions premier healthcare now want to receive their information from us in event whose 2,000 stands attracted visitors from over electronic forms.
This has enabled us increasingly to sell 65 countries.
Our Dubai operation also produced over enterprise-wide information packages, moving away from 500 conferences and training courses reflecting the more traditional personal subscription based models.
fast expanding diversity of the local economy.
The higher prices this wider dissemination carries, coupled The Dubai business also rolled out several of its winning with growing income from electronic archive sales helped events within the Middle East region and beyond.
our Academic & Scientific business to grow its revenues by Cityscape ran satellite shows in Abu Dhabi, Brazil, 15% and its adjusted operating profit by 25% in the year.
Singapore, Shanghai and Mumbai in 2007 and further Trialtrove, the worlds largest database of clinical trials international roll-outs are planned.
This geo-cloning of data, which is fast becoming an essential resource for the successful event formulas also saw us extending our major worlds pharmaceutical industry grew its sales by over European based finance events under the market-leading 40% in the year to contribute to that result.
In the legal ICBI brand into Asia and the Americas.
The worlds largest market our law portal i-law.
com saw a 200 % increase in private equity event Super Return was staged in Asia and revenue.
The migration of our telecoms information from our leading hedge fund event GAIM ran in the Cayman newsletters to on-line Intelligence Centres, similar in Islands and Dubai as well as in Europe.
Extending leading construct to Datamonitors Knowledge Centres further brands across geographies is providing a further strong fuelled our growth.
The Performance Improvement PI group of companies Informas top 200 event brands contributed some 40% also achieved double digit pro forma adjusted operating of event revenue and approximately 70% of adjusted profit growth in the year.
Some 40% of these companies operating profit but the smaller events too play their revenues now come from over 16 different US federal important part.
While less spectacular in size, the government departments.
This highly resilient workshop or seminar or small conference makes a government revenue stream, led by our programme financial contribution and also keeps us at the forefront management company Robbins-Gioia, enjoyed good of new developments.
A new early stage piece of scientific growth in the year while overseas revenues for the PI or technological research, a legislative change or a businesses climbed to almost 20% of their total sales, commercial development may be of relatively narrow up from 15% in 2006. interest today but could become tomorrows blockbuster.
In 2007 we ran the 10th World Ethanol Forum in Amsterdam with more than 700 attendees.
The first event in 1997 attracted just 40.
Researching topics before they Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 11
