Chairmans and Chief Executives Review: Trading Outlook Trading Outlook Were enjoying a great start to the year.
Combining the speed of a small company, with the resources of a large one, were able to capture opportunity where we find it.
Debra Chipman Left: Debra Chipman, CEO.
IIRUSA, IBCUSA, and Global Life Sciences Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 37 Chairmans and Chief Executives Review: Trading Outlook Trading Outlook All three of Informa's divisions and revenue streams have started the year well and are trading in line with our expectations.
Publishing is positioned well for 2008.
Renewal rates of over 95% and the addition of 300 new academic journals in the current year combined with content driven price increases underpins both revenue and profit growth in the Academic & Scientific division.
In addition, an already robust pipeline of books is further bolstered by the publication of the 5th edition of Molecular Biology of the Cell, our leading book title.
Electronic workflow solutions in the Academic & Scientific, Professional and Commercial divisions are all seeing strong client retention and new business wins.
Datamonitor in particular has begun the year well: new sales recorded in January were 24% ahead of the same month last year.
As a result of the Datamonitor acquisition, we expect almost 60% of Informas 2008 profits to come from publishing.
80% of these profits are derived from our subscription products.
Almost half of these revenues are already banked.
Publishing revenue overall recognised and deferred at the end of January accounted for almost a third of expected full year revenue.
38 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Chairmans and Chief Executives Review: Trading Outlook Event revenues recognised and deferred are currently The Performance Improvement PI businesses have significantly ahead of this same point last year.
Over had a solid start to the year, underpinned by 2007 revenue retention of over 90% and good international 20% of 2008 expected delegate revenues are already sales growth.
Non US revenue in January is over 20% booked.
At our 2007 events we secured on-site higher than a year ago.
renewals of some 75% of our SpEx clients for this years events.
This strong revenue renewal, coupled with In December Omega, the financial service specialists good early new sales with deferred revenues running who had a weaker second half of 2007, signed two at double digit growth on prior year, means that we large contracts with US banks both of whom had now have firm bookings on a substantial portion of been significantly impacted by the sub prime turmoil, our budgeted 2008 SpEx revenues.
looking to rebound quickly with reinvigorated market presence.
Omegas pipeline is currently over 20% We are of course aware of the current uncertainty in ahead of the same point last year.
Total value of the financial markets, but at this point the board sees opportunities across all PI pipelines supports our no reason to alter its expectations that Informa will growth expectations for this year.
deliver another strong performance in 2008.
The events businesses have also started the year well.
Three of our largest and most established events were held in the first weeks of the year each in a different sector and each achieving the most successful results in their history.
SuperReturn, the worlds largest Private Equity event now in its 11th year, has had record delegate attendance and sponsorship and exhibition SpEx revenues.
Arab Health, the premier Middle East healthcare show, occupied the entire Dubai International Convention & Exhibition Centre, covering more than 60,000sqm of gross space.
Energie, the German national energy event, attracted more delegates then ever before and increased SpEx revenue by 11%.
Newer events, such as Ukraine Investment, were also highly successful.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 39
