Chairman and Chief Executive Officers Business Review 2007 will go down as one of the most productive and exciting years in the twenty-nine year history of Inmarsat.
Not only did we launch six new services on the back of our next generation Inmarsat-4 satellite investment programme, but through this extension of broadband services to our maritime and aeronautical customers, we laid the foundation for a future of further growth in the delivery of higher speed data and voice services to our global customers.
Andrew Sukawaty Chairman and Chief Executive Officer For more information about our strategy and how it drives the business go to: inmarsat.
com investor relations Inmarsat plc 04 Annual report and accounts 2007 Our customers use our services for For our customers, shareholders and mission critical activities globally, at staff, we can report that Inmarsat exits times in the most extreme environments 2007 in solid financial shape poised to on our planet.
Whether its life saving deliver more in the years ahead.
Beyond services at sea, humanitarian efforts the six service launches in 2007, we in war zones on land or vital did more to set the foundation for communication services while airborne, the future.
We funded an independent they depend on Inmarsat services to company, to allow them to purchase be there when they need them.
This is our largest distributor, Stratos Global an obligation which we take extremely Corporation Stratos, thus giving us seriously at Inmarsat.
It not only drives an option to purchase Stratos in 2009 our service quality levels and reliability, when the restrictions on our direct it also drives our push into broadband ownership of distribution expires.
This services, allowing our customers to move will put us on an equal footing access the same services in the same with all of our global competitors in way, wherever they go globally.
At the same time it should help us further develop a global support Our US$1.5bn investment in our next organisation for our distribution partners generation Inmarsat-4 satellites now and service providers.
We also optimised gives our customers confidence that further our capital structure in 2007 by these services will be there for them at successfully issuing a convertible bond.
This is important In addition, we reached agreement with on ships, aircraft and on vehicular based a satellite company to co-operate in platforms, to not only protect the a multi-year programme to recongure investments our customers make in our radio spectrum in a way that allows terminals and installation, but also to us both to pursue an exciting emerging assure them that the procedures and opportunity in the US and Canada, for a training they invest in today, will apply hybrid satellite terrestrial wireless system, for many years to come.
while preserving spectrum alongside it for our global mobile services.
In addition, we have taken great care If successful in the years ahead, this with the Inmarsat-4 eet to ensure it can has the potential to change dramatically support virtually all of the services on how we deliver services globally.
This backward compatibility helps our customers fully We successfully undertook all of these utilise and extend the investments activities while still ensuring that our core they have made, as they can choose business delivered excellent results.
to migrate to new services on their own schedule in the future.
This is best The consolidated results for Inmarsat plc illustrated by the fact that the average include the financial results of CIP UK life of one of Inmarsats terminals on Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries, a ship is approximately ten years and including Stratos CIP for the period on aircraft our customers intend for it to 11 December 2007 to 31 December be even longer.
In my report, the focus will be unique position for our global franchise on the financial results relating to the through the forward-looking investments Inmarsat Core business, which excludes we have made over the last seven years.
I will explain about the 2007 marked the beginning of the next CIP transaction in a little more detail part of our investment cycle, launching further on in my report.
new and better services to keep up with the growing needs of our customers Revenues for the Inmarsat Core business in an ever-changing world.
By providing for 2007 were US$557.2m, an increase them with wireless data and voice of US$57.1m, or 11.4% compared with connectivity in environments not served 2006.
We maintained careful cost control by terrestrial wireless networks, we are throughout the year with increases part of a trend that is shaping our world.
The move towards wireless broadband With our strong revenue growth and well and voice connectivity is in its early controlled costs, our EBITDA earnings stages, but Inmarsat intends to be before interest, tax, depreciation there for its customers with the services and amortisation increased by 16% they are demanding globally, by to US$383.5m, being US$51.8m ahead extending their wireless access to the of 2006.
Our EBITDA margin was 69% most extreme environments.
This what they have come to expect and increase in revenues shows that we are rely on from Inmarsat.
exceeding our targets set at the time of the IPO in 2005.
Inmarsat plc 05 Annual report and accounts 2007 l a n F i o n i t a a n r c e i a p l O Chairman and Chief Executive Officers Business Review continued With the improvement of our results and 98% of the worlds population.
While we cannot exercise the throughout the year, we increased our Call Option to purchase Stratos until The launch of the third in this series interim dividend paid in October 2007, of satellites is planned for as early April 2009, we fully expect to do so.
This to 11.55 cents US$ an increase of 8.3% will allow us to evolve our distribution as practicable in 2008.
Your Board is recommending in-orbit operation of this third Inmarsat-4 structure, which was created when we a final dividend of 17.33 cents US$, were an intergovernmental organisation, satellite, we are well advanced with the also being an 8.3% increase over 2006. construction of a ground station in into a more efficient and competitive These increases are in line with our one, putting us nally on equal footing Hawaii, USA, which once completed, will policy of building sustainable cash transmit and receive our BGAN and with others in our industry.
other trafc to and from our satellite network.
We have continued elsewhere Our relationship with our distribution Strategy partners is vital to the ongoing success in the world to invest in our satellite network.
We recently established a of our businesses and we believe Earlier in this report, I referred to the a partnership approach is key to facility in Subic Bay, in the Philippines CIP transaction and that we are required in co-operation with the Philippine Long achieving this.
Whilst we have the to consolidate the financial results from option indirectly to acquire our largest Distance Telephone Company to service CIP into our own results for accounting our satellite phone services.
distributor in the future, we remain reasons more fully covered in the committed to working closely with all Chief Financial Ofcers Report.
In March The building and launching of our partners.
Our existing distribution 2007, we announced that we were agreements expire in April 2009 and satellites is a lengthy process, providing a loan through a wholly consuming significant capital resources.
we have already provided our owned Inmarsat subsidiary called distributors with new agreements which While we are now starting the initial Inmarsat Finance III Limited Inmarsat III planning for our next generation of are updated to provide new commercial to CIP UK Holdings Limited CIP UK arrangements for the provision of satellites the Inmarsat-5s, we have to fund the acquisition by its wholly also secured the opportunity to become our services in the future.
We will be owned subsidiary company CIP Canada working closely with our partners to the commercial partner of the Alphasat Investment Inc CIP Canada to acquire project for the development of a new put these new agreements in place Stratos, our largest distribution partner.
for April 2009. satellite operating in L-band spectrum.
This transaction closed on 11 December This new satellite will be complementary 2007 and the Stratos shares are now Our ambition is to have a global reach to our existing Inmarsat-4 constellation.
Inmarsat III has However, given the option we have for our broadband data services, the right to exercise a Call Option to operating over our most recently for two more satellites, this programme acquire CIP UK, which indirectly owns is potentially the first step in the launched satellite constellation the Stratos, after 14 April 2009 when certain Inmarsat-4s.
The current Inmarsat-4 eet implementation of our next generation of our existing distribution agreements Inmarsat-5 programme, for launch covers 85% of the worlds landmass towards the end of the next decade.
Alphasat is a European Space Agency Inmarsats Strategic project and is an opportunity for Perspectives Inmarsat to participate in a major European initiative.
We look forward to working with our partners on this Highly reliable trusted Highest reliability for data transmission standard satellite programme.
on the move Accelerate revenue growth in Spectrum is a valuable resource for Bundled value voice core business and new services our business and with the launch of Competitive reliable handheld Maintain fixed cost base through the Alphasat satellite, we will have service primarily wholesale approach access to additional L-band spectrum and capex holiday Premium services over Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
good value A professionally rewarding, In addition, as part of our spectrum challenging and enjoyable To serve mission critical Innovative services place to work planning over the Americas, at the needs with mobile end of 2007, we also concluded applications where discussions with Mobile Satellite terrestrial networks are not effective or are Ventures and its afliates MSV To deliver superior total Increase our position non-existent shareholder returns by as the leading mobile regarding the efficient reuse and increasing revenue growth satellite services MSS reorganisation of L-band spectrum in on a largely fixed cost base provider the Americas.
In December, we entered Build sustainable cash returns Technology leader in MSS into a co-operation agreement for to shareholders spectrum reuse between us and MSV.
Broad range of leading innovative This agreement is important as it will Prudent capex planning services allow increased spectrum efficiency and Premium services protect mobile satellite communications good value services MSS in the Americas and Ancillary Terrestrial Component ATC operations from interference as well as enable potential ATC operations in the future in North America.
Inmarsat plc 06 Annual report and accounts 2007 t I e n k d r a u s M t r y r e P m o s o i t t s i o u n C The satellite industry banded together generally while on the move, for an the level of voice revenue in the future.
in force to inuence the decision taken attractive value compared with the We launched FleetPhone in November at the 2007 World Radiocommunication all in cost of other services.
When 2007 as the third in the family of our Conference of the International compared with VSAT, we are more satellite phone services.
FleetPhone is Telecommunication Union to ensure economical: when compared with targeted at ships crews offering low-cost the uninterrupted use of the C-band the other MSS operators, we are global, calls to family and friends easily without spectrum for the future.
This was very offer higher data speeds and have interfering with the ships operations on important as we use C-band spectrum a fully-funded new constellation in the bridge.
With the introduction in 2007 for telemetry, tracking and control of our the sky, which our customers can count of a new pre-pay facility for users of our satellites and feeder links.
By ensuring on beyond the end of the next decade.
Satellite Phone Services, we believe that its protection, we can continue to offer These are combined claims no other this will provide them with a simpler, essential communications to mobile can make.
We believe this is particularly more exible payment system.
As spectrum planning is integral relevant as some operators have ageing to our business operations, monitoring satellite constellations compared to our As well as the introduction of FleetPhone, regulatory views about its use is one Inmarsat-4 satellite constellation where we also announced the launch in of our key activities.
we expect service to be available at least November 2007 of FleetBroadband until 2023. which operates using the same network Review of operations capability as our BGAN service for land As I mentioned at the start of my report, users.
FleetBroadband provides users In this section, I will only be reporting 2007 saw six different product launches, with simultaneous voice and high-speed on the Inmarsat Core business.
I have across each of our principal business data capabilities and the service not commented on the financial results sectors.
In Inmarsats history, we have has been well received by the market.
never launched so many services in We expect this new service to serve one year.
the maritime industry at least until 2023.
Our Inmarsat Core business has Several customers are currently continued the trend of recent years with undertaking trials of the new service and an increasing volume of data trafc, now we are receiving positive feedback which representing more than 75% of revenue makes us optimistic about the take-up from our on-demand services.
This has of this service later in 2008 and beyond.
been fuelled by increased usage of our Our focus has been to introduce digital BGAN service which provides the user services to our maritime users to provide with simultaneous voice and broadband them with more cost efficient and data capabilities.
We now believe that effective communications channels and this service has wide acceptance in our in managing a transition from analogue established user markets, such as media, to digital services, we switched off our and that its use will continue to grow first maritime service, Inmarsat A, at the into new markets as well as expanding end of December 2007.
Inmarsat A, our further into our traditional market only analogue service, had served the sectors.
The increase in our active maritime community for 26 years but Maritime sector terminal numbers during 2007 reected technological advances meant that we MSS revenue Maritime revenue good growth in Fleet and Swift 64 could offer improved services by moving 2007 2007 terminals serving the maritime and to digital solutions.
The Fleet family and aeronautical sectors respectively, with now FleetBroadband full the modern 33 increasing numbers of active BGAN mariners communications needs.
Once again, as last year our 57 satellite availability is better than 99.99% Following the very successful coverage 67 which continues to reect the stability of generated by the round-the-world our operations, providing peace of mind Volvo Ocean Race in 2005 2006, we to those using our network for critical are delighted once again to be acting operational activities.
as the ofcial provider of satellite Maritime 57% Voice 33% communications for the 2008 2009 Other 43% Data 67% We continue to see competition across Race.
Our services will play a key role all our market segments from other MSS in relaying the excitement and action operators, VSAT providers and telecoms Revenues during 2007 from the maritime from the worlds premier yacht operators extending their infrastructure sector were US$310.3m, an increase of competition to a global audience of capabilities.
We rmly believe that US$25.6m or 9% compared to 2006.
Our technology is a through our current portfolio, offering revenues increased by 13% during 2007 key enabler for all aspects of the Race broadband data and high quality voice driven by increased usage of our Fleet including position reporting, sending services, and now with broadband services.
In previous years, we have not live video footage or photos, providing services available on land, on sea and in been able to respond competitively to safety communications in the event of an the air, we are well placed to be the best cheaply priced voice calls from accident and for boosting crew morale choice for customers requiring these competitors, but our Fleet voice service by enabling them to make personal calls services.
Our position is to offer highly and our new FleetPhone are starting to and send emails.
Use in this Race clearly reliable mobile broadband and voice have a positive impact on stabilising the demonstrates the reliability of Inmarsats services which are designed to work in reduction in revenue from voice calls and services often in the most harsh of the most extreme weather environments, we hope that these services will increase environments at sea.
Inmarsat plc 07 Annual report and accounts 2007 Chairman and Chief Executive Officers Business Review continued reliability of the BGAN service that within US$44.3m.
The increase is primarily due two years of its launch it has received to increased demand for our Swift 64 these impressive endorsements.
As well as its broadband speeds, our Users of the Swift 64 service include BGAN service also incorporates an government aircraft and the business excellent voice capability and we believe jet market and also certain commercial that this facility, together with the airlines.
Revenues from our classic introduction of our handheld satellite aeronautical services, such as Inmarsat phone, the IsatPhone, will compete very H H, which are compliant with ICAOs effectively in terms of form and price standards for the provision of cockpit Land mobile sector against the products of other MSS safety services, also continued to grow.
We therefore expect our MSS revenue Land revenue 2007 2007 market share of voice business to In October 2007, we announced increase as these services become the eagerly awaited launch of our 12 23 more embedded with users, especially SwiftBroadband service to provide as the satellite constellations for some high-speed data connectivity in the existing MSS operators may be coming air.
Our network has been upgraded to the end of their lives.
We expect the to accommodate this new service 77 88 IsatPhone to become more widely used which will allow aircraft to operate once the globalised version of the phone seamlessly across satellite spot beams.
SwiftBroadband is our first fully Land 23% Voice 12% IP-based service for the air transport Other 77% Data 88% We launched a new low data rate market and uses the now established service, called IsatM2M, in September BGAN technology.
The service is In 2007, revenues from the land mobile 2007 which is a next-generation already available through several of sector were US$125.8m, an increase of satellite telematics service based on our distribution partners and their 8.4% compared to 2006.
As with our our already well-known Inmarsat extensive reseller networks with five maritime sector, revenues from the D service.
This service offers quick leading manufacturers developing the use of data increased by 14.6% to reporting and increased end-to-end avionics and antennae for the service.
US$111.0m reecting continued strong functionality for companies who need growth in our BGAN services.
As we global asset tracking and to monitor We understand that the majority of have reported in previous years, we such assets securely.
new long-haul aircraft currently being have noticed a decline in high-speed built by Boeing and Airbus, such as the data trafc in the Middle East but we Boeing 777 and Airbus A380, will be are seeing good signs of growth in the tted with antennae capable of use of BGAN across a significant number accessing SwiftBroadband which is a of countries, some where previously we strong endorsement of the value of this had little or no trafc.
We have recorded new service to users.
A simple upgrade BGAN trafc now in over 190 countries.
path to the higher-speed service is also Our BGAN revenues during 2007 available to existing aero users.
were US$36.6m, an increase of 285% compared with 2006, which was our first We are very excited about the continuing full year of BGAN service.
The number trials of in-ight use of mobile phones of active BGAN subscribers during the and other communications devices such year more than doubled to 15,817. as PDAs and BlackBerrys.
The trials are being conducted by our distribution With the strong take-up of our BGAN Aeronautical sector partners and more airlines have signed service, we have announced to our agreements to explore in-ight mobile MSS revenue Aeronautical revenue partners that we will be switching off the connectivity.
The regulatory issues 2007 2007 R-BGAN service the pre-cursor service associated with the use of mobile 8 9 to BGAN.
We are starting to see users communications in-ight are closely migrating to BGAN from R-BGAN and monitored by authorities around the providing good feedback about BGANs world.
In the UK, Ofcom has indicated capabilities.
We had expected that there its willingness to implement the mutual would be some migration from our recognition framework including the 91 92 GAN service as well and this appears to granting of licences to UK aircraft be starting, with, for example news and operators on request, and now with TV companies using BGAN alongside the Open Skies agreement in place, US Aeronautical 8% Voice 9% Other 92% Data 91% GAN to provide additional capabilities.
and European airlines will be able freely We were delighted when CNN, one of to compete for transatlantic routes.
the worlds leading broadcasters, was We believe airlines will use in-ight recently awarded two awards for its As in 2006, our aeronautical sector connectivity offerings as a differentiator newsgathering system which uses BGAN.
continued its impressive performance in of their services and we hope this It is a marvellous recommendation of the 2007 with revenues increasing by 44% to will stimulate additional usage of our Inmarsat plc 08 Annual report and accounts 2007 Swift 64 and SwiftBroadband services.
We are also very proud of our capacity and position us for new service We are confident that SwiftBroadband agreement with Unescos offerings in the future.
will become as successful as our Intergovernmental Oceanographic Swift 64 service over the coming years.
Commission IOC for us to upgrade With the support of our customers, and improve its Indian Ocean alerting our employees, our distribution partners, Government sector system.
The system will use BGAN to service partners and manufacturers, warn of future tsunamis.
Its use will allow we can achieve more.
We would like Government usage of our services runs automatic data collection every minute to thank them all for the passion and through all our sectors maritime, land allowing the IOC to monitor sea level enthusiasm which they all bring to the mobile, aeronautical and leasing and changes and respond to any alerts.
We Inmarsat partnership and the trust they covers all government sectors including are pleased to be providing free airtime put in us.
We would like to thank military and civilian agencies.
for the start-up of this programme.
particularly our staff for delivering on our commitments to investors in 2007.
We have been working closely with many Our charitable support of Tlcoms Sans first responder and emergency response Frontires TSF continued during 2007 Your Board believes we are well agencies as they determine how they and we have confirmed our support positioned to deliver another year of can use our systems, particularly our through 2008.
TSF provides first growth in 2008, and to build on the BGAN service, for communication and communication links from disaster zones investments we have now made to the information sharing among their for other aid and government agencies benefit of our customers, partners and communities.
Border patrols are also and victims.
2007 was a very busy year shareholders.
using BGAN to monitor major border with TSF sending response teams crossings in their ght against drug and to deal with crises in many different other trafcking activities.
countries including Bangladesh, Mexico, Peru and Nicaragua.
TSF also supports During the year, a new rugged BGAN ongoing work in various countries terminal with integrated encryption was working with Unicef, the United Nations designed and has started to be used Department of Safety and Security for both secure and non-secure military and the United Nations Development operations.
The features allow the Programme.
We are heartened that terminal to t into a standard military our services can be put to such effective rucksack but can also be used on a use to help those in times of need.
vehicle mounting for communicationson-the move COTM.
COTM via Outlook BGAN gives the exibility to turn any vehicle into a mobile command post, Your Board is very pleased with the quickly and discreetly.
Companys performance we again showed growth across all sectors in 2007.
Leasing Our BGAN service is now becoming accepted across an extended customer Revenues in 2007 from our leasing base, in new and existing markets and sector increased 9.8% to US$66.2m.
is being recognised as a world-class The improvement in these revenues is communications tool.
principally from new navigation contracts signed during the year and also from We believe that the successful, new a significant Swift 64 lease which was service launches during 2007, added signed in 2006, for which 2007 was the to our existing portfolio of services, first full year of revenue.
We are able will bring added market penetration to provide capacity leases for short-term and continued leadership by us in the requirements but have the exibility MSS sector for many years.
to offer extended terms if there is a compelling business opportunity.
Alongside managing a successful and ambitious business, we know we must Social Responsibility continually look at how we can improve our service and manage our business Inmarsat remains the only approved to keep innovation and development at provider of satellite communications the forefront of our thinking.
The launch services for the Global Mobile Distress of our third Inmarsat-4 satellite and and Safety System GMDSS.
This operation of our new ground network service is trusted throughout the world by are key elements of our forward mariners and by the rescue co-ordination planning.
Their reality will provide global centres which are integral to ensuring operations on the Inmarsat-4 satellites a response to the safety alert.
We are for our BGAN and satellite phone reminded on a regular basis how this services.
The opportunity to be the service ensures that those at sea can rely commercial partner for the Alphasat on Inmarsat in times of an emergency.
project similarly will give us more Inmarsat plc 09 Annual report and accounts 2007
