4 Chief Executive Officers statement CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT Both the Middle East and Asia are markets where IMPROVED EARNINGS, FREE CASH FLOW output is totally covered by long-term offtake AND SHARE PRICE contracts, and where our financial return is primarily dependent on high levels of plant availability.
Our track record is consistently strong here, and we had SIGNIFICANT EXPANSION OF OUR another very good year.
Earnings grew in the Middle East principally through a first full year contribution RENEWABLES BUSINESS from the Tihama project in Saudi Arabia, and we were pleased to announce in August 2007 the award of EXCEPTIONAL ACCESS TO GROWTH our latest project in the Middle East, Fujairah F2, a new-build 2,000 MW and 130 MIGD installation in OPPORTUNITIES IN TARGETED MARKETS the UAE.
We continue to be very active in targeting growth opportunities in this fast expanding region.
Performance at all our Asian plants was good, and we successfully divested our 18% stake in Malakoff in Malaysia in 2007, crystallising a significant Dear Shareholder 115 million profit.
We also acquired a further 9% economic interest in Paiton Indonesia from Mitsui.
2007 was a year of further growth, with significant improvement in earnings, free cash The Australian business faced a challenging year, flow and, very importantly, our share price.
principally due to the very severe drought.
The lack The key drivers were increased earnings in of water had the effect of reducing hydro output, and our European and North American markets.
restricting some thermal power generation where fresh Although this improvement was partially offset water was needed for cooling.
This, in turn, made by the impact of a very severe drought in pricing exceptionally volatile and adversely impacted us Australia, the strength of our global portfolio when we needed to cover contractual positions if our ensured that we made good overall progress.
plants were not available for operational reasons or when the transmission networks could not cope with Our position in five key international regions demand.
On the positive side, this volatility has resulted continues to provide both a very solid earnings in a significant improvement in forward prices, so the and cash flow profile for the Group, and outlook for the Australian business is much improved.
exceptional access to growth opportunities.
Let me give you a few of these regional Industry trends highlights for 2007.
The key trends in our industry continue to be security Portfolio performance of supply, the drive for lower carbon dioxide CO 2 emissions and environmental upgrades, and the In Europe, we benefited from much improved margins provision of affordable power in the face of rising at our UK plants, principally due to the well-timed prices for both new power generation equipment and contracting of our 2007 output, and through high for fuel.
These are major issues in all the markets in levels of operational performance.
We also standardised which we operate, and span the energy, economic and our shareholdings with Mitsui in our major UK plants, political agendas.
Power generation is by its nature a 75% International Power, 25% Mitsui and this large-scale and long-term industry, so the decisions we provides an efficient structure for the future.
Our make today have an impact many years into the future.
continental European portfolio also had a good year with consistently high availability at our long-term We believe that security of supply is best protected contracted plants.
Our Levanto wind farm, acquired by having a diversified and balanced power in November 2006, was successfully integrated and generation fleet in terms of both technology and delivered a full year contribution in 2007. fuel type.
This ensures no undue reliance on any one fuel or technology provider, and our global portfolio In the US, our markets in Texas and New England encompassing natural gas, coal, wind, pumped maintain their underlying recovery as the balance storage, hydro and oil addresses this point directly.
between installed capacity and peak demand continues We have excellent, in-depth skills across this wide to tighten.
However, because it was a relatively cool summer in 2007 and air conditioning demand was range of technologies.
Security of supply also means that the regulatory structure in each market needs lower, underlying margins showed only a modest improvement over last year.
New England benefited to be transparent and consistent over the long-term without this, it is extremely difficult to make longfrom a full year of capacity income, and 2007 also saw a full year contribution from our coal fired Coleto term investment decisions, and we are therefore very strong supporters of free and open markets with Creek plant, where we successfully installed a major upgrade to its dust extraction equipment.
All our longa minimum of government intervention.
term contracted plants continued to perform well.
International Power Annual Report 2007 5 The environmental debate in the power sector is Our strategy remains to deliver growth in shareholder often centred on CO reductions, but in reality is much value through operating our existing portfolio to the 2 wider and includes the reduction of sulphur and other highest standards, and by growing in our targeted emissions.
We are addressing all of these issues.
We are well positioned financially, with strong CO, some 57% of our portfolio is modern, efficient free cash flow and liquidity, and good access to the 2 gas fired generation, and we are implementing efficiency non-recourse project finance market, which remains improvements at our coal fired plants in the UK and relatively resilient through the recent tightening of Australia to reduce their CO intensity.
In Australia the global credit markets.
We have an excellent highly 2 we are also working with both the state and federal skilled team and I would like to thank all our employees governments to see how brown coal can be dried worldwide for their enthusiasm, commitment and prior to burning, which could provide a very significant professionalism.
Our business is in good shape, we reduction in CO output, and we are working on a pilot have a strong platform for the future, and a range of 2 plant for CO capture.
These are early but important growth opportunities across the portfolio.
We will keep 2 steps, and we want to ensure we are at the forefront of our financial discipline to ensure we employ our capital these initiatives.
In the UK and Portugal, we are installing wisely, and we will remain agile to capture flue gas desulphurisation FGD equipment in 2008 to opportunities in our target markets.
reduce sulphur emissions at our coal fired plants.
In the US we installed an improved dust extraction system that also allows improved mercury capture.
2007 was also a very significant year for the expansion of our renewables business.
We acquired 660 MW of Philip Cox operating wind farms, including the Maestrale wind Chief Executive Officer farm portfolio, based principally in Italy.
The Maestrale portfolio is now run alongside the Levanto wind farm portfolio, which we acquired towards the end of 2006 and is based principally in Germany.
Our strategy is to work with wind farm developers to source further growth opportunities where we can add value, and we now have some 1,199 MW of operational wind farms with a further 6 MW under construction.
Outlook for growth Growth in demand for power in all our markets both the developed and the developing world is clearly good for the outlook of our business, but, of course, new power generation has to be affordable for the local market.
This is a major challenge as the global market is now experiencing very significant cost escalation in both power generation equipment and in fuel costs, all driven by high worldwide demand.
We are very experienced power developers with a good track record and strong relationships with the major equipment manufacturers, and therefore we can continue to deliver good value as demonstrated by our latest project award in the Middle East for a large power and desalination plant.
