Chief Executive Officers Review Our strategy for success Introduction We grew the breadth of our emissions Our financial results speak for themselves service offerings to engine, lubricant and we have enjoyed a very successful year, with additive manufacturer and automotive record revenue growth.
This outstanding industries substantially, by acquiring performance was due to our clear and Carnot Emission Services, a company based effective growth strategy, favourable in San Antonio, Texas, US.
Carnot provides conditions in some of our markets and the emissions testing services to small engine dedication and expertise of our people.
In and industrial equipment manufacturers and the paragraphs below, I describe how our certifies engines to the latest recently strategy works in practice.
enacted Environmental Protection Agency EPA off-road regulations.
These services Add value to our clients business expand and complement the heavy diesel and products on-highway and off-road emission services Our mission is to support our clients in their we provide at our neighbouring Intertek global and local trade by adding value to Automotive Research facility.
But what does this really mean?
As our clients buy, sell or Acquisitions bring new clients into the receive products around the world, we help Group who can benefit from our services on them to achieve the quality, safety, social and a global scale and also allow us to provide Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Officer environmental standards that they need for new services to our existing customers.
trading these products successfully and By listening to and foreseeing our clients within critical time frames.
Manufacturers, future needs we are growing our business.
retailers and traders operate in an increasingly competitive global marketplace.
Get closer to customers organise We act in partnership with them to help ourselves to their industry lines them to succeed.
By doing this we create In response to the growth opportunities in value for our shareholders.
new sectors and to increase the focus on customers in their specific industries, we Combine and increase services to meet have changed the organisational structure clients future needs from four divisions to seven: Consumer We constantly review the services that we Goods: Commercial & Electrical: Analytical offer our clients and identify where their Services: Minerals: Oil, Chemical & Agri: future needs are developing.
By being in Industrial Services: and Government regular and close contact with them, we Services.
This will enable the leaders of each listen, anticipate and then plan the key areas division to focus on the needs of their in which to expand our services and customers and pursue a growth strategy resources to best support their changing more directly focused on the industries that needs.
For example, we have long provided they serve and thereby continue to diversify clients with electromagnetic compatibility, the revenue streams into different industries.
safety certification and performance testing for mobile devices.
By acquiring Product To support these seven divisions, our Quality Partners and National Software Intertek as One initiative launched two Technology Laboratories in the United years ago, will ensure there is crossStates, we now offer a full suite of hardware divisional integration and co-operation.
testing, including advanced testing It has led to more service offerings and applications and software compatibility added value for our customers and at the services which are becoming increasingly same time allowed us to pursue opportunities sought after in many markets.
This is exactly for sharing of resources.
the support that our clients now require from us, as their products and the environment in which they operate, evolve.
8 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 1 Our Strategy Add value Combine and increase services Customer focus 2 To be the service provider of choice in our industry sectors Drive outsourcing 1 Hong Kong 2 Houston Our global brand of one Intertek, with Our strategy of growing Intertek in our core Our business is underpinned by global trade thirteen main industry groupings, ensures industry sectors means that we can focus but more importantly depends on product our customers can rapidly identify themselves our acquisition strategy, building a complete variety, increasing demands for quality and with us and helps us to offer a full range of portfolio of services which maximises the safety and the growing volume of regulations services to each industry.
The main industries value we can add to our customers.
concerning the environment and quality and we reach are shown on page 2 and we safety issues.
I am confident that our proven expect this to expand in the future through Drive the outsourcing trend in our core strategy and the dedication of our people will greenfield and acquisition growth.
industries continue to drive strong demand for our We developed the laboratory outsourcing services, providing added value for our To be a leader in our core service strategy initially in the oil sector over eight customers and increased value creation for industries years ago, but have now extended our reach our shareholders.
Our strategy is to concentrate on industry to the chemical, pharmaceutical, personal care, sectors which provide us with an automotive and minerals industries.
Major opportunity to service customers globally.
outsourcing contracts won in 2007 include: We have developed a list of industries that meet our criteria.
In many of these, we are ICI outsourced its Measurement Science already a leading provider and maintain a Group in the UK: strong reputation.
Where we are not, we Kodak outsourced the analytical services of Wolfhart Hauser aim to gain sufficient market share to its Eastman Gelatine Corporation in the US: Chief Executive Officer become the first or second service provider.
FMG outsourced its minerals sample preparation to Intertek Robotics in Australia: For example, the global demand for minerals Limburg Water Board outsourced its water is accelerating due to rapid industrialisation and environmental laboratory activities in and increasing development in emerging the Netherlands.
This growth leads to increased demand for testing services at the point of Our outstanding track record is attracting more extraction and inspection at the point of opportunity and has established Intertek as the shipment.
We lacked market presence in market leader in laboratory outsourcing in the Australia, which is a key location for the oil and chemical sectors.
mining industry, so we acquired two companies: Genalysis which provides testing Many companies still run their quality and and analytical services to the mining industry safety services in-house.
These are often in Western and Southern Australia and non-core activities within a large, complex Africa: and Northern Territories organisation.
We take the time to understand Environmental Laboratories which covers these companies quality requirements and Northern Australia.
These companies have offer outsourced solutions to maximise value given us a strong presence in the Australian to our customers, including the resources and minerals sector and helped us to win a skills available from our global network of significant seven-year contract with 1,000 laboratories and offices.
We expect Fortescue Metals Group FMG to provide more outsourcing of these services across a analytical testing of mine samples to a major variety of industries, especially if the business mining company.
These two acquisitions environment for our customers becomes more complement our existing minerals operations challenging, as there may be increased in Asia and the Americas and give us the pressure to optimise value from scarcer market penetration to pursue other resources, presenting a strong growth opportunities in the minerals testing market.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 9
