Ulf Henriksson Chief Executive Having joined as Chief Operating Officer in May 2004, Ulf was then appointed Chief Executive in July 2005.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT In my second report to you as Chief Executive of Invensys, I am The successful completion of the pleased to report that the turnaround at Invensys is continuing and 2006 Refinancing has significantly that we are making good progress in transforming Invensys into a high performing, sustainable and cohesive business.
The successful strengthened our financial position completion of the 2006 Refinancing has significantly strengthened and increased our freedom to resolve our financial position and increased our freedom to resolve our operational issues.
Looking across our businesses Process Systems The very good results from Process Systems reflect the continuing high levels of spend within our core global markets of oil and gas, petrochemicals and power generation.
The improved technical offering, strengthened in the year by the launch of the groundbreaking InFusion enterprise control system, and our large installed base has enabled us to again become a leading player in the process automation market.
Eurotherm The restructuring at Eurotherm is aimed at capturing the growth in Eastern Europe and Asia, targeting four vertical markets with engineered solutions and at reducing our cost base by outsourcing component manufacture and relocating assembly to Poland and China.
Although the pace of this restructuring has been slower than anticipated, it is not expected to materially affect the final outcome of the programme.
APV The much improved performance by APV during the year demonstrates the tremendous efforts of its new management team in creating a turnaround.
We have improved the profitability of our project business by improving execution and rejecting contracts which are low margin or have high execution risk.
At the same time we have been addressing our large installed base and have increased revenue significantly from products, spares and services sales.
This rebalancing of the business has created a much more stable platform going forward.
Rail Group Rail Group continues to perform well in its core markets in the UK, Iberia and the US where significant, stable infrastructure spending provides a solid earnings base.
We have also been successful in 14 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 Chief Executives statement These results demonstrate the progress that we have made and the Board believes that we are now at a stage where we can begin to take Invensys on to the next phase of our journey.
gaining business in export markets, particularly in Asia Pacific.
Going creating greater efficiency within our support functions under forward, our priority is to expand our geographical footprint and we leadership and guidance from the corporate centre.
Our first are currently investing in the exploration of opportunities in several project is within our finance function through co-sourcing with new jurisdictions including Latin America, North Africa, the new a third party provider: and member states of the European Union, India and other regions improving our capital structure, with the objective of removing of Asia Pacific.
our remaining limitations so that we can improve our ability to achieve our growth potential.
Controls Controls has made good progress in addressing the many market Corporate social responsibility CSR and operational issues that have affected its performance in recent As a member of the FTSE4Good Index, we remain committed to years.
We have improved the quality of our management information ensuring that our people act in an ethical and proper manner, that which has enabled us to better assess the performance of each we safeguard the welfare of our employees, customers, suppliers and product group and to facilitate the identification of remedial actions.
others by having an effective health and safety culture, that we make Controls has improved product quality and on-time delivery to a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate and levels that have enabled us to have a normal conversation with our that we reduce to a minimum the environmental consequences of customers.
We have exited some product lines that have become our activities.
In each of these areas, we have made good progress commoditised but we have gained in areas where we can show that during the year and the CSR report contained in this document our engineering skills benefit the customer.
For example, we have provides both qualitative and, particularly in the case of health, been able to implement pricing actions that are now recouping safety and the environment, detailed quantitative descriptions of some of the margin lost through the significant raw material price our achievements.
increases over the last three years.
Employees Strategy for the future In an engineering Group like Invensys, the most important asset that Our priorities during the past three years have been about stopping we have is our people.
During the past year, I have been struck by our decline and starting to build a foundation for growth.
Our the immense enthusiasm and commitment shown by everyone primary focus has been upon the operational and cash performance to the recent achievements of Invensys and the opportunities for of our businesses and improving our capital structure and therefore personal progression available within the Group.
Our improved reducing the limitations the old structure placed upon our actions performance is allowing us to increase our investment in people, and value.
These results demonstrate the progress that we have particularly in learning and development, to ensure that we support made and the Board believes that we are now at a stage where them to achieve their own aspirations as well as enabling them to we can begin to take Invensys on to the next phase of our journey.
increase their own contributions to the Groups success.
This phase of our journey towards becoming a high performing, sustainable and cohesive business consists of four separate strategic initiatives: increasing our investments in each of our businesses to deliver more value-added innovative engineering solutions and services with the objective of giving our customers greater efficiency and success: leveraging our capabilities for greater value.
Where natural and Ulf Henriksson appropriate, we will share technology and market capabilities Chief Executive across businesses: Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 15
