Chief Executives review Building an army of the best engineers, project managers and consultants in the world: we aspire to excellence in everything we do.
R ecord results and cash position Samir Brikho Chief Executive 44 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 55 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 4 2 4 08 10:28:07 Chief Executives review 2007 was a year in which AMEC achieved outstanding success, both So what does this mean to the way in which we run our business?
in terms of transforming the business and in delivering record results.
We want to be the supplier of choice to our selected customers and the customer of choice to our selected suppliers.
AMECs end markets Strong growth in both the Natural Resources and Power and Process were strong in 2007 and we expect them to remain so in 2008.
Our divisions drove underlying growth of 21 per cent in revenues, this being customers are increasing their capital expenditure plans and continue almost entirely organic.
Adjusted pre-tax profit was up 59 per cent at to look to AMEC to support them in achieving their growth.
Operational a record level of 126.5 million, with our year-end net cash position Excellence is helping us choose the markets in which we should standing at 733 million, also a record.
By any measure, these are operate, the customers we should be working with and the projects outstanding results.
on which we can add the greatest value.
We are also reviewing our processes and procedures, ensuring they are efficient and effective After a year in which we delivered on and exceeded the promises we in support of our goals.
made in late 2006, AMEC is now a company with a clear vision, a common sense of direction and a culture of performance and delivery.
We want to attract, retain and develop the best people in the business.
AMEC employees understand what we need to do to achieve our We continue to work with schools and universities to develop the next performance improvement targets and create a truly world class generation of world class engineers and also look more widely into our company.
We are united in our desire to achieve our goals.
local communities to attract the best employees.
Through Operational Excellence, we are looking at new ways to train and develop our AMECs people are our most important employees, providing them with the skills and experience they need asset.
It is the skills of our people that A year of outstanding to do their job and advance their careers.
Providing a healthy and safe our customers value: in particular, our working environment for our employees is of paramount importance ability to deliver complex projects safely, s uccess to AMEC, just as the safe delivery of projects is important to our on time, and on budget.
Despite achieving an improvement in lost time injuries create the best army of engineers in during 2007, tragically, an AMEC employee was killed following a fall the world: the best army of project from height.
No accident is acceptable to us and we will continue to managers and the best army of consultants.
We need to make sure they strive for excellence in safety.
are provided with the skills and tools they need to deliver outstanding performance.
We want AMEC to set the standards against which We want to create a business which is sustainable for the long term.
performance is measured in our industry.
That is what our Operational In 2007, we took the first crucial steps in transforming AMEC into a Excellence programme is all about.
I have been humbled by what AMEC employees achieved, setting stretching goals and exceeding them.
Going forward, Operational Excellence was launched in September 2007 and is a we are aspiring to excellence in everything we do, seeking to raise the two to three year programme which will be a major contributor to the bar of best in class performance in our industry and ensure a safe, achievement of our eight per cent EBITA margin target in 2010.
Taking successful and sustainable future for AMEC.
a good company and turning it into a great company is about much more than merely short-term profit improvement.
We want to operate to the 11 March 2008 highest standards in every area of our business and for continuous improvement to become a way of life for everyone at AMEC.
Continuing revenues excluding oil and gas lump-sum contracting now ceased, and the Investments and other activities division where various businesses were sold or closed during 2007.
44 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 55 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 5 2 4 08 10:28:08 Left to right: Nick Walters, Maintenance Manager, AMEC: Daren Smith, UK Maintenance Services Manager, SABIC AMEC plc annual report 2007 7 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 6 2 4 08 10:28:20 AMEC has a three year contract with SABIC Saudi Basic Industries Corporation for the maintenance of three major chemical process plants on Teesside, north east England.
The contract commenced on January 2007.
AMECs fi first year of operations has been an overwhelming success, with continued safety performance improvement and minimal disruption to ongoing maintenance service delivery.
A very promising start to what I trust will be a long and mutually benefi cial relationship.
Daren Smith, UK Maintenance Services Manager, SABIC AMEC plc annual report 2007 7 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
