Chairmans statement ITE has enjoyed five years of continuous growth in revenues and profits Group performance Board and management ITE has announced an excellent set of results for the year As previously announced, Ian Tomkins, Chief Executive Officer ended 30 September 2007.
Reported revenues improved in for the last five years, stepped down from the Board on our stronger biennial year by 20% to 99.1 million and headline 3 September to return to Australia with his family.
He left the profit before tax improved by 35% to 35.3 million 2006: Company with a solid foundation and the Group will reap the 26.0 million.
Fully diluted headline earnings per share for the benefits of his stewardship.
We have been fortunate to recruit year was 9.4p 2006: 7.0p.
Reported profits before tax were Bill Dye, who succeeds Ian as Chief Executive Officer.
Bills 33.7 million 2006: 24.8 million and fully diluted earnings experience encompasses entrepreneurial business building and per share improved by over 30% to 9.0p 2006: 6.7p.
corporate management skills of a FTSE 100 company.
Bill brings a new dimension to the Company and the Board looks forward Strategic progress to the next stage of ITEs development under his direction.
The Groups primary strategy over the last five years has been to maximise the organic growth opportunities that the Group has Sir Jeremy Hanley joined the Board of ITE as a non-executive on earned through strong market positions in the emerging and 12 March 1998 when the Group first listed on the London Stock developing markets of Russia and Central Asia.
After nearly ten years of loyal service and hard work achieving this aim has come from the single mindedness with Sir Jeremy will, under corporate governance guidelines, be which we have focused on this objective.
As a result ITE has stepping down from the Board after the Companys next Annual enjoyed five years of continuous growth in revenues and profits General Meeting in March.
All the Board extend their thanks and, reflecting this success, ITE became a constituent company to Sir Jeremy for his support and guidance over the years.
of the FTSE 250 index in June this year.
The search for a new non-executive Director is under way.
Highlights of the year included MosBuild, the Groups marketDividend leading construction event in Moscow, which this year was the The Board is recommending to shareholders a final dividend of largest commercial exhibition held in Russia and is today one of 3.2 pence per share 2006: 2.5 pence, making a total dividend the worlds leading events of its kind.
The Moscow International for the year of 4.5 pence per share 2006: 3.5 pence.
The total Oil and Gas event and the Kazakhstan International Oil and Gas dividend for the year represents an increase of more than 28% conference also demonstrated their credentials as world class over last years dividend, which reflects both the strong cash events for the international community.
Also important this year dynamics of the business and the Boards confidence in its was the signing of an agreement extending our venue rights in opportunities looking forward.
This agreement confirms ITEs position in the Kazakhstan exhibition business at a time Outlook of economic health and expansion for the region.
The markets in which we operate continue to expand and the domestic economies of the countries in which we trade are The dedication and loyalty of our hard working staff together still growing strongly.
With ITEs strong brands and expanding with the support of our venue partners have been important international infrastructure, I look forward to another year of contributors to the overall success of the Group.
Looking growth for the ITE Group.
forward, I see another year of growth based upon these relationships and infrastructures we have assiduously built over the last five years.
The balance sheet is strong and the Group is well positioned to take advantage of any new opportunities that arise in the year.
Iain Paterson Chairman 3 December 2007 ITE Group plc 10 Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives statement ITE has very strong market positions in geographies enjoying good economic growth Results for 2007 financial year Established market leading positions Turnover for the year was 99.1 million, an increase of 20% over ITE has been organising exhibitions in these territories for over last year 2006: 82.4 million.
Growth from our higher margin 15 years.
The Group has extensive knowledge and experience products, selective price increases and good cost control all of the exhibitions, the exhibitors, the venues and the regions in helped to lift gross margins to 50% in the year 2006: 46.7%.
which ITE runs its business.
Organic revenue growth was 15%, earned through running 148 events around the world and selling over 450,000 metres Local presence of exhibition space through our 19 offices.
The Groups offices are locally staffed and are accepted and acknowledged as part of the local Russian CIS exhibition Headline profit before tax of 35.3 million was 35% ahead of market.
ITEs staff have for the most part grown up with the last years 26.0 million comparable result.
Many of them have worked together on the same includes a net 3.8 million biennial contribution, largely from shows for many years.
Some of them have worked in different the Moscow Oil and Gas event and high organic growth across offices at different times.
Overall this has created a unique the rest of the portfolio.
On a like-for-like basis gross profit was family culture among the staff of ITE that is unusual in such 21% higher than last year, operating profit was 20% higher than a geographically diverse business.
last year and headline profit was 21% higher than last year.
Overall this represents an excellent financial and trading result Venue relationships for the year.
ITE has been working in partnership with its venues since the beginning of its business.
ITE has provided financial support to Cash generated from the business in the year before tax was build and extend venues and is now a significant customer 43.1 million representing more than 120% of headline profit to each of its main venues.
After accounting for tax, the business generated 33.0 million of free cash flow, of which a total 27.1 million These assets make ITE a unique business in the exhibition was returned to shareholders through share buybacks and industry.
Allied to this are the strengths of the exhibition dividends.
The strong cash flow resulted in the Groups cash business model.
The business is strongly cash generative balances rising from 21.2 million at the beginning of the year and has excellent sales visibility forward.
The position of ITE to 26.7 million at the end of the year.
ITEs strong balance together with the nature of large established brands create sheet puts it in a good position to take advantage of current barriers to entry for any potential competitors.
The Groups principal objectives have been the creation of Strategy sustainable growth in headline earnings per share and the ITE has very strong market positions in geographies enjoying creation of leading positions in each of its markets.
The strategy good economic growth and in which the media and marketing to deliver these targets was to: businesses are underrepresented.
My initial impressions of ITE are that it also has unique assets which have enabled it to Increase revenues from existing offices, both through participate so well in the growth that these economic and expansion of existing exhibitions and through the launch structural conditions have generated in recent years.
Increase volume sales and maintain the rate achieved per International sales reach unit yield by office.
ITE has a culture throughout, such that each office sells ITE Make incremental bolt on acquisitions in support of our events to its domestic customer base.
In addition to the objectives.
international sales offices in Germany and the UK, the domestic Secure forward venue rights for significant exhibitions.
ITE offices generate significant cross border sales within Russia, Central Asia and South Eastern Europe.
No other organiser in Russia and CIS is able to replace this sales reach.
ITE Group plc 11 Annual Report 2007
