Chief Executives statement 2007 marked a year of significant strategic and operational progress for JKX This years achievements have served to Average realisations for oil in the period underline the specialist knowledge, focus rose by 11 per cent to $60.37 per barrel and expertise that JKX has successfully $54.31 per barrel.
All oil was sold into acquired during its years of activity in its the domestic market at a price which core region.
The Company has increased tracks international prices but at an production from its core Ukrainian effective discount.
production licences, acquired a second Average realisations for gas in the period operational hub in southern Russia, and rose by 40 per cent to $3.95 per Mcf broadened its exploration portfolio in $2.83 per Mcf, with all gas being sold eastern central Europe and Turkey.
The into the domestic market.
Gas Russian acquisition resulted in 36.5 realisations have again increased from million barrels of oil equivalent of proven the beginning of 2008 to in excess of plus probable reserves being added to $5.00 per Mcf, as a result of the year-end the Group reserves, representing negotiations between Russia and approximately 50 per cent of the Group Dr Paul Davies Ukraine.
We believe that gas prices could reserves as at 31 December 2007.
Chief Executive rise again during 2008, with a further increase anticipated at the beginning Ukraine of 2009.
PPC continued to sell The Companys wholly-owned subsidiary, approximately 60 per cent of its gas Poltava Petroleum Company PPC, production to Shell throughout the period.
continues as the largest domestic nonstate producer of oil and gas, supplying The ongoing drilling programme on approximately 3 per cent of Ukraines oil our Poltava fields comprised both and gas production during the period.
development and appraisal in and around Average daily oil production increased by our four production licences throughout 13 per cent to 5,539 bopd 4,889 bopd.
Most encouragingly, Average daily gas production rose by 50 per cent of our new wells in the period 13 per cent to 42.3 MMcfd 37.5 MMcfd, targeted new productive structures to the the maximum level possible under the west and east of the Ignatovskoye and limitations of the current gas export Molchanovskoye fields respectively.
capacity from our Poltava fields.
10 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Ignatovskoye Field underlying Tournasian and Devonian point control plant and the additional During the period, three new deviated reservoirs.
Delays have been development wells I127, I128, and I129 experienced with the delivery of the Rudenkovskoye Field were drilled and successfully brought bespoke metering skid, due in part to The second new Well R102 was drilled on-stream.
In addition, two new vertical the extended approval cycle of its final in the southern area of the field and appraisal wells I130, I131 were drilled specification by the regulatory authorities successfully tied back to the central as part of the programme of evaluation and the lead times being experienced for production facilities in the second of the extent of the Tournasian carbonate sophisticated oilfield control equipment.
An extensive data extension to the north of the Delivery of the metering skid is currently set from the logging and coring Molchanovskoye Field: both of these scheduled for the second quarter of the programme was gathered and is being wells are awaiting acid stimulation.
year, with tie-in and commissioning due used in the ongoing evaluation of well A third deviated appraisal well I133 for completion in the third quarter.
stimulation techniques to be utilised for was completed shortly after the end Delivery of gas via the Soyuz tie-in will the full field development.
In the third of the period and brought on-stream.
remove any capacity constraint to gas quarter of the period, an initial hydraulic production from our Poltava licences.
Molchanovskoye Field fracture stimulation test was undertaken During the period, two new vertical on one of the gas-bearing sandstone The Company is committed to developing development wells M157, M158 and one intervals of Well R101, the first new well and expanding its exploration and new vertical development well M205 drilled in the northern part of the field appraisal licence portfolio in Ukraine.
were drilled and or completed in the in 2005.
Although the results were Zaplavskoye northern and southern areas of the field inconclusive, extended pressure tests The first exploration Well Z1 on the respectively and successfully brought onon the well are feeding into the ongoing 95.7sq.
In addition, two vertical and one fracture studies.
We intend to apply a licence was drilled in 2006 and deviated appraisal wells M160, M161 range of fracturing techniques to all reprocessing and reinterpretation of the and M162 confirmed production in the three of the Rudenkovskoye wells R12, 92km of 2D seismic data, incorporating Tournasian carbonate extension in an R101 and R102 during the third quarter the well data, showed the well was additional fault block to the north of of this year.
An additional two the Molchanovskoye field and were Production facilities at Poltava have lines totalling 16km of 2D seismic were successfully brought on-stream.
been upgraded and expanded during the shot in the first quarter of the period, Novo-Nikolaevskoye Field period: major items include a new low and the processed data has been No additional drilling or workover activity pressure manifold, a new inlet separator assimilated into the data set to was undertaken on the field during the and upgraded flare controls.
Delivery determine the location for the second period, although negotiations continue of additional facilities and construction exploration well which is planned to spud with the state oil and gas company on associated with the tie-in to the 56-inch in the second quarter of 2008.
In addition, acquiring a shut-in well drilled in the Soyuz pipeline has been ongoing a second lead, has been identified in the 1980s on our licence area.
The main throughout the reporting period western part of the exploration licence focus of activity in 2008 will be more including: execution of the hot tap into and, depending on further seismic detailed examination of the Visean the Soyuz line: construction of the spur reprocessing and evaluation, could lead sandstone channel sands along with line to the PPC facilities: and delivery and to an exploration well later this year.
a study of the potential in both the installation of both the additional dew MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE USING KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Production volumes Capital expenditure Production costs 13% 241% 5% 2007: 12,579 boepd 2007: $147.9m 2007: $4.01 boe 2006: 11,146 boepd 2006: $43.4m 2006: $3.83 boe Ukrainian gas Return on average Reserves movement realisations capital employed - 40% 30% 72% 2007: $3.95 Mcf 2007: 29.5% 2007: 31.9 MMboe 2006: $2.83 Mcf 2006: 42.4% 2006: -4.1 MMboe SEE THE FINANCIAL REVIEW PAGES 30 AND 31 FOR MORE DETAILS Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 11 Elizavetovskoye workovers of shut-in wells: specification as a dry hole.
Evaluation of the licences The Company continues to seek an and sourcing of replacement gas continues with exploration now focusing agreement with the state oil and gas treatment facilities: and implementation on gas-bearing structures in the coastal company to acquire the existing of a corporate development plan for our Tertiary Basin and the definition of infrastructure in order to re-commence wholly-owned Russian subsidiary, prospects north west of the Well R1 production.
No exploration work will be Yuzhgazenergie YGE.
Additional 3D seismic undertaken on the 70sq.
km licence until Russian staff to grow from 20 personnel acquisition is scheduled for the third such an agreement has been achieved.
today to approximately 90 personnel by quarter of 2008 to supplement the the end of the year.
YGE remains on existing 2D seismic data over the Tertiary Chervonoyarske East schedule to return the field to production Basin area.
The Company was awarded this in 2008.
km licence in 2006, following the Turkey first open auction of licences in Ukraine.
Georgia The Company is participating in the three The Company purchased and interpreted Anadarko is the operator of the Karakilise onshore exploration licences, 110km of 2D seismic and data from the consortium holding the 8,900sq.
km in southsix wells drilled on the licence to date, exploration licence, offshore Georgia eastern Turkey JKX: 30 per cent.
During and has shot and processed 12km of JKX: 4 per cent net profit interest.
the period, 60km of 2D seismic was additional 2D seismic during the period.
Following extensive seismic and acquired and processed over two leads The Company is currently acquiring geological data acquisition, a preferred in the southern part of the licence area.
km of 3D seismic data to aid location for the first exploration well has An exploration well on one of the identification of prospects for possible been identified.
This commitment well prospects is scheduled for the second drilling in 2009. is dependent on Anadarko attracting quarter of 2008. additional farm-in partners, following Russia The Company participated in three the recent withdrawal of BP and Chevron In the fourth quarter of the period, the onshore exploration licences in Thrace from the consortium, and securing a Company completed its $50m acquisition JKX: 25 per cent comprising an area suitable drilling rig.
We remain of the Koshekhablskoye Gas Field, of 980 sq km.
During the period, an committed to this frontier project but, located in the southern Russian republic additional 110km of 2D seismic was recognising the passage of time, we have of Adygea.
The Company has added acquired over a lead previously identified decided to make a full provision for all approximately 36 million boe to its by the Operator.
Following processing our capitalised costs relating to the booked 2P reserves, based on the and interpretation, the Company project to date.
estimates of the independent concluded that the prospect has limited consultants, Miller and Lents.
Since potential and decided to relinquish its Bulgaria acquisition, the Company has been interest in the licences.
The Company operates the onshore undertaking the necessary work required exploration permits, B Golitza and B1 The Company announced on to bring the Field back on-stream.
Major Golitza JKX: 50 per cent covering a total 10 January 2008 that it had farmed into activities completed to date include: of 3,499sq.
During the reporting two exploration licences comprising initiation of a 105sq.
km seismic period, Well R1 was drilled to a depth 590sq.
km in the South East Bismil area programme: specification and award of of 4,522m on the B Golitza permit and of South East Turkey JKX: 20 per cent.
required field refurbishment contracts: subsequently plugged and abandoned The licences are situated immediately award of the rig contract for up to 10 This years achievements have served to underline the specialist knowledge, focus and expertise that JKX has successfully acquired during its years of activity in its core region 12 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 south of the largest oilfield in Turkey, Bati at the end of the reporting period that enhance further the productivity we enjoy Raman.
Currently, an additional 120km Newfield Exploration has acquired the at our core production hub.
of 2D seismic is being acquired over the interests of the previous operator, The recommencement of gas production licences and drilling has commenced on Rosetta Energy, and is considering an at our recently acquired Russian Well Koyunlu 2, an appraisal to the oil exploration well through the James Lime Koshekhablskoye Field will establish a discovery Well Koyunlu 1 drilled in 2006. the primary target in the Unit to the second production hub for the Company underlying Travis Peak and Pettet and is a key milestone for 2008.
The Company has for some replacement and well workovers are the The Company announced at the end of time indicated its preference for a vertical major field activities throughout the year, the reporting period that it had farmed well to be drilled to test all three with a new deeper well to appraise the into two exploration licences, Hernd I formations.
The Company is evaluating underlying productive horizon scheduled and Hernd II, covering a total of the merits of the new operators for the turn of the year.
km in the north Pannonian Basin proposals before moving forward with gas realisations in Russia will follow the JKX: 50 per cent.
trend set in Ukraine with gas prices seismic acquisition programme has increasing annually at a rate of 15 per recently been completed over the Outlook cent to 25 per cent until a European licences, and is currently being The Company is embarking on its busiest netback price is reached in 2011-2012. processed and interpreted to identify year to date with significant development Most encouragingly, we are continuing the first drilling prospect for spudding drilling programmes scheduled for to receive expressions of interest from in the third quarter of this year.
Ukraine and Russia plus exploration additional industrial gas users in the programmes in Ukraine, Hungary, region to purchase our forthcoming Italy Bulgaria and Turkey.
In line with our stated strategy of The continuing development of our four disposing of non-core assets the Acquisition of additional development Poltava production licences will include Company agreed the sale of its Italian assets to increase our reserve base further appraisal and exploitation of the portfolio of exploration assets, including remains our priority with Ukraine and encouraging Tournasian Carbonate field the Aglavizza gas discovery, to Russia being the two main areas of extensions we are delineating over our Mediterranean Oil & Gas plc on evaluation.
Exploration activity is licence areas.
We expect gas production 22 February 2008.
The agreed increasing in the current period as we to increase in the second half of the year consideration of two million euros broaden our portfolio, and I am hopeful with unrestricted gas delivery via the was received at contract completion that we will be able to add further farmSoyuz trunkline.
The fracturing on 27 February 2008. ins in eastern central Europe during the programme scheduled for the third coming months.
quarter on our deep Rudenkovskoye USA Field is targeted at identifying a well The focus and commitment of the staff The Company has been investigating stimulation technique which can facilitate of the Company remain the key factor in options for disposing of its interest in the a full and cost-effective development of achieving our goals and delivering value 11,290-acre West Huxley Deep Unit the field.
I am also hopeful that the wells to our shareholders, and I am confident project in east Texas JKX: 34.3 per cent, planned in the second half of the year on that this will continue through 2008. its only remaining asset in the USA.
our Zaplavskoye exploration licence will However, the Company was informed The Company is embarking on its busiest year to date with significant development drilling programmes scheduled for Ukraine and Russia plus exploration programmes in Ukraine, Hungary, Bulgaria and Turkey Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 13
