CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Neil Carson Chief Executive Johnson Matthey achieved good results in 2006 07.
Sales plants in South Africa and Japan and we are building new excluding the value of precious metals were 25% up at factories in South Korea and Russia.
In Process Catalysts and 1.45 billion.
Profit before tax and one-off items, including the Technologies PCT we have invested in additional results of discontinued operations, was up 10% at 242.6 million manufacturing capacity for the Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and and earnings per share on the same basis were 12% ahead at Gas AMOG business.
Despite this high level of investment in capex and in R&D Catalysts Division performed well with strong growth in we continue to make progress towards our pre-tax target of a both its Environmental Catalysts and Technologies and Process 20% return on assets ROA.
This year we improved our group Catalysts and Technologies businesses.
Precious Metal Products ROA to 17.4% and expect to maintain or improve the groups Division had an excellent year benefiting from buoyant market return over the next few years.
conditions and a strong contribution from its manufacturing Global concern about the environment and the need to businesses.
Pharmaceutical Materials Division returned to growth make the most efficient use of finite resources such as following its disappointing performance last year with a good hydrocarbons, from which we currently derive most of our recovery in its US operations.
energy, is providing our business with many exciting At the end of February we concluded the sale of our opportunities for growth.
Our long term commitment to Ceramics Division.
The proceeds will be used to buy back investment in R&D and capital expenditure has ensured that shares and fund bolt-on acquisitions.
This sale completes the we are well positioned to help address these concerns.
process, which we announced in November 2003, of disposing Emission control legislation continues to tighten around the of parts of our former Colours & Coatings Division and world.
2006 07 saw the start of legislation in Europe and North focusing the group on our core activities.
America that is driving the new market for heavy duty diesel Our strategic intent is to deliver superior growth in earnings HDD catalysts.
In fact, in the second half of the year we made by capitalising on our world class technology in catalysts, precious sales excluding the value of precious metals of 46 million into metals, fine chemicals and process technology where our this brand new market.
HDD emission limits will tighten further expertise provides a competitive edge.
In order to achieve this in Europe, Japan and the United States in 2009 and 2010 and we continue to invest heavily in the future of our businesses.
these new standards will require more sophisticated catalyst In 2006 07 capital expenditure was 119.8 million which systems to meet them.
China, India, Brazil and South Korea all was 1.5 times depreciation.
Most of this investment was in have plans to introduce HDD emissions legislation by 2010.
This Catalysts Division with Environmental Catalysts and Technologies will add significantly to the market for HDD catalysts.
A further ECT spending 63.9 million on new manufacturing capacity.
new market will emerge from 2011 as the US and Europe During the year a new diesel catalyst production facility was phase in similar tough emission standards for off road diesel completed in the United States and construction of an vehicles.
We estimate that by 2014 15 the global market for additional catalysed soot filter CSF plant in Royston, UK is HDD catalysts will be worth approximately US$3 billion in well underway.
Additional capacity has been added at our sales, excluding the value of precious metals.
4 Johnson Matthey We are also continuing to benefit from technology leadership in light duty diesel catalysts where concerns about particulate emissions are resulting in the early fitment of catalysed soot filters ahead of the Euro 5 light duty diesel legislation which comes into full force in 2010.
Growth in our catalysts business is by no means limited to vehicle emission control.
High oil prices coupled with concerns about global warming have created further opportunities for our PCT business.
There is a growing consensus that the world needs to reduce carbon emissions through the more efficient use of energy and the introduction of alternative energy sources, thus starting a transition towards a lower carbon and ultimately a hydrogen economy.
Catalysts will play a crucial role in this transition.
Johnson Matthey is a world leader in catalysts for the generation of hydrogen and has a strong position in other technologies that are helping our customers to make the most efficient use of hydrocarbon resources and to begin this transition towards a lower carbon future.
The acquisition of Davy Process Technology DPT in February 2006 has been a great success, providing us not only with additional opportunities to grow our catalyst sales but also with good visibility of future developments Above: Heavy duty diesel catalyst manufacturing in chemical processes and alternative fuels.
Ultimately, when at our facility near Philadelphia, USA.
hydrogen is more widely used as a fuel we will benefit from our leadership in fuel cell technology.
From 1st April 2007 we have reorganised our divisional and it is our objective to achieve a zero accident rate.
The structure to give greater focus on our technologies concerned groups policies in this important area are set out in our CSR with protecting the environment.
We have created a new report on the companys website at www.
Environmental Technologies Division comprising the ECT Over the last year we have been examining how to make business, which has been renamed Emission Control our business more sustainable as a first step towards developing Technologies, the process technologies businesses within PCT a sustainability strategy for the group.
In doing this we have AMOG, DPT and Tracerco, which form a new Process been focusing on two key questions: Firstly, how can we be Technologies business, and Fuel Cells.
This new division brings more efficient in the way that we use resources in our together our core skills in catalysts and process technology and manufacturing operations and offices?
Secondly, how can we is well placed to serve current and emerging markets.
design products that are both better than those of our Increasingly CO will be viewed as a pollutant and we are 2 competitors and help our customers become more sustainable?
concentrating on how Johnson Matthey, and in particular our There is a real groundswell of support for sustainability new Environmental Technologies Division, will thrive in the initiatives amongst our staff and together we are working on future as governments legislate for lower carbon emissions in developing new strategies for the future.
response to the threat from climate change.
We have a number of excellent growth opportunities The remaining businesses within PCT, which serve the before us.
Our long term commitment to investing in R&D and speciality chemicals and pharmaceutical markets, have been capital expenditure, as well as in the skills of our excellent team merged with Pharmaceutical Materials to form a new Fine of people, means that we are well positioned to capitalise on Chemicals & Catalysts Division.
This combines the groups fine these opportunities.
The outlook for the group and particularly chemicals and related catalysts businesses and will enable us to for our new Environmental Technologies Division over the next take advantage of the marketing and technology synergies that few years is very encouraging.
A more detailed outlook exist between these businesses.
The structure of our Precious statement is included in our Operating and Financial Review Metal Products Division remains unchanged.
In recent years Johnson Matthey has made great progress in the field of corporate social responsibility CSR.
We pride ourselves on having a strong team ethos where every employee has a key role to play in the growth and success of our business.
We therefore place a great deal of emphasis on career development.
The excellent performance achieved in 2006 07 is the result of outstanding efforts from our workforce Neil Carson and management teams around the world.
Going forward we Chief Executive will increase our focus on developing people to ensure that we make the most of the opportunities ahead of us.
We also continue to work hard on improving our health and safety record.
While our accident rate continues to fall and is below industry averages we believe that any accident is unacceptable Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5
