Business review UK Service Operations Kelda uses its expertise in water and waste water services to develop long term, non-regulated income streams which add shareholder value.
UK Service Operations comprises Kelda Water KWS is a 50% shareholder in Brey Utilities, Innovation Services KWS, Loop and Safe-Move.
Operating which runs a 25 year contract with the Ministry Every time a toilet is flushed in Newport, profit increased to 10.7m 2006: 9.1m, mainly of Defence.
Delta Water Services, a wholly Wales, few realise theyre producing power, reflecting the continuing strong operating owned subsidiary of KWS, provides subprotecting the environment and making performances of existing businesses.
contracted operational and maintenance national history too!
services to over 80% of Breys sites.
Kelda Water Services KWS Wales has perfected a technique that KWS provides a clear focus for Keldas UK Dalriada Water Services, a joint venture, is allows treated water to be passed through non-regulated water and waste water contract currently progressing well on its building of a heat exchanger, almost in the same way operations businesses.
It has grown in the last five four water treatment works and associated as a fridge works, to warm up the offices years from nothing to a 123m turnover business infrastructure following the successful at Nash Waste Water Treatment Works.
and has established a proven track record of award of Project Alpha by Water Services winning contracts and delivering on its Northern Ireland.
The offices are no longer powered by commitments on service, operations and financial liquid petroleum gas, cutting carbon returns.
KWS continues to seek new growth Loop emissions by three quarters and annual opportunities in its area of operation.
Loop Customer Management Limited specialises in energy bills by 85%.
cost effective customer relationship management.
2006 07 saw KWS operating across the UK through The companys main contract is to provide KWS Wales plans to roll out the system, its subsidiaries and associate undertakings: customer service support to Yorkshire Water.
Over which was designed in conjunction with the last year Loop helped Yorkshire Water to achieve Sheffields ECO Heat Pumps, to other Aberdeen Environmental Services AES, which some of the best levels of customer service and the large treatment works.
is 45% owned by KWS, manages four waste best performance in revenue collection in the water water plants in Aberdeenshire under a 30 year industry.
Loop also made a significant contribution contract.
Grampian Waste Water Services, to the highly successful implementation of the new a wholly owned subsidiary of KWS, operates Yorkshire Water billing system.
Safe-Move A successful second full year has been Safe-Move is a non-regulated business which completed in the contract to provide waste provides search information to solicitors and water operations and maintenance services conveyancers, including information covering to Welsh Water Dwr Cymru, involving the drainage and water services.
operations of 570 waste water plants and over 13,000km of sewer network.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
