Business review Chief Executives review Kelda is leading the way for customer service efficiency and value in UK clean and waste water services.
It has been another successful year for the Kelda Striking the right balance in Yorkshire Group.
Our continuing strategy to focus on our Yorkshire Water had a strong year, improving its core UK water and waste water business has efficiency and overall service levels and gaining delivered further value for our shareholders and external recognition as Utility of the Year for with an improved service for our customers.
Group profit after tax from continuing operations Both operating and capital costs are better than has increased by 8.1% to 171.7m on turnover up target, despite high energy prices.
Basic earnings per share from was again named by Ofwat as the UKs most continuing operations have increased 12.4% efficient water and sewerage company, with four to 48.1p and it is proposed that our full year A ratings for efficiency.
As a result, Yorkshire dividend is increased 6.3% to 32.25p per share.
Water remains on target to out-perform the rest of the current price review.
Staying focused has led to another strong year for Yorkshire Water and we have again demonstrated Customers are central to the companys market leading operational and customer service philosophy and our aim is to provide a quality of performance.
In addition, KWS has continued to service which is significantly better than any other make good progress and the sale of our US UK utility.
In 2006 07 Yorkshire Water improved regulated water business Aquarion means Kelda is its score in Ofwats annual Overall Performance now entirely focused on its UK water and waste Assessment OPA for the ninth successive year.
All our energies are now directed at continuing to be clearly the best in the Ofwats report shows that the company continues UK at what we do.
to deliver an improved level of service, including a reduction in pollution incidents and 100% Yorkshire Water has continued to improve both waste water treatment works compliance.
We Kevin Whiteman its operational and customer service during have also achieved our best ever bathing beach Chief Executive, Kelda Group plc a challenging year for the UK water industry performance, with seven Blue Flags awarded to overall.
We are pleased with the progress which the regions beaches.
has been made through our continuing drive to run an efficient operation and to out-perform.
By applying new technology, Yorkshire Water also made dramatic reductions in customer Keldas approach is to strike the right balance by interruptions and street excavations.
For example, providing a satisfactory return for shareholders, an in 2006 07 the company achieved a 32% improved service for customers and environmental reduction in interruptions to supply.
Over recent years, this approach has delivered benefits for all and will continue as we approach the next price review in the UK.
Kelda Group plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 6.3% 878.9m Full year dividend increased 6.3% to 32.25p Group turnover from continuing operations up 6.5% to 878.9m 48.1p 7.2% Basic earnings per share from continuing Group operating profit from continuing operations up 12.4% to 48.1p operations up 7.2% to 338.2m The last year has also been an excellent one for The effect of our plans is to increase the Yorkshire We also want to improve our environmental delivering water supply security.
The company met Water net debt to approximately 60% of the performance and will go beyond compliance its leakage targets for the tenth consecutive year.
Regulatory Capital Value, which is in line with where we believe the benefits exceed the cost.
the 55-65% range assumed by Ofwat in the Over the last year Yorkshire Water has commited We expect a similar performance in 2007 and 2004 Final Determination.
to invest over 20m in renewable energy, will continue to set ourselves challenging targets including wind turbines, combined heat and around customer service, value and compliance Dividends in respect of the year ending 31 March, power and hydro generation.
to maintain the momentum which we have 2008 will be adjusted to take account of the developed over recent years.
For the current regulatory period We recognise that we also have an important role to 2010, we also plan to retain our policy of to play in society and over the last year we have UK clean and waste water focus growing dividends by 2% real, in line with improved recreational facilities at our key reservoir In selling our US water business Aquarion we will regulatory expectations.
sites, including new routes and paths for customers become a group focused on our UK water and and trails suitable for wheelchair access.
We also waste water businesses.
This structure will have the effect of bringing our remain committed to volunteering, with one in financial efficiency in line with our operational three of our people making a real difference in Over recent years our strategy has been to divest efficiency, and will continue to provide Kelda the community.
non-core activities and many other companies in with the right balance of risk and flexibility.
the sector have also followed suit.
As we begin to develop our plans for the new Getting the balance right investment period and beyond, the views of KWS enjoyed another good year and now operates Whilst Kelda is leading the way for customer our customers and stakeholders will be crucial major clean and waste water contracts across the service, efficiency and value, we also concentrate in helping to shape our thinking.
With its growing track record, skills and on wider issues which are important to our placed to continue to build on the successful experience, KWS is now established as a key player employees, the environment and society.
in the UK market for outsourced clean and waste water services.
Our aspiration is to continue to The continued success of Kelda is thanks to the grow in this developing market by further professionalism and dedication of our people leveraging off our core skills.
and I would like to take the opportunity in this report to thank them for their hard work over Financial efficiency the last year.
It is their continuing commitment The sale of Aquarion also allows us to undertake at all levels within our organisation which some prudent financial management and improve generates new ideas and momentum to the efficiency of our balance sheet.
To this end, deliver improvements.
we have received shareholder approval to return approximately 750m of capital to shareholders by way of a B share scheme and share consolidation.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7 Business review Keldas customers enjoy some of the highest service levels in the UK Kelda Group plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2007
