6 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Chief Executives review Kingfisher remained focused on its four key strategic priorities, with the aim of delivering sustainable long-term growth and investment returns for shareholders.
Tough trading conditions in the UK and countries, including the Groups first stores well, management remains confident that France and extensive change programmes in Russia.
Annual sales in the Rest of an eventual 25% improvement in sales in B&Q UK, Castorama France and Europe exceeded 1 billion for the first productivity from existing larger stores is Brico Dpt combined to adversely time.
Asia sales and profits grew strongly, achievable.
By the end of the year, two affect profit growth in 2006 07.
However, benefiting from strong profit growth in new stores and nine revamped stores Kingfisher made good progress in its China following the integration of the OBI were trading in the new format.
B&Q plans strategic objectives for these companies China acquisition in 2005. to convert all the remaining large stores and delivered strong performances from to this format over the next four years, its growing businesses in the Rest of Strategic progress with a further 25 conversions planned Europe and Asia.
Kingfisher remained focused on its four for 2007 08.
The UK home improvement market key strategic priorities with the aim of In France, Castorama continued its remained challenging in 2006 07, with delivering sustainable long-term growth revitalisation programme with two new consumer spending constrained by rising and investment returns for shareholders.
store openings and a further seven stores interest rates and utility bills, as well as an Good progress was made against these converted to its latest format.
Six stores not increasing tax burden.
The market declined priorities during the year.
suitable for revamping were closed prior to further during the first half, before stabilising conversion to Brico Dpts.
Castorama over the summer and then starting to now trades from 98 stores and it will show signs of modest growth towards the A key development at B&Q continue its programme of revamping or end of the year.
Across the full year the relocating its remaining 65 older stores was the successful trial of market declined around 0.5%, having over the coming years.
Ranges continue to a new large-store format.
fallen by 4% in the previous year.
B&Qs be updated, including the recent launch of market share was broadly stable.
a wider selection of contemporary kitchens.
B&Q gathered momentum during the 1 Strengthening developed year and delivered sales and profit growth businesses 2 Expanding proven growth in the second half.
B&Qs development These businesses include B&Q UK and businesses programme is encouraging and the pace Castorama France, representing almost These businesses include Brico Dpt of activity is accelerating in 2007 08. two-thirds of Kingfishers sales.
France, Castorama Poland and Italy, B&Q I remain convinced that these initiatives These established businesses are China, Taiwan and Ireland, and Screwfix will make B&Q more attractive to its focused on strengthening their leadership Direct in the UK.
In total they generate customers and more valuable for positions by improving the sales productivity over one-third of Kingfishers sales.
of existing store space and cost efficiency.
These younger businesses already In France, the market became more The majority of current investment in these enjoy market-leading positions and have price competitive as the year progressed, businesses is in modernising existing reached a scale where they contribute compressing Kingfishers overall French stores and business infrastructure, with strongly to Kingfishers sales and profit gross margin by around 100 basis points modest capacity expansion.
growth and deliver good economic in the second half.
This pressure is B&Q made progress on its four returns.
Their main priority is to continue expected to continue into 2007 08. operational drivers price competitiveness, to expand quickly to capitalise on their However, Castorama made good progress customer service, new products and store market leadership.
In total, these in developing its stores and ranges and environment.
A key development in the businesses generated cash after funding Brico Dpt expanded further and year was the successful trial of a new their cost of expansion in 2006 07. strengthened its infrastructure.
large-store format which will form the To support continued expansion, 182 Elsewhere in Europe and Asia, blueprint for revamping all of B&Qs 115 million, 40% of Kingfishers total capital Kingfishers international expansion large stores.
With new customer service spend for the year, was invested in these continued with 27 new stores in nine initiatives and new ranges also performing businesses.
Fifty-six net new stores were Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 7 Gerry Murphy, Kingfishers Group Chief Executive, at the recently revamped B&Q store in Reading.
B&Q had 11 revamped larger stores by the year end, with a further 25 planned for the current year.
opened in the year, taking the total in this During the year, investment of 51 million offices in several more, it is important to category to nearly 270, with a similar 11% of Kingfishers total capital spend establish consistent environmental and number planned to open in 2007 08. was made in these developing businesses.
social standards across the Groups In France, Brico Dpt added 10 Twelve stores opened in the year, taking diverse operations, while taking into new stores, taking the total to 81, and the total trading to 29.
Koctas is now account the different cultures and levels of 5 5 implemented a major new system upgrade profitable after expansion costs and Brico development of its operating companies.
to enhance the competitiveness and Dpt Spain is also on track to overall In response, Kingfisher has developed an productivity of the business.
In the UK, profitability within the next 12-18 months.
environmental and social management Screwfix Direct opened 31 of the Trials continued into the second year at system known as Steps to Responsible successful new trade counter stores, Trade Depot which opened two more Growth that sets out specific actions that taking the total to 38. stores to serve the UK professional all operating companies must take to meet Elsewhere in Europe, Castorama market.
In Russia, three stores opened policy commitments see pages 18 and 19 Poland, which is aimed at the mainstream during the year, marking Kingfishers entry for further details.
Good progress was consumer, continued to grow strongly.
made in these key areas during the year The first trial Brico Dpt store was A further 12 stores are planned to in all of our businesses.
Ian Cheshire, opened in Warsaw to target the trade open in 2007 08 in these development Chief Executive of B&Q, has become professional.
a member of the Corporate Leaders Ireland also achieved strong growth.
Group on Climate Change, a group of UK In China, B&Q completed the 4 Capitalising on buying scale and business leaders working with the integration of the OBI stores acquired international diversity government to combat climate change, during 2005 and returned to profitability During the year, Kingfisher continued and I am delighted to report that B&Q was for the year.
In total, 58 stores are now to bring new products to market, develop recognised as the leading UK retailer for trading, consolidating B&Qs position as its own-brands and extend direct sourcing Corporate Social Responsibility with the largest home improvement retailer in from low-cost producers.
Kingfisher a Retail Week award for its autumn 2006 China.
B&Q Taiwan, a 50% joint venture, continued to develop its network of energy saving campaign.
now operates 21 stores across the island overseas sourcing offices in Europe and and is the clear market leader.
Direct sourcing shipments totalled Outlook store format has been successfully trialled.
around US$700 million, an increase Whilst trading conditions for our biggest of over 20% on the previous year.
businesses continue to be challenging, Kingfisher companies also continued the longer-term outlook remains positive Whilst trading conditions to share ideas, management talent and for home improvement retailing.
best practice, as shown during the year Kingfishers leading market positions in for our biggest businesses in the development of the new B&Q the UK and France, and fast-developing continue to be challenging, large-store format in the UK, the launch positions elsewhere in Europe and Asia, the longer-term outlook of Brico Dpt in Poland and the entry provide a powerful platform from which to of Castorama into Russia.
deliver sustainable long-term growth and remains positive for home returns for shareholders.
Corporate Responsibility Ahead of the key Easter trading Kingfisher is committed to ensuring that period, early 2007 08 trading has been 3 Establishing new opportunities for the long-term development of its business stronger in our major markets, supported the future is sustainable and reflects the values and by better weather.
These businesses include Brico Dpt expectations of the communities in which Spain, Castorama Russia, Koctas Turkey it operates.
As an international business Gerry Murphy 5 5 and Trade Depot in the UK.
with stores in 11 countries and sourcing Group Chief Executive Capitalising Establishing Expanding Strengthening 8 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Markets at a glance International expansion has been at the core of Kingfishers strategy for many years.
Castorama opened its first overseas business in Italy in 1988 and B&Q entered Taiwan in 1996.
This strategy has continued in a measured way over the years, leading to a strong and fast-growing portfolio of international businesses which today provide strong growth and attractive economic returns for Kingfisher.
Asia Total 35 bn 128 bn Huge markets Rest of Europe Kingfishers international markets 36 bn in aggregate are nearly five times the size of the UK market.
France 31 bn UK 26 bn Major growth opportunities Population Market Market Forecast DIY annual market growth 2006-2009 million size share billion % UK 61 26 15 China 14.0% France 61 31 9 Russia 10.0% Rest of Europe Poland 7.2% Poland 38 4 10 Italy 58 13 2 Ireland 7.1% Turkey 74 4 3 Ireland 4 0.8 8 Spain 6.9% Spain 44 5 1 Taiwan 5.5% Russia 142 10 n a France 4.9% Asia China 1,300 27 2 Italy 4.2% Taiwan 23 2 10 UK 2.5% South Korea 49 6 n a Source: EIU Source: Kingfisher estimates Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 9 Kingfishers 18 years of Identify those markets that offer real scale, with opportunities international expansion for growth and returns has been based on Research the market in depth several key principles: Build a strong local team from local nationals and allow local management autonomy, subject to close central monitoring of Key Performance Indicators Share ideas, resources and suppliers from around Kingfisher to create local advantage but adapt the business model to the local environment Expand once the business case is proven, and exit if it is not Kingfisher entered the Russian market in 10 billion market growing fast 2006 with the Castorama brand.
It now has 85% of homes need refurbishment three stores, with plans for another two during 2007 08.
Newly constructed homes are delivered as empty shells Russia is a large and fast-growing requiring customers to complete the fit-out consumer market.
It has the largest population The mortgage market is developing in Europe 142 million.
Moscow alone has a population of 12 million, St Petersburg Property prices are rising has 4.8 million and a further 18 cities have Half of all Muscovites own a second property dacha populations of over 500,000.
Consumer demand is generally strong and growing fast and spending on the home is particularly strong the DIY market has grown by 11% on average every year for the last five years.
The market is very fragmented.
Only 3% of demand is satisfied by modern, organised stores.
Focus on Russia St Petersburg Samara Moscow Kingfisher UK France Rest of Europe Asia Hornbach Capitalising Establishing Expanding Strengthening
