Peter Hill Chief Executives review We design, develop and supply the technology that with the overall growth of 5% still being achieved allows people, organisations and electronic devices despite the divestment Security Systems underlying to connect effectively and efficiently, locally and profit was 23.4 million less in 2007 compared with globally key requirements in todays increasingly 2006 and the adverse effects of currency movements.
The effect of currency movements has been to reduce total underlying profit in the year by 5.1 million: at Results constant exchange rates total underlying profit would Laird has produced another set of strong results in have been 12% higher than in 2006.
Revenue from our continuing business, Laird Technologies, was 564.3 million in 2007, up 52% Underlying earnings per share from continuing 2006, 370.6 million, driven by continuing market operations increased by 60% to 33.1 pence 2006, growth, increased customer demand for our products, 20.7 pence.
Total underlying earnings per share in market share gains, new product applications and 2007 were 34.9 pence 2006, 31.7 pence.
Organic revenue growth, one of our Key Performance Indicators Divestment of Security Systems KPIs, was 34%.
The Security Systems Division was divested on 27 April 2007, for a total consideration of Underlying profit before tax from continuing 242.5 million.
Underlying operating profit from operations was 72.4 million in 2007, up 59% 2006, Security Systems, prior to its divestment, was 45.5 million, helped by a further expansion of our 4.4 million 2006, 27.8 million.
Shareholder value low cost manufacturing base.
Profit growth at constant will continue to be increased by the redeployment exchange rates was 69%.
Operating margin for the of capital from Security Systems into our successful year one of our KPIs was 14.2% 2006, 14.9%.
The and fast expanding Laird Technologies business.
small reduction was due to the effects of acquisitions Shareholders participated in the crystallisation of and a change in product mix.
value realised by the disposal, through a return of capital of approximately 100 million in June 2007.
Statutory profit before tax from continuing operations in 2007, after exceptional items, the amortisation Focusing on Laird Technologies of acquired intangibles, the gain or loss on the Laird Technologies is the global leader in the design disposal of businesses and the fair valuing of financial and supply of components that reduce or prevent instruments, was 30% higher at 51.5 million 2006, interference both within and between electronic 39.6 million.
devices, and antennae for mobile handsets.
We also provide a variety of other communications antennae, Total underlying profit before tax in 2007, including four a wide range of thermal management products, and months contribution from Security Systems prior to complete wireless modules and systems.
its divestment, was 76.8 million 2006, 73.3 million, 04 The Laird Group PLC We supply components and systems to high Laird is a leader in the growth global electronics markets, including cellular handsets, telecommunications infrastructure, voice design and supply of and data communications, asset tracking, satellite radio and information technology sectors, and also customised, performance supply the automotive, aerospace and defence, consumer electronics, medical and industrial markets.
critical products and Higher speed, power and performance of systems for wireless electronic devices, as well as the increasing trend to wireless connectivity, drive an increasing need and other advanced for our products and solutions.
Our strategy over recent years has been to broaden our technology electronic applications: capabilities such that we are now able to offer a unique range of products and solutions.
This Technology for a also gives us access to new, high growth market segments, the ability to combine products and connected world.
exploit technology convergence and to increase the content of our offering in individual electronic devices.
We are developing our radio frequency RF systems capability, allowing us to address an increasingly high growth market.
We strive for leadership in our chosen markets, working closely with our global and local OEM customers in design and development, supporting them in their multiple locations based on our own global footprint of design, engineering, manufacturing and sales infrastructure.
We are a leader in the design and supply of customised performance critical products and systems for wireless and other advanced electronics applications: we provide technology for an increasingly connected world.
The Laird Group PLC 05 00 007 Annual Report MARKETS: Mobile Phone Handsets HANDSET SHIPMENTS In 2007, global handset shipments were some 1,140 million, up some 16% over 2006: during the 2,000 past five years, handset shipments have almost tripled, with a 22% average annual growth rate.
1,600 China continues to be an important driver of handset sales and now boasts the worlds largest mobile 1,200 subscriber base at over 500 million users.
India shows even more potential than China.
India is likely to 800 overtake the USA as the worlds second largest mobile phone market in 2008: currently, over 7 million new subscribers a month sign up, and 400 within five years the user base promises to overtake China itself.
0 Worldwide, almost one third of existing subscribers Developing Source: Gartner, Dec 2007 purchase a new mobile phone every year, either Developed because their existing one was lost, stolen or broken, is Asia Pacific out of style, or lacks the latest features.
Mobile phones have become fashion accessories and personal items that for many need to be updated regularly.
Antenna control circuitry production utilising state-of-the-art New subscribers tend to buy voice-only phones, component placement equipment at Laird Technologies new but when buying replacement phones they tend to clean room in Beijing, China.
choose more features, including cameras, Bluetooth, GPS, MP3 and stereo speakers.
This trend is observable in China, India and emerging economies.
Feature-rich mobile phones are more complex and require more, and more advanced, components.
Japan leads the way in new mobile phone features and these, including electronic wallets and mobile TV, are often incorporated into mobile phones sold elsewhere, helping to further drive the replacement market.
The Laird Group PLC 07 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Unit shipments millions MARKETS: IT and Datacomm PC NOTEBOOK SHIPMENTS The IT and Datacomm segment has driven the electronics industry for most of its history.
It includes 500 maturing sub-segments such as desktop PCs, as well as higher growth segments such as servers, 400 Notebook PCs, internet routers and switches and telecommunication infrastructure, together with emerging fast growing niches such as Ultra 300 Mobile PCs.
200 The desktop market is forecast to grow in unit terms by some 5% annually over the next several years, 100 while the Notebook PC and Ultra Mobile PC should deliver stronger unit growth, averaging 17% and over 50%, respectively.
Notebook growth is likely to be 0 further driven by new, low-cost portable designs.
Server Source: Gartner Dataquest, Dec 2007 Computing has evolved from the operation of Notebook applications resident on the PC to a networked Desktop communications portal, communicating with others and utilising content stored on the network.
The number of devices that can fulfil the role of a network Laird Technologies products enable high speed digital portal has also grown, including mobile phones, communications essential to broadband internet access, automobiles, home appliances, set-top boxes, and streaming video, gaming and other advanced communications TVs, as well as PCs.
The growing importance of networked communications and distributed digital content has boosted the outlook for networking and storage equipment.
The server market is expected to show continuing growth over the next five years, as is that for internet routers and switches, driven by tremendous increases in data storage and exchange, as well as Voice over Internet Protocols.
Video delivery over the network, still in its early days, has the opportunity to further drive this segment.
The Laird Group PLC 09 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Unit shipments millions MARKETS: Transportation SATELLITE RADIO SHIPMENTS Over recent years, the electronics content per vehicle has increased remarkably, driven by the incorporation 12,000 of such advanced features as antilock braking, anti-collision systems, airbags, advanced audio and audiovisual systems, tyre pressure monitoring, and 9,000 parking assist cameras.
The faster growing portions of this market are 6,000 focused directly on the consumer and include systems enabled by electronics including heating and cooling, and devices that would be classified 3,000 as consumer electronics if they were not installed in an automobile, such as GPS, Bluetooth, DVD entertainment and Satellite Digital Radio.
These 0 consumer focused sub-segments are expected to lead the overall growth of the automotive Other Source: Telematics electronic market.
Research Group, Americas Oct 2007 Another area of growth is in Intelligent Transportation Systems, both within the vehicle itself with features such as lane departure warning and adaptive cruise control, and where the vehicle itself interacts Many leading edge vehicle communication systems including with a transport network or is linked to asset satellite radio, tracking, security and in-vehicle safety systems tracking systems for insurance, security or fleet feature products designed and produced by Laird Technologies.
The recent rise in oil prices has broadened the appeal of green alternatives which boost the electronics content per vehicle, including clean diesels, cylinder deactivation, and hybrid vehicles, whose popularity is growing strongly within the Japanese and American markets.
The next frontier in automotive electronics is likely to be networked communications.
While such networks are currently implemented on a limited basis, the development of broadband and WiFi access is likely to reach critical mass over the next five years.
The Laird Group PLC 11 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Unit shipments 000s MARKETS: Consumer Electronics FLAT SCREEN TV SHIPMENTS Over the last ten years the consumer has emerged as a key driver of the electronics industry.
The market 250 includes an array of devices, including Audio MP3 players, CD players, digital radios, Video TVs, 200 DVDs, portable video players, Cameras digital still cameras, digital camcorders, and Game Systems.
Over the next five years the consumer electronics 150 market is expected to continue to grow strongly in unit terms.
100 Flat panel displays have been one of the fastest 50 growing segments of the electronics industry.
Plasma screens, with unit shipment growth running at over 15% annually, have traditionally dominated the 0 larger screen market, while liquid crystal displays are growing at an even faster rate of over 30% PDP displays Source: iSuppli, Dec 2007 annually.
The existence of multiple competing display LCD displays technologies LCD, plasma, micro displays and investments by the LCD panel makers, have made prices more competitive, enabling strong growth in unit shipments and average panel sizes.
Another high growth area has been Game Systems, Laird Technologies products help remove heat and electronically with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo all developing and protect flat-panel displays and other consumer electronics devices.
bringing to market new products with increasingly advanced features.
The continued growth of new consumers in emerging markets such as China and India is helping to drive the consumer electronics market.
In emerging economies, electronics consumption per capita climbs more quickly than does GDP, with gains in purchasing power driving the purchase of consumer devices: this is expected to sustain the consumer electronics market in future years.
The Laird Group PLC 13 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Unit shipments millions MARKETS: Industrial and Instrumentation WIRELESS MODULE M2M SHIPMENTS The industrial and instrumentation market is one of the most fragmented segments of the overall 300 electronics industry.
The market is diverse, with many applications for increasingly advanced electronics 250 devices and systems.
200 A significant and growing industrial electronics endmarket is factory automation equipment, including 150 sensing and controls.
The continued growth of manufacturing capacity and capabilities in countries 100 such as China, India, and Vietnam will sustain the capital equipment supply chain.
50 Networked communications are becoming more 0 prevalent in the industrial electronics sector, principally in the form of machine-to-machine M2M Cellular Source: Various, 2007 communications with the transfer of data for control, Non-cellular measurement and display purposes.
Growing applications include electronic point of sale EPoS remote monitoring, radio frequency identification RFID, building automation, aerospace electronics, Laird Technologies products are critical to the performance of a and remotely operated infrastructure applications broad range of applications including medical devices, industrial including lighting and security.
Applications for process controllers, energy generation systems and industrial wireless modules also include a growing need within diagnostic equipment.
the medical and healthcare sectors.
Another growing segment of the industrial electronics market is related to alternative energy and energy conservation.
Photovoltaics, and wind power with associated control electronics, have grown at average rates exceeding 25% over the past five years and this growth is forecast to continue in the coming years.
High brightness Light Emitting Diodes LEDs are also poised to emerge as a major industrial electronics application over the next several years.
Already widely used in automotive and display applications, the use of high brightness LEDs in industrial applications is expected to grow strongly driven by improving economics as well as size and lifestyle considerations.
The Laird Group PLC 15 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Unit shipments millions OPERATING REVIEW Antenna & Wireless Systems Division We design, develop and supply components and systems that provide and enhance connectivity, helping people and machines to communicate better and faster by voice or with data.
This Division comprises our cellular and handheld antennae products, where we are the global market leader, our telematics and infrastructure antennae products, where we are the market leader in North America, and our nascent wireless systems activities.
The Division has integrated the capabilities of Centurion Wireless Technologies acquired in 2004, RecepTec and Antenex 2006, AeroComm and Cushcraft 2007 and Ezurio 2008.
The Laird Group PLC 17 Antenna & Wireless Systems We supply a broad range of markets:- Year ended 2007 2006 Growth Mobile Phone Handsets 31 December m m Cellular and complementary antennae and antennae Revenue 257.5 173.1 49% sub-assemblies and modules, and power products, for the mobile phone and wireless portable device Underlying operating profit 30.0 19.5 54% industry.
Return on sales 11.7% 11.3% IT and Datacomm Wireless broadband infrastructure antennae for AWS 2007 REVENUE BY MARKET SEGMENT Wireless Local Area Networks WLAN, Wireless Fidelity WiFi, World Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax, Radio Frequency Identification RFID and Wireless Internet Service Providers WISP applications.
Automotive and Transportation Antennae solutions, including Satellite Digital Audio Radio SDAR, Global Positioning System GPS, cellular, Bluetooth and analogue and digital terrestrial radio for automotive OEMs and other vehicle and marine applications, including asset tracking and Handsets Industrial and Instrumentation transportation systems management.
Other IT Datacomm Transportation Industrial and Instrumentation External and embedded antennae systems, Radio AWS 2007 REVENUE BY PRODUCT GROUP Frequency RF modules and power products for wireless devices, wireless infrastructure and Machine to Machine M2M applications, serving a wide variety of end user markets.
The excellence in what we do, coupled with the benefits of our leading market and technology positions were reflected in the Divisions strong results in 2007, with revenues growing by almost 50% to 257.5 million and underlying operating profit by 54% to 30.0 million.
Organic revenue growth for the Division in the year Mobile Antenna Infrastructure systems Antenna systems was 33%, driven predominantly by exceptionally Telematics Wireless systems 18 The Laird Group PLC strong growth in our shipments of cellular antennae We also saw growth from our communications modules and sub-assemblies.
These have higher and infrastructure antennae in North America, and average selling prices as a result of both the technical our presence in this market was bolstered by our complexity of the antennae and their combination acquisition of Cushcraft in February 2007.
We are with cameras, acoustic boxes and stereophonic adding specialist engineers to our existing sales force loudspeakers, and other bought in components.
in Europe and Asia, to allow us to begin selling into Growth of modules and sub-assemblies is expected those markets.
to be less in 2008, with organic growth overall expected to return to more normal levels.
Our wireless systems activity, where we supply fully functioning wireless modules and which was initiated The Divisions average percentage margin increased with the acquisition of AeroComm in January 2007, slightly in the year, with the positive mix effect was enhanced further with the acquisition of Ezurio of acquisitions and economies of scale more in February 2008.
Together, these acquisitions give than offsetting the greater proportion of bought us an initial foothold in the fast growing wireless M2M in components in the modules, where we add sectors such as asset management, healthcare, value by offering integrated design, manufacturing telematics, security and electronic point of sale.
We and testing of the complete module, which has a see excellent potential in this area and expect to lower percentage return on sales due to the higher develop our presence further.
Overall, our ambition is to be the leader in the In 2007 we also benefited in handset antennae from industrial, consumer and automotive segments of our positions on both high volume handsets and on antennae and wireless communications technology, the lower volume, but higher functionality models geographically diversified and with a wide spread of where our content is greater.
We maintained our customers and end user markets, allowing people, strong position with the worlds leading handset organisations and electronic devices to communicate company, Nokia, grew our antennae market share better and more effectively.
with Motorola, Sony Ericsson and LG, and started selling to the major Taiwanese Original Design Manufacturers ODMs.
We shipped approximately 260 million handset antennae units, including complementary antennae, up 25% compared with 2006.
In telematics, we saw good growth in our shipments to our major automotive customers, particularly in North America.
We continued to increase the penetration of our antennae in a flat vehicle market, while reducing our presence as planned in the low margin consumer retrofit segment.
The Laird Group PLC 19 OPERATING REVIEW Electronic Components & Systems Division We design, develop and supply throughout the world the high precision, performance critical components and systems that make electronic devices function and connect effectively, whether for voice or visual communication or for high quality data storage and transmission.
This Division designs, manufactures and markets our Electromagnetic Interference EMI shielding products, where we are the global market leader, together with our signal integrity and thermal management products: these provide vital protection for a wide range of electronic devices, allowing them to function and connect effectively.
In early 2007 we entered the electromechanical actuation device business with the acquisition of M2sys in Korea, growing it rapidly during the year to become the market leader in the design and supply of these devices, which improve the physical functionality and versatility of mobile phone handsets.
The Laird Group PLC 1 Electronic Components & Systems We supply a broad range of markets:- Year ended 2007 2006 Growth Mobile Phone Handsets 31 December m m Board level and other EMI shielding, thermal Revenue 306.8 197.5 55% management products, electromechanical actuation devices, and a range of ancillary electronic contacts Underlying operating profit 50.0 35.9 39% and components for mobile handsets and other Return on sales 16.3% 18.2% portable devices.
IT and Datacomm ECS 2007 REVENUE BY MARKET SEGMENT Multiple components for network infrastructure equipment, including internet routers, switches, telecommunication base stations, and infrastructure antennae systems, plus a wide range of electronic, mechanical and wireless products for the personal and notebook computer, server and printer industries.
Automotive and Transportation System and components for critical electronic systems such as collision avoidance, vehicle safety systems, adaptive cruise control, power steering and communications, as well as for comfort features such Handsets Consumer as climate control systems.
IT Datacomm Industrial and Instrumentation Transportation Other Consumer EMI, thermal and signal integrity products for ECS 2007 REVENUE BY PRODUCT GROUP subsystems within flat screen TVs, game consoles and accessories.
Industrial and Instrumentation EMI and thermal management solutions for motor controls, LED lighting, power systems, uninterruptible power supplies, medical diagnostic and clinical chemistry devices and surgical equipment, together with a limited number of military applications.
The benefits of our leading market and technology positions, together with our global footprint, were also reflected in this Divisions results in 2007, EMI Thermal with revenues growing by 55% to 306.8 million Actuation products Signal Integrity and underlying operating profit by nearly 40% to 50.0 million.
The Laird Group PLC Organic revenue growth for this Division was 35%, Philips, continued to go well, while new products driven predominantly by exceptionally high year-on-year are being used in the Microsoft Xbox and the Sony growth in sales of our actuation devices.
EMI shielding sales into the medical expect the same level of growth in this area in 2008, and instrumentation markets, and thermoelectric with organic growth overall expected to return to cooler sales into the industrial, automotive, aerospace more normal levels.
and medical markets have also remained buoyant.
Although the Divisions percentage return on sales Our largely customised, high precision products and declined in 2007 this was due to two specific factors.
systems are critical in maintaining and enhancing One was the mix effect of acquisitions, which had the integrity and performance of our customers lower margins than the Divisions average although electronic devices.
We expect that the increasing we would expect these margins to increase over challenges for our customers of conducted and time under our ownership.
The other was the greater radiated EMI and of heat generation, as the power, than normal growth in sales of our high specification speed and performance of devices increases, will actuation devices which have a higher materials continue to drive demand for this Divisions products, content and, therefore, lower average percentage while changing form factors in mobile phone handsets margins than the rest of the Divisions products.
should continue to drive increasing demand for our actuation products.
We aim to be the market leader As well as the excellent progress seen in actuation in all of these areas, and increasingly to promote products during the year, we also saw continuing and exploit technology and product convergence strong growth for our EMI and thermal interface between our two Divisions.
products into the notebook PC market, particularly with Dell, HP and Apple.
We continued to see buoyant sales into the server, networking equipment and telecommunications base station markets, particularly to Cisco, Huawei, Alcatel, ZTE, Motorola, Ericsson and HP, for our EMI shielding, thermal interface and signal integrity products.
Our EMI board level shielding sales into the handset market, while still delivering double digit organic growth, were held back compared with previous years by a reduction in demand from one of our customers as a result of its own sales decline.
However, our board level shielding penetration increased at Sony Ericsson and we achieved our first sales of these products to Samsung.
Our EMI shielding sales into the flat screen TV market, predominantly to Panasonic, Samsung, Hitachi and The Laird Group PLC 3 OPERATING REVIEW Leading Edge Technologies Our aim is to make ourselves indispensable to our customers through delivering technology based solutions, by maintaining our technology leadership.
Technology Focus We focus our technology development on the following key areas:- Antennae design, simulation and optimisation capability: this is at the heart of our competitive advantage in the communications marketplace.
Radiated and conducted EMI suppression technology enabling proper system function in Laird Technologies Artificial todays electrically noisy environments.
Intelligence Optimiser provides the highest performance Satellite data reception and processing technology, antenna design solution at enabling satellite radio, GPS and multi-band signal significantly reduced time and reception and processing.
Active wireless systems, firmware and hardware development, for radio modules and assemblies.
Laird Technologies Corporate Research Laboratory in Bangalore, India will focus on fundamental material science that will provide Thermoelectric device and subsystem technology, breakthrough, new products.
enabling us to build industry leading thermal management modules and assemblies.
Thermally conductive materials technology, performance critical components and solutions that allow our customers devices to function effectively.
Strong Growth in Research and Development Investment Our investment in research and development in 2007 was 25.0 million, up 26% on 2006 and was approximately 4.5% of revenues.
Over half our spend is on new development programmes, including redesigns for product extensions, targeted at near term customer development platforms and 4 The Laird Group PLC applications.
Nearly one quarter of the spend is in Exploiting Product Convergence product innovation for future platforms which result We are uniquely positioned to exploit our broad in completely new product families: the remaining range of products and technologies to deliver spend is on advanced technical research, offering multifunctional value to our customers.
We do this in the greatest future potential.
At the end of 2007 we a number of different ways:- employed 660 qualified engineers and technologists, one quarter of whom had masters degrees Technology convergence: Bringing together products or doctorates.
where the technical design characteristics are interdependent.
Building our Intellectual Property Portfolio The ownership of patents, trade secrets and Physical convergence: Combining two or more trademarks are all forms of intellectual property individual products into a single component.
protection that we utilise, helping us to maintain our technology leadership positions.
In 2007, 121 new Modules: Bringing together components from a patents were granted, more than double the number variety of sources, internal and external, to form a granted in 2006, the growth being illustrative of new multifunctional high value product.
our increasing focus on protecting the intellectual property we create.
By the end of 2007 we possessed Sub-assemblies: Fitting modules and other 610 issued patents with a further 506 pending.
components together onto a single deck.
Product Design Centre Expansion Bundling: Supplying a range of our individual We are establishing a network of engineering products into a customers device.
centres to support the product design needs of our customers.
These centres are strategically located Delivering Value from Technology around the world close to our customers design Laird Technologies is delivering shareholder value facilities and serve the product design needs of the through innovation and technology leadership in the regions in which they are located.
These new design products and solutions we offer.
We own an industry centres will have the capability to design all Laird leading patent portfolio, and a global, multidisciplined Technologies products under one roof, achieving engineering skill base operating from strategically design synergy across our product lines and enabling located product design centres that are increasingly us to integrate the full range of our product offering to valuable to our customers.
We have a unique ability our customers.
All of these factors provide us with a technology based competitive Corporate Research Laboratory Established advantage.
In December 2007 we opened our new Corporate Research Laboratory in Bangalore, India providing an advanced technology research capability as well as horizon scanning for potential new technology opportunities and threats.
The Laird Group PLC 5 OPERATING REVIEW Operational Excellence LAIRD TECHNOLOGIES We focused heavily on operational excellence in EMPLOYEE HEADCOUNT BY GEOGRAPHIC 2007.
We believe this is a key differentiator, from REGION 2007 supplying our customers just in time, to being the lowest cost supplier.
During 2007 we invested in additional manufacturing capacity and in further developing our operational capabilities, through continuous improvement and more integrated supply chain management.
Expanding our Footprint In the first half of 2007 we completed factory moves into new, larger premises in Shanghai in China and Penang in Malaysia, and in the second half we opened our expanded 15,000 square metre facility in Reynosa, Mexico.
These followed our major new Asia North America plant expansions and relocations in Beijing, Tianjin and Mexico Shenzhen in China in 2006.
We increased our capacity Europe utilisation at all of these plants during the year.
2008 will see our 16,000 square metre facility in the Nokia Business Park in Chennai, India, fully on stream, and we are beginning the planning for our next wave of new manufacturing capacity, likely to Laird Technologies new 15,000 sq.
m. facility expansion in be in Western China and Vietnam.
In 2007, 81% of Laird Technologies revenues by origin were from Asia, Eastern Europe and Mexico 2006, 68%.
At the end of 2007, Laird Technologies had approximately 14,500 employees in 15 countries, of which 12,000 are in our regional manufacturing centres in Mexico, Eastern Europe and Asia, the majority of these in China.
Upgrading our Capabilities We made good progress in 2007 in enhancing our manufacturing capabilities and our process technologies.
Our investment in new production capacity and equipment and in improving our capabilities continues, underpinning our future growth.
Capital expenditure in 2007 was 25.6 million, 4.5% of sales and 52% higher than in 2006.
6 The Laird Group PLC Improving our Supply Chain By the end of 2007 22 sites were live on our new global QAD enterprise resource planning ERP system, which provides us with a fully integrated materials planning capability.
Our global commodity management and our strategic sourcing and procurement strategies are enabling us to reduce our materials costs and improve supplier quality.
More of our suppliers are now providing us with vendor managed inventories, helping contain our working capital requirements.
Reducing our Cost Base We commenced in the year a further restructuring of our North American EMI shielding operations, with the progressive closure of our facility at Delaware Water Gap, Pennsylvania, and a significant reduction in manufacturing at St. Louis, Missouri, with the transfer of operations to Mexico and China.
These actions follow the closure of our thermal products manufacturing facility in Trenton, New Jersey, and the cessation of antennae manufacturing and assembly in Lincoln, Nebraska, which have now been completed.
We have also successfully relocated the manufacturing and formulation of the ferrite compounds for our signal integrity products from the USA to China, as well as the component manufacturing.
These measures will provide cost benefits in 2008 and 2009.
Driving Continuous Improvement We saw good improvements in our manufacturing processes, product quality and cost reductions through our Six Sigma CIP programme during the course of 2007.
We now have well established systems and supporting infrastructure, and will continue to expand and broaden these initiatives across all of our businesses.
These initiatives are allowing us to meet the increasing demands of our customers, while remaining cost competitive and maintaining our margins.
