Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information CEOs statement We need to ensure we manage risk well As we migrate to a more mature services organisation, it is essential that we continue to evolve our risk management and strengthen our ability to monitor risk effectively.
We must build one team with one purpose The Groups transition to the Logica brand name across all its markets at the end of February has provided us with an excellent opportunity to establish one team with one purpose.
We will need to intensify the integration of the constituent parts of the organisation moving more quickly to common systems and processes and investing in growth across the Group whilst not losing our local knowledge, a real differentiator for the Group.
We will have to review our global delivery model and ensure we are globally competitive Although we have a well-developed blended delivery Andy Green, CEO model, I believe we need to be doing more to ensure that our business is globally competitive.
This will inevitably mean reducing our overhead costs and Dear Shareholder, better utilising labour from around the world in a I am delighted to have joined Logica as Chief Executive blended delivery model that effectively meets our Officer.
Whilst I have only been in post for a few customers needs.
months, I can see that this is a strong business with significant potential and I am very excited by the Since I started at Logica, we have also reviewed opportunity to help release this potential.
our approach to Corporate Responsibility.
This My focus since joining has been on understanding is something I feel passionately about.
I believe quickly what we should be doing to respond to the responsible companies are simply better at attracting challenges that faced Logica and how we should be and retaining the best people, winning new business working to build a successful and sustainable business and successfully growing their businesses.
over the longer term that delivers real value to you, our shareholders.
However, this years annual report is Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the not the place for me to make grand pronouncements whole Logica team for their unwavering commitment about the future.
As we go to press on the report, and hard work during a difficult period.
2008 will be a I am leading a review of the business, working closely busy year at Logica.
I genuinely believe that we have with the management team to determine the right way the opportunity to build a European leader in IT and forward for Logica.
business services and I look forward to working with A number of things have struck me about the the team to make this happen.
Some of the best people in the IT services business today work at Logica they are technical experts who also have a deep understanding of the industries in which they work.
We have close, long-term relationships with our customers who value us for our reliability and quality of service.
And, importantly, we have a leading position in Europe with Andy Green an established international presence.
Chief Executive Officer Whilst I do not want to prejudge the conclusions of the review of the business, I do believe that there are a number of critical things that we need to do to be successful: 35
