About Anglo American Chief executives statement 2007 was a year of change for our business one in which we continued to deliver strong returns for shareholders while also streamlining our business and laying the foundations for greater efficiency gains, as well as stronger growth into the future 06 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 About Anglo American 2007 highlights 15% $12bn Projects under development Increase in final dividend Record financial performance During the year, we made good strategic ExPAnDing OUr AssEt BAsE progress.
In May, we disposed of our remaining During 2007, we were active in In my first year as chief executive, I am pleased 29% holding in Highveld Steel and Vanadium, identifying and acquiring major new to report a record financial performance by and, in June, the unbundling of Hulamin from projects, particularly copper and iron Anglo American.
We achieved our highest ever Tongaat-Hulett was completed.
ore, to deliver significant volume operating profit of $10.1 billion and underlying Mondi, our paper and packaging business, growth over the next decade earnings of $5.8 billion, with continued strong was demerged in early July and established cash generation.
Once again, we are announcing as a dual-listed company on the London and 0 4%.
4 !, 6, 5-% '2 74 an increased final dividend 86 US cents per Johannesburg stock exchanges.
In line with our share, up 15% on 2006. intention to ultimately exit AngloGold Ashanti, #OPPER #OPPER The strength of our performance was due to we reduced our holding to 16.6%, realising in 4ONNES PER ANNUM MILLION 4ONNES PER ANNUM MILLION improved production volumes of ferrous metals, excess of $2.9 billion.
copper and zinc, an increased focus on In August, we announced plans to sell operational discipline and a continuation of the Tarmac.
Tarmac has a leading position in the supportive trading environment.
During 2007, UK construction materials industry, and is well high prices were realised for most of the Groups positioned in certain key markets in continental 0 4%.
6, 5-% '2 74 commodities, although these benefits were Europe and the Middle East.
Tarmac had a partially offset by adverse currency movements, very strong operational performance in 2007, #OPPER #OPPER supply-side constraints and ongoing pressure with a number of its business improvement 4ONNES PER ANNUM MILLION 4ONNES PER ANNUM MILLION on costs across the mining sector.
initiatives starting to make a significant impact.
It is expected that the performance of Tarmac New approach to safety will continue to underpin a competitive sale process: however, it has been decided 2007 marked a turning point in our approach to not to launch the marketing phase of the safety.
Our past and current number of sale process until current credit market fatalities and injuries is simply unacceptable.
I strongly believe that optimally run businesses We also made progress during 2007 in RON ORE Potential copper output RON ORE have good safety records.
meeting the employment equity and black 4ONNES PER ANNUM MILLION 4ONNES PER ANNUM MILLION of 1.6 Mtpa by 2016 We have launched a series of new economic empowerment requirements of the initiatives to drive consistent safety messages South African Mining Charter, including and practices across our business.
groundbreaking equity participation We have shown that we are prepared to do arrangements in Anglo Platinums assets.
what is necessary to meet this challenge head In February 2008, the South African on by shutting down mine shafts where safety Department of Minerals and Energy confirmed performance has not been up to standard, to it would award Anglo American with all its new RON ORE RON ORE retrain affected employees and to conduct a order mining rights, subject to completion of 4ONNES PER ANNUM MILLION 4ONNES PER ANNUM MILLION thorough investigation of operating conditions.
Significant progress was made between the This is a landmark achievement for the Group first and second halves of the year and I expect and for the many black empowered businesses our operations to build upon this momentum with which we are partnered.
Expanding our asset base Delivering our strategic objectives During 2007, we were active in identifying and acquiring major new projects, particularly I have been very clear about my ambition for copper and iron ore, to deliver significant Anglo American our goal is to become the volume growth over the next decade.
The Group has a tremendous project The year under review has seen a pipeline, one of the strongest in the sector, combination of strategic restructuring and a building on our unique portfolio of existing period of building from a position of strength, assets and delivering considerable organic including the identification and execution of growth potential.
We have a number of major Potential iron ore output opportunities to drive new growth and value.
projects under development, involving of 150 Mtpa by 2017 The restructuring of Anglo American is investment of some $12 billion across all our almost complete and it is now that we can focus businesses.
In addition, we have a further on the operational improvements that will be $29 billion of projects under consideration.
delivered by our asset optimisation programme 2008 will also see our planned expansions and the cultural change that we are implementing delivering significant new production in iron across the Group.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 07 About Anglo American Chief executives statement In 2007, we made Several projects were approved in Anglo diamonds in October and plans to produce Platinum during the year, in particular the approximately 1.6 million carats per annum.
considerable progress $279 million expansion at the base metals In Botswana, fide Beers is reviewing a number towards achieving our aim refinery, the $139 million Townlands ore of development opportunities.
of becoming a significant replacement project and the $188 million Turning to acquisitions, we made player in the global Mainstream inert grind projects.
The $692 million considerable progress towards achieving our aim PPRust North expansion project is in progress of becoming a significant player in the global seaborne iron ore trade and will mill an additional 600,000 tonnes of seaborne iron ore trade.
In July, we purchased a ore per month.
49% stake in the MMX Minas-Rio iron ore Anglo Coal has approved expansion project in Brazil for an effective price of programmes in both South Africa and Australia.
$1.15 billion, plus a potential payment of The recently approved $505 million, 6.6 million up to $600 million if certain criteria are met.
tonnes per annum Mtpa Zondagsfontein Furthermore, in January 2008, Anglo American project will form an important component of announced that it was in exclusive discussions plans to increase Anglo Coals South African with MMXs majority shareholder to acquire production by 50% to around the 90 Mtpa control of the Minas-Rio project and the Amap level by 2015. iron ore mine for approximately $5.5 billion if In November we announced the approval of we acquire 100% of the interest held by MMX the $1.7 billion expansion of Los Bronces in Chile.
First production is scheduled for 2011 and will In April, we announced the acquisition of increase copper production to an initial level the Michiquillay copper project in northern Peru exceeding 400,000 tpa, making Los Bronces one for $403 million.
Michiquillay is one of the of the ten largest copper mines in the world.
Also largest undeveloped copper deposits in the in Chile, a two phase expansion at Collahuasi is world.
This is our second major investment in being considered.
In Brazil, the Barro Alto project is Peru where the feasibility study for the on schedule to boost the Groups nickel output, Quellaveco copper deposit in the south of the with first production due in 2010. country is at an advanced stage.
At Kumba Iron Ore, the commissioning In July, we acquired a 50% stake in the of the $754 million, 13 Mtpa Sishen Expansion Pebble copper project in Alaska for a staged Project commenced during the year, with ramp cash investment of $1.4 billion.
The key assets up to full production anticipated in 2009. of the project, which is co-owned by Northern In Canadas Northwest Territories, Dynasty Minerals, are its open pit Pebble West Below: Round-the-clock operations at fide Beers Snap Lake, the countrys only deposit and the deeper and higher grade Pebble Kumbas Sishen open pit, which yielded about 30 million tonnes of iron ore in 2007 underground diamond mine, delivered its first East deposit.
The Pebble resources rank among 08 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 About Anglo American 2007 highlights next section: How Anglo Americans ambition to become the leading mining company 71% is being realised Participation rate for HIV AIDS VCT the worlds most important accumulations of Sustainable development In spite of the cost copper, gold and molybdenum.
pressures, we achieved In both Peru and Alaska, a key priority is I am proud to say that we continue to be a $380 million in cost to build supportive relationships with local sector leader in terms of our approach to savings, synergies, communities, consistent with our policy of sustainable development.
We are seeking developing and operating projects to the highest to play our part in addressing the challenges efficiencies and standards and to promote truly sustainable of climate change by improving our energy procurement development.
efficiency, reducing our greenhouse gas Close to year end we announced the emissions, contributing to the development acquisition of a 70% interest, for $620 million, of clean coal technologies and through our in the Foxleigh coal mine in Australia, which involvement in public-policy discussions.
adjoins our German Creek and Lake Lindsay Our internationally recognised Outlook operations.
Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT We are also widening our horizons continues to help us understand the The global economic outlook for 2008 is clouded geographically.
In an exciting recent development, perspectives and concerns of the communities by uncertainty.
While it seems clear that US Anglo American and China Development close to our operations.
This year we have made economic activity will be weaker in 2008 than Bank have entered into a Memorandum of a three-yearly SEAT assessment mandatory for in recent years, it is less clear how economic Understanding MOU.
Anglo American is all our major operations.
growth will be affected in the rest of the world, actively looking for further projects in China and We are gaining ground in the fight against especially in those emerging markets whose the MOU represents a long term commitment HIV and AIDS with our successful voluntary growth has been largely responsible for the strong from both parties to establish a strategic counselling and testing VCT and treatment demand that has underpinned commodity prices.
relationship to identify and develop a pipeline of programme.
At a number of our collieries in South In South Africa, electrical power supply mining projects in China, Africa and elsewhere.
Africa, the VCT participation rate exceeds 90%, problems are causing disruption to mining while the overall Group figure continues to climb operations across the country.
At present, it is Driving operational excellence and had reached 71% by the end of 2007. difficult to accurately forecast the medium term Important progress was also made this year in impact of power shortages on Anglo Americans The mining industry continues to experience developing a new framework of occupational business.
We are working with Eskom and significant cost pressures across the supply health policies called The Anglo Occupational the South African government to implement chain, including freight, transportation, fuel and Health Way.
In spite of the cost pressures, we In 2007, we were an active voice in the Global commodity demand remains strong achieved $380 million in cost savings, synergies, development and promotion of the Extractive and seems likely to remain so throughout 2008. efficiencies and procurement, and we managed Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, which Commodity supply worldwide continues to be to contain our growth in cash costs to 4% supports improved governance in resource-rich constrained by skills shortages, rising capital above inflation.
countries, representing the mining sector on the and operating costs, longer permitting processes Above and beyond these cost-saving EITIs board.
and strong exchange rates in many of the activities, we are bringing greater rigour to our We were also involved in other multicountries where key operations are located.
operating platform by introducing a value based stakeholder initiatives, including the Voluntary Industry inventories are therefore likely to management VBM methodology across all our Principles on Security and Human Rights and remain low and continue to underpin prices.
A pilot project has been completed the Investment Climate Facility for Africa.
We The medium to long term secular trend of in Anglo Coal and we are now rolling VBM out continue to be involved in and to give our full strong commodity demand growth embracing, into the other businesses.
In addition, an asset support to the UN Global Compact.
We report as it does, the industrialisation and urbanisation optimisation initiative will maximise operational on progress implementing the principles in our of developing nations, especially China and efficiencies at site level and allow us to benchmark Report to Society in accordance with the India will continue to support prices over our performance and spread best practices.
externally verified Global Reporting Initiative.
We have carried out a comprehensive We have made clear our commitment to As a result, significant new mining review to define the best approach for delivering regular engagement with NGOs at a local, investments will be needed to satisfy that key business support functions and, as a result, national and international level.
Anglo American is well placed to we have decided to establish three shared association agreements with Fauna and Flora benefit from this favourable backdrop as services centres providing common accounting International on biodiversity issues and with the Group continues to realise its exciting and employee services, located in existing CARE International on development challenges.
offices in Asia Pacific, Latin America and South Africa.
We have also launched a centralised procurement programme to maximise the benefits of being a global operator.
Initial projections indicate that we shall achieve $1 billion worth of procurement and shared services savings Cynthia Carroll in the next three years.
Chief executive Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 09
