FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP ACCOUNTS Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC We have audited the group financial statements of Meggitt PLC for the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Consolidated Act 2006 Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive In our opinion: Income, the Consolidated Balance sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Change in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied for which the group financial statements are prepared is consistent in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial with the group financial statements: and Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
t he information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 35 to 37 with respect to internal control and risk Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 34, the directors are responsible for the preparation of Matters on which we are required to report by the group financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a exception true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for our opinion: Auditors.
certain disclosures of the Remuneration Report speci ed by law are This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for not made: or the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of we have not received all the information and explanations we require Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, for our audit: or in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other a Corporate Governance statement has not been prepared by the purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into parent company.
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors Statement, set out on page 37, in relation to going Scope of the audit of the financial statements concern: and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2008 assurance that the financial statements are free from material Combined Code speci ed for our review.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Other matter groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and We have reported separately on the parent company financial adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting statements of Meggitt PLC for the year ended 31 December 2009 and estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its pro t and cash ows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and John Maitland Senior Statutory Auditor have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the for and on behalf of  LLP Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Reading 1 March 2010 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 45 10-1012 Meggitt Back Section.
