FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY ACCOUNTS Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Meggitt Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies PLC for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Act 2006 Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting In our opinion: framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly Accepted Accounting Practice.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 34, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Matters on which we are required to report by parent company financial statements and for being satis ed that they exception give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Standards for Auditors.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for from branches not visited by us: or the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of the parent company financial statements and the part of the Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other accounting records and returns: or purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior not made: or consent in writing.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable We have reported separately on the group financial statements of assurance that the financial statements are free from material Meggitt PLC for the year ended 31 December 2009. misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements John Maitland Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion the parent company financial statements: for and on behalf of  LLP give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors December 2009: Reading have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 1 March 2010 Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 87 10-1012 Meggitt Back Section.
