Independent auditors report consolidated statements Independent auditors report to the members Opinion on other matters prescribed by the of Melrose PLC on the consolidated financial statements Companies Act 2006 We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Melrose In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the PLC for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consolidated Income Statement, the consolidated Balance Sheet, consistent with the Group financial statements.
the consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the consolidated Matters on which we are required to report by exception Statement of Comprehensive Income, consolidated Statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following.
of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 30.
The financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is in our opinion: applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, we have not received all the information and explanations we in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act require for our audit.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the Directors statement contained within the Directors report To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or in relation to going concern: and assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June or for the opinions we have formed.
2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Other matters As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, We have reported separately on the Company financial statements the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group of Melrose PLC for the year ended and on the information in the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true Directors Remuneration report that is described as having and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial been audited.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Nicola Mitchell Senior Statutory Auditor assurance that the financial statements are free from material for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate London, UK to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied 10 March 2010 and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
