Consolidated financial statements and notes Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Micro Matters on which we are required to report by exception Focus International plc for the year ended 30 April 2009 which We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where comprise the parent company balance sheet and the related notes.
the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their opinion: preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 49, the directors are responsible for the preparation the parent company financial statements and the part of the of the parent company financial statements and for being satis ed directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the with the accounting records and returns: or parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards not made: or Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only require for our audit.
for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Sections 495 to 497 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Other matter We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is Micro Focus International plc for the year ended 30 April 2009. shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable Pauline Campbell Senior Statutory Auditor assurance that the financial statements are free from material for and on behalf of  LLP misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Reading the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently 12 August 2009 applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the directors report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Micro Focus Annual Report and 79 International plc Accounts 2009
