Consolidated financial statements and notes Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Micro Focus Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies International plc for the year ended 30 April 2009 which comprise Act 2006 the consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, In our opinion the information given in the directors report for the the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity, the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared consolidated cash ow statement and the related notes.
The financial is consistent with the Group financial statements.
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Matters on which we are required to report by IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, set out on page 49, the directors are responsible for the preparation in our opinion: of the Group financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the certain disclosur es of directors remuneration speci ed by law are Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law not made: or and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards we have not r eceived all the information and explanations we Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Sections 495 and 496 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
the dir ectors statement, set out on page 37, in relation to going We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility concern: and for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed the part of the corporate gover finance statement relating to the by our prior consent in writing.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code speci ed for our review.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other matter disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable We have reported separately on the parent company financial assurance that the financial statements are free from material statements of Micro Focus International plc for the year ended misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 30 April 2009 and on the information in the directors remuneration assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to report that is described as having been audited.
the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements Pauline Campbell Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion the Group financial statements: for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as Reading at 30 April 2009 and of its pro t and cash ows for the year 12 August 2009 then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Micro Focus Annual Report and 50 International plc Accounts 2009
