Audit opinion for the Misys plc Group Independent auditors report to the members of Misys plc Overview Business review We have audited the group financial statements of Misys plc for the Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 year ended 31 May 2009 which comprise the consolidated income In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared expenditure, the consolidated cash ow statement, the consolidated is consistent with the group financial statements.
balance sheet, the accounting policies, and the related notes.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception The financial Reporting framework that has been applied in their We have nothing to report in respect of the following: preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of are not made: or the group financial statements and for being satis ed that they give we have not received all the information and explanations a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial we require for our audit.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standard on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the directors statement, set out in the Directors report, in relation to going concern: and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the for the companys members as a body in accordance with Sections companys compliance with the nine provisions on the 2006 495 to 496 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Combined Code speci ed for our review.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report Other matter is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly We have reported separately on the parent company financial agreed by our prior consent in writing.
statements of Misys plc for the year ended 31 May 2009 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described Scope of the audit of the financial statements as having been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable Anne Simpson Senior Statutory Auditor assurance that the financial statements are free from material for and on behalf of  LLP misstatement whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to London the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and 28 July 2009 adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 May 2009 and of its pro t and cash ows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
As explained in the accounting policies note to the group financial statements, the group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
