Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Mitchells & Opinion on financial statements Butlers plc for the year ended 26 September 2009 which comprise In our opinion the Group financial statements: the Group income statement, the Group statement of recognised give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as income and expense, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash at 26 September 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: flow statement and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable adopted by the European Union: and law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as have been prepared in accordance with the requirements adopted by the European Union.
of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Opinion on other matter prescribed by the in accordance with Sections 495, 496 and 497 of the Companies Companies Act 2006 Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might In our opinion: state to the Companys members those matters we are required the information given in the Directors report for the financial to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or consistent with the Group financial statements.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Matters on which we are required to report by exception or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement in our opinion: set out on page 34, the Directors are responsible for the preparation certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that are not made: or they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the we have not received all the information and explanations we Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law require for our audit.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Directors statement, set out on page 33, in relation to going concern: and Scope of the audit of the financial statements the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Other matters assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to We have reported separately on the parent company financial the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and statements of Mitchells & Butlers plc for the year ended adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting 26 September 2009 and on the information in the Directors estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Nigel Meredith Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor Birmingham 26 November 2009 56 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009
