Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on financial statements Mitchells & Butlers plc for the year ended 26 September 2009 In our opinion the parent company financial statements: which comprise the parent company balance sheet and the related give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs notes 1 to 15.
The financial reporting framework that has been as at 26 September 2009: applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom have been properly prepared in accordance with United Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Accounting Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Sections 495, 496 and 497 of the Companies Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Companies Act 2006 state to the Companys members those matters we are required In our opinion: to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and 2006: and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this the information given in the Directors report for the financial report, or for the opinions we have formed.
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement Matters on which we are required to report by exception set out on page 34, the Directors are responsible for the preparation We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the our opinion: parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices received from branches not visited by us: or Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in Scope of the audit of the financial statements agreement with the accounting records and returns: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable are not made: or assurance that the financial statements are free from material we have not received all the information and explanations we misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an require for our audit.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently Other matter applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall Mitchells & Butlers plc for the year ended 26 September 2009. presentation of the financial statements.
Nigel Meredith Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor Birmingham 26 November 2009 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 99
