MITIE Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2009 97 Overview Business review Governance Accounts Independent auditors report to the members of MITIE Group PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements We read the other information contained in the Annual Report of MITIE Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2009 which as described in the contents section and consider whether it is comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
These parent company financial statements have We consider the implications for our report if we become aware been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not We have reported separately on the group financial statements extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
of MITIE Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2009 and on the information in the directors' remuneration report that is described Basis of audit opinion as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment to the companys members those matters we are required to of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the the company's circumstances, consistently applied and companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, adequately disclosed.
or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and the parent company financial statements in accordance assurance that the parent company financial statements are free with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the are set out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial company financial statements.
statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Opinion requirements and International Standards on Auditing In our opinion: UK and Ireland.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Accounting Practice, of the state of the company's affairs as at parent company financial statements have been properly 31 March 2009: prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors' Report the parent company financial statements have been properly is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and The information given in the Directors' Report includes that specific the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with the information presented in the Chairmans statement, Chief parent company financial statements.
Executives Review, Operating Review, Financial Review and Corporate Governance Statement that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors' Report.
Deloitte LLP In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received Bristol, United Kingdom all the information and explanations we require for our audit, 18 May 2009 or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
