MITIE Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2009 60 Independent auditors report to the members of MITIE Group PLC For the year ended 31 March 2009 We have audited the group financial statements of if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the MITIE Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2009 board's statements on internal control cover all risks and which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow control procedures.
Statement and the related notes 1 to 36.
These group financial We read the other information contained in the Annual Report statements have been prepared under the accounting as described in the contents section and consider whether policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
We in the Directors' Remuneration Report that is described consider the implications for our report if we become aware as having been audited.
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies We have reported separately on the parent company with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not financial statements of MITIE Group PLC for the year ended extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the companys members, as a We conducted our audit in accordance with International body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, state to the companys members those matters we are of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the required to state to them in an auditors report and for no group financial statements and the part of the Directors' other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made company and the companys members as a body, for our by the directors in the preparation of the group financial audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group's circumstances, consistently Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors' Remuneration Report and the group financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all statements in accordance with applicable law and the information and explanations which we considered International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements of Directors' Responsibilities.
and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
of information in the group financial statements and the part We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
statements give a true and fair view, whether the group Opinion financial statements have been properly prepared in In our opinion: accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the directors' the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in remuneration report described as having been audited has accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the of its profit for the year then ended: information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the group financial statements have been properly the group financial statements.
The information given in the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 Directors' Report includes that specific information presented and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Operating review, Financial review and the Corporate the part of the directors remuneration report described Governance statement that is cross referred from the Business as having been audited has been properly prepared in Review section of the Directors' Report.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not the information given in the Directors Report is consistent received all the information and explanations we require for with the group financial statements.
our audit, or if information specified by law regarding director's remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Deloitte LLP We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors reflects the company's compliance with the nine provisions Bristol, United Kingdom of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report 18 May 2009
