Independent auditors report to the members of Mondi Limited Report on the financial statements We have audited the Group financial statements of Mondi Limited for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the directors report, the combined and consolidated income statement, the combined and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the combined and consolidated statement of financial position, the combined and consolidated statement of cash flows and the combined and consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended, the summary of significant accounting policies and the explanatory notes 1 to 41.
Managements responsibility for the financial statements The companys management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and in the manner required by the Companies Act of South Africa for South African companies.
This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Group financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditors consider internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the Group financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the combined and consolidated financial position of the Mondi Group as at 31 December 2009, and of its combined and consolidated financial performance and its combined and consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and in the manner required by the Companies Act of South Africa for South African companies.
Bronwyn Kilpatrick Partner Sandton 22 February 2010 Deloitte & Touche Registered Auditors Building 1 and 2, Deloitte Place, The Woodlands Woodlands Drive, Woodmead, Sandton Republic of South Africa National Executive GG Gelink Chief Executive AE Swiegers Chief Operating Officer GM Pinnock Audit DL Kennedy Tax, Legal and Risk Advisory L Geeringh Consulting L Bam Corporate Finance CR Beukman Finance TJ Brown Clients & Markets NT Mtoba Chairman of the Board CR Qually Deputy Chairman of the Board.
A full list of partners and directors is available on request.
76 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group
