Independent auditors report to the members of Mondi Limited Report on the components of the financial statements We have audited the accompanying statement of financial position and selected notes to the Mondi Limited parent company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Managements responsibility for the components of the financial statements The Companys management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the statement of financial position and selected notes in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, and in the manner required by the Companies Act of South Africa.
This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditors responsibility An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the statement of financial position and selected notes.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditors consider internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies related to the statement of financial position and selected notes used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the statement of financial position and selected notes gives a true and fair view of the statement of financial position of the company as at 31 December 2009 in accordance with the applicable IFRSs.
Bronwyn Kilpatrick Partner Sandton 22 February 2010 Deloitte & Touche Registered Auditors Building 1 and 2, Deloitte Place, The Woodlands Woodlands Drive, Woodmead, Sandton Republic of South Africa National Executive GG Gelink Chief Executive AE Swiegers Chief Operating Officer GM Pinnock Audit DL Kennedy Tax, Legal and Risk Advisory L Geeringh Consulting L Bam Corporate Finance CR Beukman Finance TJ Brown Clients & Markets NT Mtoba Chairman of the Board CR Qually Deputy Chairman of the Board.
A full list of partners and directors is available on request.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 169 Financial statements
