Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Opinion on other matters prescribed by the We have audited the Group and Company Financial Companies Act 2006 Statements the Financial Statements of In our opinion: Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC the Company for the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the year ended 31 December 2009 set out on pages 50 audited has been properly prepared in accordance to 77.
The financial reporting framework that has been with the Companies Act 2006: and applied in the preparation of the Group Financial the information given in the Directors Report for the Statements is applicable law and International Financial financial year for which the Financial Statements are Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company Financial Statements Matters on which we are required to report by is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK exception Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report is made solely to the Companys members, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the report to you if, in our opinion: Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been adequate accounting records have not been kept by undertaken so that we might state to the Companys the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have members those matters we are required to state to not been received from branches not visited by us: or them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Company Financial Statements and the part of the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are assume responsibility to anyone other than the not in agreement with the accounting records and Company and the Companys members, as a body, for returns: or our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have formed.
specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors explanations we require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 31, the Directors are Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: responsible for the preparation of the Financial the Directors statement, set out on page 30, Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true in relation to going concern: and and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial the part of the Corporate Governance Report in the Statements in accordance with applicable law and Directors Report relating to the Companys International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Combined Code specified for our review.
Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
John Costello Senior Statutory Auditor Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Chartered Accountants Statements is provided on the APBs website at St James Square www.
Manchester M2 6DS Opinion on Financial Statements In our opinion: 23 February 2010 the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 49
