Independent auditors report To the shareholders of Mothercare plc has been properly prepared in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as We have audited the group financial with the Companies Act 1985.
We also to obtain all the information and explanations statements of Mothercare plc for the 52 report to you, whether in our opinion, the which we considered necessary in order weeks ended 28 March 2009 which comprise information given in the directors report is to provide us with sufficient evidence to the consolidated income statement, the consistent with the group financial statements.
give reasonable assurance that the group consolidated statement of recognised The information given in the directors report financial statements and the part of the income and expense, the consolidated includes that specific information presented directors remuneration report to be audited balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow elsewhere in the annual report that is cross are free from material mis-statement, whether statement and the related notes 1 to 34. referenced from the business review section caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
These group financial statements have of the directors report.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated been prepared under the accounting the overall adequacy of the presentation of In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, policies set out therein.
We have also information in the group financial statements we have not received all the information audited the information in the directors and the part of the directors remuneration and explanations we require for our remuneration report that is described as report to be audited.
audit, or if information specified by law having been audited.
regarding directors remuneration and Opinion We have reported separately on the other transactions is not disclosed.
In our opinion: parent Company financial statements of We review whether the Corporate Governance the group financial statements give a true Mothercare plc for the 52 weeks ended statement reflects the Companys compliance and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as 28 March 2009. with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined adopted by the European Union, of the This report is made solely to the Companys Code specified for our review by the Listing state of the groups affairs as at 28 March members, as a body, in accordance with Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and 2009 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. we report if it does not.
We are not required ended: and Our audit work has been undertaken so that to consider whether the boards statement on the group financial statements have been we might state to the Companys members internal control covers all risks and controls, properly prepared in accordance with the those matters we are required to state to or form an opinion of the effectiveness of the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the them in an auditors report and for no other groups corporate governance procedures IAS Regulation: and purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted or its risk and control procedures.
by law, we do not accept or assume the part of the directors remuneration We read the other information contained responsibility to anyone other than the report described as having been audited in the annual report as described in the Company and the Companys members has been properly prepared in accordance contents section and consider whether it is as a body, for our audit work, for this report, with the Companies Act 1985: and consistent with the audited group financial or for the opinions we have formed.
We consider the implications the information given in the directors Respective responsibilities of directors for our report if we become aware of report is consistent with the group and auditors any apparent misstatements or material financial statements.
The directors responsibilities for preparing inconsistencies with the group financial the annual report, the directors remuneration statements.
Our responsibilities do not report and the group financial statements extend to any further information outside in accordance with applicable law and the annual report.
International Financial Reporting Standards Basis of audit opinion IFRS as adopted by the European Union We conducted our audit in accordance Deloitte LLP are set out in the statement of directors with International Standards on Auditing Chartered Accountants and Registered responsibilities.
UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Auditors Our responsibility is to audit the group Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, London, UK financial statements in accordance with on a test basis, of evidence relevant to 20 May 2009 relevant legal and regulatory requirements the amounts and disclosures in the group and International Standards on Auditing financial statements and the part of the UK and Ireland.
directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the We report to you our opinion as to whether significant estimates and judgements made the group financial statements give a true by the directors in the preparation of the and fair view, whether the group financial group financial statements and of whether statements have been properly prepared the accounting policies are appropriate in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 to the groups circumstances, consistently and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and applied and adequately disclosed.
whether the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited 39 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements
