888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of 888 Holdings plc We have audited the financial statements the financial statements We review whether the corporate governance statement set out in of 888 Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which the Directors Report reflects the Companys compliance with the comprise the Group income statement, the Group and Parent nine provisions of the 2008 Combined Code specified for our review Company balance sheets, the Group and Parent Company by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required statements of changes in equity, Group and Parent Company to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover statements of cash flow, Group and Parent Company statements all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the of comprehensive income and the related notes.
These financial Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set procedures.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Respective responsibilities of Directors and statements.
This other information comprises only the Directors auditors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Business Review, Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance the Enhanced Business Review, Risk Report, Corporate and Social with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Responsibility Report and the Corporate Governance Statement.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of information.
the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Our report has been prepared pursuant to the terms of our Auditing UK and Ireland.
888 Holdings Plc has complied with the engagement letter and for no other purpose.
No person is entitled requirements of rules 9.8.
8 of the Listing Rules of the UK to rely on this report unless such a person is a person entitled to rely Financial Services Authority and in accordance with Section 421 upon this report by virtue of the terms of our engagement letter or of the UK Companies Act 2006 in preparing its Annual Report, as has been expressly authorised to do so by our prior written consent.
if it was incorporated in the United Kingdom.
As auditors, we have Save as above, we do not accept responsibility for this report to agreed that our responsibilities in relation to the Annual Report will be any other person or for any other purpose and we hereby expressly those as set out below.
disclaim any and all such liability.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Basis of audit opinion give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements have We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards been properly prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act and the part of to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also in accordance with Section 421 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
We includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements also report to you whether in our opinion, the information disclosed made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and not received all the information and explanations we require for our adequately disclosed.
audit, or if information specified by the Listing Rules and Gibraltar legislation regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
com We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Emphasis of Matter Regulatory Issues information and explanations which we considered necessary in In forming our opinion, which is not qualified, we have considered order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the adequacy of, and draw attention to, the disclosures made in assurance that the financial statements and the part of the note 24 c to the financial statements concerning the residual risk Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material of an adverse impact arising from the Group having had customers misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
in the US prior to the enactment of the Unlawful Internet Gambling In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Enforcement Act.
presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Note 24 c includes a statement that the Board has not been able to identify reliably at this stage what, if any, liability may arise and Opinion accordingly no provision has been made.
In our opinion: l the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the BDO LLP Groups and the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2009 and Chartered Accountants of the Groups profit for the year then ended: 55 Baker Street London l the financial statements have been properly prepared in W1U 7EU accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated 22 March 2010 Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act: BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
l the part of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Section Desiree McHard Statutory auditor 421 of the UK Companies Act 2006: For and on behalf of BDO Limited Montagu Pavilion l the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with 810 Queensway the financial statements: and Gibraltar 22 March 2010 l we have nothing to report to you in respect of our responsibility set out above in relation to the Company keeping proper accounting records and the auditors receiving information and explanations for our audit and disclosures regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions.
