Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 57 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Independent auditors report to the members of Northern Foods plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Northern We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 which comprise the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the reconciliation of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
of net cash flow to movements in net debt, the Consolidated We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements statement of recognised income and expense and the related on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion notes 1 to 37. on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We read the other information contained in the Annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
report that is described as having been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies We have reported separately on the parent company financial with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do statements of Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended not extend to any further information outside the Annual report.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a We conducted our audit in accordance with International body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Companys members those matters we are required to state to of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the we have formed.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Directors remuneration report and the Group financial statements information and explanations which we considered necessary in accordance with applicable law and International Financial in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union assurance that the Group financial statements and the part are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial Opinion statements have been properly prepared in accordance with In our opinion: the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in and whether the part of the Directors remuneration report accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, described as having been audited has been properly prepared of the state of the Groups affairs as at 28 March 2009 and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended: whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report the Group financial statements have been properly prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received the part of the Directors remuneration report described all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if as having been audited has been properly prepared information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Leeds 27 May 2009
