INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PAYPOINT PLC We have audited the group and parent company financial statements Basis of audit opinion the financial statements of PayPoint plc for the 52 weeks ended We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 29 March 2009 which comprise the consolidated income statement, on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the and parent company cash ow statements and the related notes part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited.
These financial statements have been prepared under includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgments the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, information in the Remuneration Committee Report that is described and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups as having been audited.
and companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys information and explanations which we considered necessary in members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, assurance that the financial statements and the part of the we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited are free from material company and the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Remuneration Committee Report and the financial statements in Opinion accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting In our opinion: Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 29 March 2009 and of its Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of pro t for the period then ended: the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited in accordance the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 29 March We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements 2009: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited have been Committee Report to be audited have been properly prepared properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that speci c information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross referred from the results for the period section of the Directors Report.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not Deloitte LLP disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, UK We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement re ects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined 28 May 2009 Code speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the annual report.
