INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT We also report to you whether, in our opinion, We planned and performed our audit so as to INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO the information given in the Directors Report obtain all the information and explanations THE MEMBERS Of PENNON GROUP PLC is consistent with the financial statements.
In which we considered necessary in order to addition we report to you if, in our opinion, provide us with sufficient evidence to give We have audited the Group and parent the company has not kept proper accounting reasonable assurance that the financial company financial statements the financial records, if we have not received all the statements and the part of the Directors statements of Pennon Group Plc for the year information and explanations we require for remuneration report to be audited are free ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the our audit, or if information specified by law from material misstatement, whether caused by Consolidated income statement, the Group regarding the Directors remuneration and other fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming statement of recognised income and expense, transactions is not disclosed.
our opinion we also evaluated the overall the Company statement of recognised income adequacy of the presentation of information and expense, the Group balance sheet, the We review whether the Corporate Governance in the financial statements and the part of the Company balance sheet, the Group cash flow Statement reflects the companys compliance Directors remuneration report to be audited.
statement, the Company cash flow statement with the nine provisions of the Combined Code and the related notes.
These financial 2006 specified for our review by the Listing statements have been prepared under the Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and OPINION accounting policies set out therein.
We have we report if it does not.
We are not required to also audited the information in the Directors consider whether the boards statements on In our opinion: remuneration report that is described as having internal control cover all risks and controls, been audited.
or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
adopted by the European Union, of the RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March Of DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS We read other information contained in 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Annual Report and consider whether The Directors responsibilities for preparing the it is consistent with the audited financial Annual Report, the Directors remuneration the Company financial statements give statements.
The other information comprises report and the financial statements a true and fair view, in accordance with only the Directors report, the unaudited part in accordance with applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union as of the Directors remuneration report, the International Financial Reporting Standards applied in accordance with the provisions of corporate governance and internal control IFRS as adopted by the European Union the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the report and all of the other information are set out in the Statement of Directors Companys affairs as at 31 March 2009 and listed on the contents page.
of its cash flows for the year then ended: implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material the financial statements and the part of Our responsibility is to audit the financial inconsistencies with the financial statements.
the Directors remuneration report to statements and the part of the Directors Our responsibilities do not extend to any be audited have been properly prepared remuneration report to be audited in accordance other information.
in accordance with the Companies Act with relevant legal and regulatory requirements 1985 and, as regards the Group financial and International Standards on Auditing statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: UK and Ireland.
This report, including the BASIS Of AUDIT OPINION and opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance the information given in the Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and report is consistent with the financial International Standards on Auditing UK for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this statements.
and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test other purpose or to any other person to whom basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and this report is shown or into whose hands it may disclosures in the financial statements and the come save where expressly agreed by our prior part of the Directors remuneration report to be  LLP consent in writing.
It also includes an assessment of the Chartered Accountants and significant estimates and judgements made by Registered Auditors We report to you our opinion as to whether the directors in the preparation of the financial Bristol the financial statements give a true and fair statements, and of whether the accounting 25 June 2009 view and whether the financial statements and policies are appropriate to the groups and the part of the Directors remuneration report companys circumstances, consistently applied to be audited have been properly prepared in and adequately disclosed.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 53
