125 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Independent Auditors Report R to the Members of Premier Farnell plc We have audited the Company Financial Statements of Premier We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Farnell plc for the period ended 1 February 2009 which comprise Accounts and consider whether it is consistent with the audited the Company Balance Sheet, the Company Accounting Policies Company Financial Statements.
The other information comprises and the related notes.
These Company Financial Statements only the Chairmans Statement, the Business Review, the Directors have been prepared under the accounting policies set out Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the unaudited part of therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors the Remuneration Report, and the other items listed in the contents Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent We have reported separately on the Consolidated Financial misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Company Statements of Premier Farnell plc for the period ended Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any 1 February 2009. other information.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Basis of audit opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Directors Remuneration Report and the Company Financial Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Statements in accordance with applicable law and United Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Company Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration of Directors Responsibilities.
It also includes an assessment of the Our responsibility is to audit the Company Financial Statements significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the preparation of the Company Financial Statements, and of in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 information and explanations which we considered necessary of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other assurance that the Company Financial Statements and the part purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity consent in writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall We report to you our opinion as to whether the Company Financial adequacy of the presentation of information in the Company Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you, whether in our Opinion opinion, the information given in the Directors Report is consistent In our opinion: with the Company Financial Statements.
The information given in the Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view, the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted in the Business Review that is cross referenced from the Business Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs Review section of the Directors Report.
as at 1 February 2009: In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion the Company has the Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Company Financial Statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 17 April 2009
