Business Review Governance Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of QinetiQ Group plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements Basis of audit opinion the financial statements of QinetiQ Group plc for the year ending We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 31 March 2009 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial described as having been audited.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in and adequately disclosed.
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the members those matters we are required to state to them in an information and explanations which we considered necessary auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to assurance that the financial statements and the part of the anyone other than the Company and the Companys members Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law Opinion and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted In our opinion: by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on Groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its profit for the year page 64. then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with IAS Regulation: relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2009: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the parent company financial statements and the part of the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the reports of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Business Review that is cross-referred from the Business Review section of the KPMG Audit Plc Directors Report.
Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has London not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 21 May 2009 information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 57 65
