90-107 Governance R 3 25 10 8:42 AM Page 18 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS to the members of Randgold Resources Limited We have audited the accompanying financial statements of An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of Randgold Resources Limited the company which comprise accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the statement of financial position of the company as of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as 31 December 2009 and the statement of changes in equity evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
and cash flow statement for the year then ended and consolidated statement of financial position of the company We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is and its subsidiaries the group as of 31 December 2009 sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, opinion.
consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended and a summary OPINION of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the company Our report has been prepared pursuant to the requirements and the group as of 31 December 2009, the cash flows of of Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for the group and company and of the financial performance of no other purpose.
No other person is entitled to rely on this the group for the year then ended in accordance with report unless such a person is a person entitled to rely upon International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed by this report by virtue of and for the purpose of Article 110 of the European Union and with the requirements of Companies the Companies Jersey Law 1991 or has been expressly Jersey Law 1991. authorised to do so by our prior written consent.
Save as above, we do not accept responsibility for this report to any SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IFRS other person or for any other purpose and we hereby expressly As explained in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, disclaim any and all such liability.
the group, in addition to complying with its obligation to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE FINANCIAL IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also complied STATEMENTS with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The companys directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards true and fair view of the financial position of the group as of as endorsed by the European Union and with the requirements 31 December 2009, and of the cash flows and financial of Companies Jersey Law 1991. performance of the group for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards This responsibility includes: Designing, implementing and as issued by the IASB.
maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making REQUIREMENTS accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code which, for a listed UK AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITY incorporated company, are specified for our review by the Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Those the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and standards require that we comply with ethical requirements controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance corporate governance procedures or its risk and control whether the financial statements are free from material procedures.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors BDO LLP judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material Chartered Accountants misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditors London consider internal control relevant to the entitys preparation 15 March 2010 and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
and Wales with registered number OC305127 RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 107 Composite
