Independent auditors report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc We have audited the Group financial Opinion on financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are required statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for In our opinion the Group financial statements: to review: the year ended 31 December 2009 which Give a true and fair view of the state of the The Directors statement, set out on pages comprise the Group income statement, the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 16 and 17, in relation to going concern: and Group statement of comprehensive income, and of its profit and cash flows for the year the Group balance sheet, the Group statement The part of the Corporate governance then ended: of changes in equity, the Group cash flow statement relating to the Companys statement and the related notes.
The financial Have been properly prepared in accordance compliance with the nine provisions of reporting framework that has been applied in with IFRSs as adopted by the European the June 2008 Combined Code specified for their preparation is applicable law and Union: and our review.
International Financial Reporting Standards Have been prepared in accordance with the Other matter IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 We have reported separately on the parent Respective responsibilities of Directors and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
company financial statements of Reckitt and auditors Benckiser Group plc for the year ended Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as As explained more fully in the Statement of 31 December 2009 and on the information in issued by the IASB Directors responsibilities set out on page 16, the Directors Remuneration Report that is As explained in note 1 to the Group financial the Directors are responsible for the preparation described as having been audited.
statements, the Group in addition to complying of the Group financial statements and for being with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our adopted by the European Union, has also responsibility is to audit the Group financial applied IFRSs as issued by the International statements in accordance with applicable law Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor Accounting Standards Board IASB.
and International Standards on Auditing UK for and on behalf of and Ireland.
Those standards require us to In our opinion the Group financial statements  LLP comply with the Auditing Practices Boards comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Ethical Standards for Auditors.
London Opinion on other matter prescribed by the 15 March 2010 This report, including the opinions, has been Companies Act 2006 prepared for and only for the Companys In our opinion the information given in the Notes: members as a body in accordance with Chapter Report of the Directors for the financial year The maintenance and integrity of the Reckitt 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for which the Group financial statements Benckiser Group plc website is the for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving are prepared is consistent with the Group responsibility of the Directors: the work these opinions, accept or assume responsibility financial statements.
carried out by the auditors does not involve for any other purpose or to any other person to consideration of these matters and, Matters on which we are required to whom this report is shown or into whose hands accordingly, the auditors accept no report by exception it may come save where expressly agreed by responsibility for any changes that may have We have nothing to report in respect of our prior consent in writing.
occurred to the financial statements since the following: they were initially presented on the website.
Scope of the audit of the financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are statements Legislation in the United Kingdom governing required to report to you if, in our opinion: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the the preparation and dissemination of amounts and disclosures in the financial Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration financial statements may differ from statements sufficient to give reasonable specified by law are not made: or legislation in other jurisdictions.
assurance that the financial statements are free We have not received all the information and from material misstatement, whether caused by explanations we require for our audit.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
