Independent auditors report on the parent company financial statements to the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV Report on the company financial statements Opinion We have audited the accompanying parent company financial In our opinion, the parent company financial statements give a statements 2009 which are part of the financial statements of true and fair view of the financial position of Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier NV, Amsterdam, which comprise the parent company as at 31 December 2009 and of its result for the year then ended balance sheet as at 31 December 2009, the parent company profit in accordance with accounting practice generally accepted in and loss account for the year then ended, the parent company the United Kingdom and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands reconciliation of shareholders funds and the notes, as set out Civil Code.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Managements responsibility Pursuant to the legal requirement under 2:393 sub 5 part f of the Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation Netherlands Civil Code, we report, to the extent of our competence, of the parent company financial statements in accordance with that the Report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board accounting practice generally accepted in the United Kingdom is consistent with the company financial statements as required and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, and for the by 2:391 sub 4 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
preparation of the report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
This responsibility includes: designing, implementing Deloitte Accountants B. V. and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair J P M Hopmans presentation of the parent company financial statements that are Amsterdam free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: The Netherlands selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making 17 February 2010 accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the parent company financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law.
This law requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the parent company financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the parent company financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the parent company financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the parent company financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
182 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009
