Independent auditors report on the consolidated financial statements to the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV Report on the consolidated financial statements Opinion We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true statements 2009 which are part of the financial statements of and fair view of the financial position of Reed Elsevier NV as at Reed Elsevier NV, Amsterdam, which comprise the consolidated 31 December 2009, and of its result and its cash flows for the year income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting income, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the consolidated Standards as adopted by the European Union and with Part 9 of statement of financial position, the consolidated statement of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
changes in equity, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes, as set out in pages 166 to 177.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Pursuant to the legal requirement under 2:393 sub 5 part f of the Managements responsibility Netherlands Civil Code, we report, to the extent of our competence, Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation that the report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board is of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with consistent with the consolidated financial statements as required by International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 2:391 sub 4 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
European Union and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, and for the preparation of the report of the Supervisory Board Deloitte Accountants B. V. and the Executive Board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of J P M Hopmans the Netherlands Civil Code.
This responsibility includes: designing, Amsterdam implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the The Netherlands preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial 17 February 2010 statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law.
This law requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
178 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009
