Directors Report: Corporate Governance Auditors report To the Shareholders of Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements Regus plc S. A. set out on pages 41 to 84 give a true and fair view 26, Boulevard Royal of the consolidated financial position of Regus plc S. A. L-2449 Luxembourg as of December 31, 2009, and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash ows for the year Report of the Rviseurs dEntreprises on the consolidated then ended in accordance with International Financial financial statements Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Regus plc S. A. which comprise the consolidated balance Report on other legal and regulatory requirements sheet as at December 31, 2009 and the consolidated income The consolidated Directors report, which is the responsibility statement, consolidated statement of changes in equity and of the Board of Directors, is consistent with the consolidated consolidated cash ow statement for the year then ended, financial statements.
and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes as set out on pages 41 to 84.
Board of Directors responsibility for the consolidated financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and Luxembourg, 22 March 2010 fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards KPMG Audit S. r. l. as adopted by the European Union.
This responsibility Rviseurs dEntreprises includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of Thierry Ravasio consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Responsibility of the Rviseur dEntreprises Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing as adopted by the Institut des Rviseurs dEntreprises.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the judgement of the Rviseur dEntreprises, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the Rviseur dEntreprises considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
