Independent auditors' report to the members of Renishaw plc 23 We have audited the financial statements of Renishaw plc OPINION ON OThER MATTERS PRESCRIBED By ThE for the year ended 30 June 2009 set out on pages 24 to 52.
COMPANIES ACT 2006 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the In our opinion: preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as has been properly prepared in accordance with the adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework that has Companies Act 2006: and been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK the information given in the Directors Report for the financial Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with sections 495, 496 and 497 of the MATTERS ON WhICh WE ARE REQuIRED TO REPORT Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so By ExCEPTION that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for We have nothing to report in respect of the following: no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the if, in our opinion: company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not RESPECTIvE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND been received from branches not visited by us: or AuDITORS the parent company financial statements and the part of As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in statement set out on page 22, the directors are responsible agreement with the accounting records and returns: or for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable are not made: or law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
we have not received all the information and explanations we Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing require for our audit.
Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: SCOPE OF ThE AuDIT OF ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the directors statement, set out on page 19, in relation to A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements going concern: and is provided on the APBs web-site at www.
uk apb the part of the corporate governance statement as contained scope UKP.
in the Directors' corporate governance report relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2009 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: A C Campbell-Orde the group financial statements have been properly prepared in Senior Statutory Auditor accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: For and on behalf of the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted KPMG Audit Plc 100 Temple Street Accounting Practice: Registered Auditor Bristol Chartered Accountants BS1 6AG the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 29th July 2009 with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
