"BVEJUPST SFQPSU 5IF OEFQFOEFOU BVEJUPST SFQPSU UP UIF NFNCFST PG 3JHIUNPWF QMD 0QJOJPO PO PUIFS NBUUFST QSFTDSJCFE CZ UIF $PNQBOJFT ""DU We have audited the Group and parent Company financial In our opinion: statements the financial statements of Rightmove plc for the Ui vi iV, ii, iLi `i` year ended 31 December 2009 set out on pages 46 to 85."
The has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Act 2006: preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Uiv }ii iV, iviw V Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the year for which the financial statements are prepared is parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance consistent with the financial statements: and with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Uv }ii i i Viiii The report is made solely to the Companys members, as a out on pages 26 to 32 with respect to internal control and risk body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies management systems in relation to financial reporting Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might processes and about share capital structures is consistent with state to the Companys members those matters we are required the financial statements.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.. BUUFST PO XIJDI XF BSF SFRVJSFE UP SFQPSU CZ FYDFQUJPO To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or We have nothing to report in respect of the following: assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you the Companys members, for our audit work, for this report, or if, in our opinion: for the opinions we have formed.
U `i i VV}iV` iLiiiLi i 3FTQFDUJWF SFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT PG EJSFDUPST BOE BVEJUPST Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement received from branches not visited by us: or set out on page 32, the directors are responsible for the Ui i w V ii `i vi preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the agreement with the accounting records and returns: or financial statements in accordance with applicable law and UVi `Viv`iVii iVwi`L International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those are not made: or standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ui iiVii` iv `i i APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
require for our audit: or U i i Viii Liii i`L 4DPQF PG UIF BVEJU PG UIF OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT the Company.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Ui`iV ii]i }i]i 0QJOJPO PO OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT going concern: and In our opinion: Ui vi i i Viii }i Uiw V ii}i i `v ivi i 32 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
31 December 2009 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Ui w V ii iLiiii i` accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Ui i w V ii iLiii SJ Wardell Senior Statutory Auditor prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Chartered Accountants Act 2006: and Altius House Uiw V ii iLiii i` VV` Vi One North Fourth Street with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as Milton Keynes, MK9 1NE regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 45 Regulation.
26 February 2010 rightmove plc annual report 2009
