Governance Independent Auditors' Report to the members of Rotork p. l. c. We have audited the financial statements Opinion on financial statements the parent Company financial of Rotork p. l. c. for the year ended 31 In our opinion: statements and the part of the December 2009 set out on pages 46 to 90. the financial statements give a true and Directors' Remuneration Report to be The financial reporting framework that has fair view of the state of the Groups and audited are not in agreement with the been applied in the preparation of the of the parent Companys affairs as at accounting records and returns: or Group financial statements is applicable 31 December 2009 and of the Group's certain disclosures of directors' law and International Financial Reporting profit for the year then ended: remuneration specified by law are Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
the Group financial statements have not made: or The financial reporting framework that has been properly prepared in accordance we have not received all the been applied in the preparation of the with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: information and explanations we parent Company financial statements is the parent Company financial require for our audit: or applicable law and UK Accounting statements have been properly a Corporate Governance Statement Standards UK Generally Accepted prepared in accordance with UK has not been prepared by the Accounting Practice.
Practice: This report is made solely to the the financial statements have been Under the Listing Rules we are required Company's members, as a body, in prepared in accordance with the to review: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of requirements of the Companies Act the directors' statement, set out on the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work 2006: and, as regards the Group page 44, in relation to going concern: has been undertaken so that we might financial statements, Article 4 of the and state to the Company's members those IAS Regulation.
the part of the Corporate Governance matters we are required to state to them Statement on page 32 relating to the in an auditors report and for no other Opinion on other matters prescribed by Company's compliance with the nine purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted the Companies Act 2006 provisions of the June 2008 Combined by law, we do not accept or assume In our opinion: Code specified for our review.
responsibility to anyone other than the the part of the Directors' Remuneration Company and the Company's members, Report to be audited has been properly as a body, for our audit work, for this prepared in accordance with the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors' Respective responsibilities of directors Report for the financial year for which and auditors the financial statements are prepared As explained more fully in the Directors' is consistent with the financial Responsibilities Statement set out on page statements: and 44, the directors are responsible for the the information given in the Corporate preparation of the financial statements and Governance Statement set out on AC Campbell-Orde for being satisfied that they give a true and pages 32 to 36 with respect to internal Senior Statutory Auditor fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the control and risk management systems financial statements in accordance with in relation to financial reporting for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, applicable law and International Standards processes and about share capital Statutory Auditor on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those structures is consistent with the standards require us to comply with the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical 100 Temple Street Standards for Auditors.
Matters on which we are required to Bristol report by exception BS1 6AG Scope of the audit of the financial We have nothing to report in respect of the statements following: 1 March 2010 A description of the scope of an audit of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are financial statements is provided on the required to report to you if, in our opinion: APBs website at www.
uk apb adequate accounting records have not scope UKP.
been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 45
