Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc We have audited the group financial statements of SABMiller plc for Basis of audit opinion the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant income and expense and the related notes.
These group financial to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and out therein.
judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are We have reported separately on the parent company financial appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied statements of SABMiller plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 and adequately disclosed.
and on the information in the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and group financial statements are free from material misstatement, the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors of information in the group financial statements.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in In our opinion: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the group financial statements have been properly prepared purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by the IAS Regulation: and our prior consent in writing.
the information given in the directors report is consistent with We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial the group financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also  LLP report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors directors report is consistent with the group financial statements.
London The information given in the directors report includes that specific information presented in the business review and ordinary 1 June 2009 shareholding analyses that is cross referred from the principal activities and business review and the substantial shareholdings sections of the directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report, as listed on the contents page excluding the audited part of the remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Independent auditors report 67
