The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Independent auditors report to 105 the members of The Sage Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of The Sage Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2009 which Companies Act 2006 comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated In our opinion: statement of recognised income and expense, the Consolidated The information given in the Directors report for the financial balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement and the year for which the Group financial statements are prepared related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been is consistent with the Group financial statements: and applied in their preparation is applicable law and International The information given in the Corporate governance statement Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the set out on pages 43 to 48 with respect to internal control and European Union.
risk management systems and about share capital structures Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors is consistent with the financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors Matters on which we are required to report by exception responsibilities set out on page 48, the directors are We have nothing to report in respect of the following: responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in if, in our opinion: accordance with applicable law and International Standards Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to are not made: or comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards We have not received all the information and explanations we for Auditors.
require for our audit: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and A corporate governance statement has not been prepared by only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with the parent Company.
Sections 495 and 496 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other The directors statement, set out on page 48 in relation to person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it going concern: and may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent The part of the Corporate governance statement relating to in writing.
the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to We have reported separately on the parent Company give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are financial statements of The Sage Group plc for the year free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or ended 30 September 2009 and on the information in the error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements Richard Pollard Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion the Group financial statements: for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as Newcastle upon Tyne at 30 September 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the 17 December 2009 year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
