Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 15:14 Page 81 Independent Auditors Report 81 Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members Opinion on other matters prescribed by the of Serco Group plc Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Serco Group In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the the financial year for which the financial statements are Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement prepared is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Matters on which we are required to report by exception Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 36.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the law are not made: or Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so we have not received all the information and explanations that we might state to the Companys members those matters we require for our audit.
we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Company and the Companys members as a body, for our the Directors statement contained within the Corporate audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Governance Report in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they Other matter give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the We have reported separately on the parent Company Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law Financial Statements of Serco Group plc for the year ended and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
31 December 2009 and on the information in the Remuneration Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Report that is described as having been audited.
Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Nigel Mercer Senior Statutory Auditor reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting London, UK policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have 25 February 2010 been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on the Group Financial Statements In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
