Company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Severn Basis of audit opinion Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Balance Sheet, Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices and the related notes 1 to 19.
These parent company financial Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company out therein.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the We have reported separately on the group financial statements of preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 and on the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys information in the Directors remuneration report that is described circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in information and explanations which we considered necessary in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the assurance that the parent company financial statements are free companys members those matters we are required to state to them from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent anyone other than the company and the companys members as a company financial statements.
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, the parent company financial statements in accordance with in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the 31 March 2009: Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory the parent company financial statements.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Deloitte LLP We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the London, UK parent company financial statements have been properly prepared 28 May 2009 in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review and the Performance Reviews that are cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
104 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
