Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc We have audited the group financial statements of Severn Trent Plc We read the other information contained in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the as described in the contents section and consider whether it is Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance sheet, consistent with the audited group financial statements.
We consider the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated statement the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent of recognised income and expense and the related notes 1 to 41. misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial These group financial statements have been prepared under the statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information outside the Annual Report.
information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described Basis of audit opinion as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have reported separately on the parent company financial on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices statements of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March 2009.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the companys members those matters we are required to state to them group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to and adequately disclosed.
anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors assurance that the group financial statements and the part of the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material Directors Remuneration Report and the group financial statements misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
in accordance with applicable law and International Financial In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are the presentation of information in the group financial statements set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the group financial statements give a true and fair view, We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of statements give a true and fair view, whether the group financial the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the loss for the year then ended: Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the group financial statements have been properly prepared in whether the part of the directors remuneration report described as accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance IAS Regulation: with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is as having been audited has been properly prepared in consistent with the group financial statements.
The information accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and given in the Directors Report includes that specific information the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with presented in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives the group financial statements.
Review and the Performance Reviews that are cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
Deloitte LLP In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if London, UK information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and 28 May 2009 other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
54 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
