Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 63 Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Shire plc and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders equity, comprehensive income loss, cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 and the related Notes 1 to 36 together, the Financial Statements.
These Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Shire plc for the year ended December 31, 2009.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the Financial Statements are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing United Kingdom and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on the Financial Statements In our opinion the Financial Statements: present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Shire plc and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of its operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 that would be specified by United Kingdom law were the Company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
Opinion on other matters that would be prescribed by the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 were the Company incorporated in the United Kingdom In our opinion: the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by the Listing Rules We have nothing to report in respect of our duty under the Listing Rules to review: the Directors statement contained within the Financial Statements in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom February 26, 2010
