INDEPENDENT AUDITORSUK REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Smith & Nephewplc We have audited the group accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 38.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International  IFRSs as adopted bytheEuropeanUnion.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companysmembers as abody, forourauditwork, forthisreport,  formed.
 directorsand auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 76 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the group accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs EthicalStandards forAuditors.
Scope of the audit of the accounts An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the accounts sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made bythedirectors: oftheaccounts.
Opinion on accounts : give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit for the yearthenended: have beenproperlyprepared  as adopted bytheEuropeanUnion:and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribedby the Companies Act 2006 In our opinionthe information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for whichthe group accountsare prepared .
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Wehave  ofthefollowing: Underthe CompaniesAct , inouropinion:  bylawarenotmade: or wehave  werequireforouraudit.
Underthe ListingRules : the directorsstatement, set outonpage 42, :and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine  forourreview.
78 Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Separate Opinion in Relation to IFRSs As explained in Note 1 to the Group accounts, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also compiled with IFRS as issued by the International AccountingStandards Board.
In our opinion the group accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at  .
LeslieClifford Senior Statutory Auditor forandbehalf ofErnst & YoungLLPStatutory Auditor London 18March2010 79 Group Accounts
