Financial Statements 187 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of AstraZeneca PLC We have audited the Parent Company Scope of the audit of Matters on which we are required Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC the financial statements to report by exception for the year ended 31 December 2009 set A description of the scope of an audit of We have nothing to report in respect of out on pages 188 to 192.
The financial financial statements is provided on the APBs the following matters: reporting framework that has been applied website, frc.
in their preparation is applicable law and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Opinion on financial statements required to report to you if, in our opinion: Accepted Accounting Practice.
In our opinion, the Parent Company Financial Statements: Adequate accounting records have not This report is made solely to the Companys been kept by the Parent Company, or members, as a body, in accordance with Give a true and fair view of the returns adequate for our audit have not Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act state of the Companys affairs been received from branches not visited 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken as at 31 December 2009. by us.
so that we might state to the Companys Have been properly prepared in The Parent Company Financial members those matters we are required accordance with UK Generally Statements and the part of the Directors to state to them in an auditors report and Accepted Accounting Practice.
Remuneration Report to be audited are for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Have been prepared in accordance not in agreement with the accounting permitted by law, we do not accept or with the requirements of the records and returns: or assume responsibility to anyone other than Companies Act 2006.
Certain disclosures of Directors the Company and the Companys members, Remuneration specified by law are as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Opinion on other matters prescribed not made: or or for the opinions we have formed.
by the Companies Act 2006 We have not received all the information In our opinion: and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The part of the Directors Remuneration Other matters As explained more fully in the Directors Report to be audited has been properly We have reported separately on the Group Responsibilities Statement set out on page prepared in accordance with the Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC 122, the Directors are responsible for the Companies Act 2006. for the year ended 31 December 2009. preparation of the Parent Company Financial The information given in the Directors Statements and for being satisfied that they Report for the financial year for which Jimmy Daboo give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility the financial statements are prepared Senior Statutory Auditor is to audit the Parent Company Financial is consistent with the Parent Company Statements in accordance with applicable Financial Statements.
For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, law and International Standards on Auditing Statutory Auditor UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us Chartered Accountants to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards 8 Salisbury Square, London, EC4Y 8BB APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
28 January 2010 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
