45 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Independent auditors report to the members of Synergy Health plc Independent auditors report to the members We read the other information contained in the Annual Report of Synergy Health plc and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we statements the financial statements of Synergy Health plc become aware of any apparent misstatements or material for the year ended 29 March 2009 which comprise the Group inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities income statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance do not extend to any other information.
sheets, the Group cash ow statement, the Group statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
Basis of audit opinion These financial statements have been prepared under the We conducted our audit in accordance with International accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing information in the directors Remuneration report that is Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, described as having been audited.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. significant estimates and judgements made by the directors Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether to the Companys members those matters we are required to the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or disclosed.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other and the Group financial statements in accordance with irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Parent financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Company financial statements in accordance with applicable report to be audited.
law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of directors Opinion responsibilities on page 34.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in part of the directors Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the Groups affairs as at 29 March 2009 and of its profit for International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting statements and the part of the directors Remuneration report to Practice, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the 29 March 2009: Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors IAS Regulation: report is consistent with the financial statements.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has directors Remuneration report to be audited have been not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 1985: and information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
KPMG Audit Plc We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor, St Nicholas House, on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an 31 Park Row, Nottingham, NG1 6FQ opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance 4 June 2009 procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Financial statements and additional information
