Directors Report Directors Report Financial 95 Business Review Governance Statements Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc for Matters on which we are required to report by exception the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet and We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies the related Notes 1 to 19.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with by us: or Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent records and returns: or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
or for the opinions we have formed.
Other matter Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are for the year ended 31 December 2009. responsible for the preparation of the parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Colin Hudson Senior Statutory Auditor Scope of the audit of the financial statements for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements London, United Kingdom are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes 2 March 2010 an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
