FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Tesco PLC for the We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider 53 weeks ended 28 February 2009 which comprise the Group Income whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, The other information comprises only the Introduction, the Financial the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related highlights, Chairmans statement, Tesco at a glance, the Chief Executives notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the Q&A, the Report of the Directors, the Corporate governance statement, accounting policies set out therein.
the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and the Five year record.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the of Tesco PLC for the 53 weeks ended 28 February 2009 and on the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as other information.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as endorsed by the and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also consent in writing.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have Opinion been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and In our opinion: Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with IFRSs as endorsed by the European Union, of the state of the with the Group financial statements.
Groups affairs as at 28 February 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the 53 weeks then ended: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS is not disclosed.
Regulation: and the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the the Group financial statements.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial  LLP Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all London 1 May 2009 risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
com annualreport09 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
