Financial Statements 135 Company Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Tomkins plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the individual financial statements of Tomkins plc the Company for the year ended 2 January In our opinion: 2010 the Companys financial statements which comprise the part of the Remuneration Committee report to be the Companys balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 18. audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the These financial statements have been prepared in accordance Companies Act 2006: and with applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Companys financial statements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a are prepared is consistent with those financial statements.
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Matters on which we are required to report by exception that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the in our opinion: Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit adequate accounting records have not been kept by the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the Companys financial statements and the part of the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Remuneration Committee report required to be audited are Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: preparation of the Companys financial statements and for or being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Companys financial statements in certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by accordance with applicable law and International Standards on law are not made: or Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to we have not received all the information and explanations comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards we require for our audit.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the Companys financial statements We have reported separately on the consolidated financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and statements of Tomkins plc and its subsidiaries for the year disclosures in the Companys financial statements sufficient to ended 2 January 2010. give reasonable assurance that the Companys financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: John Murphy Senior Statutory Auditor the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP made by the Directors: and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom the overall presentation of the Companys financial statements.
26 February 2010 Opinion on the Companys financial statements In our opinion the Companys financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 2 January 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
