Governance 63 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Tomkins plc Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB We have audited the consolidated financial statements of As explained in note 2 to the Groups financial statements, the Tomkins plc and its subsidiaries together, the Group for the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to year ended 2 January 2010 the Groups financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, which comprise the consolidated income statement, the has also complied with IFRS as issued by the International consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Accounting Standards Board IASB.
consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated balance In our opinion the Groups financial statements comply with sheet, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted Act 2006 by the European Union.
In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a for the financial year for which the Groups financial body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the statements are prepared is consistent with those financial Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so statements.
that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Matters on which we are required to report by exception no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do We have nothing to report in respect of the following: not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors law are not made: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the we have not received all the information and explanations preparation of the Groups financial statements and for being we require for our audit.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: to audit the Groups financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK the Directors statement in relation to going concern set and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the out on page 28: and Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Companys statement relating to its compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code Scope of the audit of the Groups financial statements specified for our review.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Groups financial statements sufficient to give Other matter reasonable assurance that the Groups financial statements are We have reported separately on the individual financial free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or statements of Tomkins plc for the year ended 2 January 2010 error.
This includes an assessment of: and on the information in the Remuneration Committee report whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the that is described as having been audited.
Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Groups financial John Murphy Senior Statutory Auditor statements.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Opinion on the Groups financial statements London, United Kingdom In our opinion the Groups financial statements: 26 February 2010 give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 2 January 2010 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
