52 Independent auditors report to the members of United Business Media Limited We have audited the Group financial statements of United Business Media Limited for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and the terms of our letter of engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 54, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for the preparation of the Corporate Governance Statement which they have chosen to prepare.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In addition the Company has also instructed us to review whether: the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2008 Combined Code which, for a listed UK incorporated company, are specified for review by the Companys auditor by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
the directors statement on going concern which is specified for review by Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Jersey Law, 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
You have requested that we review: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 48 to 51 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code which for a listed UK incorporated company, are specified for review by the Companys auditor by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority: and the directors statement set out on page 54, in relation to going concern.
Other matters We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of United Business Media Limited for the year ended 31 December 2009 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited and has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation as described therein.
Ernst & Young LLP London 5 March 2010
