120 Independent auditors report to the members of United Business Media Limited We have audited the parent company financial statements of United Business Media Limited for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise Profit and Loss Account, the Balance Sheet, and the related notes 1 to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and the terms of our letter of engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 54, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report which they have chosen to prepare.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In addition the Company has also instructed us to review whether the section of the Directors Remuneration Report that has been described as audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation described therein.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report that has been described as audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation as described therein.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Jersey Law, 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matters We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of United Business Media Limited for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Ernst & Young LLP London 5 March 2010
