Auditors report Netherlands Independent auditors report to the shareholders An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence of Unilever N. V. about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors Report on the consolidated financial statements judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material We have audited the consolidated financial statements which are misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether part of the Annual Report 2009 of the Unilever Group for the year due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the consolidated auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys income statement, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial ow statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, statements in order to design audit procedures that are consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related notes appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of on pages 79 to 128 and 131 to 132. expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of We have reported separately on the company accounts of Unilever accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting N. V. for the year ended 31 December 2009. estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
Directors responsibility The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient presentation of the consolidated financial statements in and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Opinion Accounting Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true Netherlands Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report of and fair view of the financial position of the Unilever Group as at the Directors in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the 31 December 2009, and of its result and its cash ows for the year Netherlands Civil Code.
This responsibility includes: designing, then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the Standards as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial International Accounting Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in Report on other legal and regulatory requirements the circumstances.
Pursuant to the legal requirement under 2:393 sub 5 part f of the Netherlands Civil Code, we report, to the extent of our Auditors responsibility competence, that the Report of the Directors is consistent with the Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated consolidated financial statements as required by 2:391 sub 4 of financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit the Netherlands Civil Code.
in accordance with Dutch law.
This law requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
Rotterdam, The Netherlands, 2 March 2010  Accountants N. V. R A J Swaak RA Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 77 Financial statements Auditors report United Kingdom Independent auditors report to the members of Unilever Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB PLC on the consolidated financial stetements As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, We have audited the consolidated financial statements of the the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to Unilever Group for the year ended 31 December 2009 which apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, IASB.
balance sheet, consolidated cash ow statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as changes in equity, the related notes on pages 79 to 128, and issued by the IASB.
principal group companies and non-current investments on pages 131 and 132.
These consolidated financial statements have been Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act prepared under the accounting policies set out in note 1 on pages 2006 83 to 86.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied In our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors We have nothing to report in respect of the following: responsibilities set out on page 76, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to if, in our opinion: audit the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing are not made: or Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the shareholders of Unilever PLC as a body in accordance with Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume the Directors statement, set out on page responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to 76, in relation to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save going concern: and where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2008 Scope of the audit of financial statements Combined Code specified for our review.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Other matter assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have reported separately on the parent company accounts of misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2009 and on the assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and described as having been audited.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: Richard Sexton Senior Statutory Auditor give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at For and on behalf of  LLP 31 December 2009 and of its profit and cash ows for the year Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors then ended: London, United Kingdom have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 2 March 2010 adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
78 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
