Financial Statements 58 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Vedanta Resources plc We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Vedanta We read the other information contained in the Annual Report Resources plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 which as described in the contents section and consider whether it is comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance consistent with the audited Group Financial Statements.
We Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement consider the implications for our report if we become aware of of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 39.
These any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Group Financial Statements have been prepared under the the Group Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have reported separately on the parent company financial Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing statements of Vedanta Resources plc for the year ended Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, 31 March 2009. of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group Financial Statements and the part of the Directors This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgments made 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might by the directors in the preparation of the Group Financial state to the companys members those matters we are Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do and adequately disclosed.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors reasonable assurance that the Group Financial Statements and The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group Financial are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud Statements in accordance with applicable law and or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of information in the Group Financial Statements and the part of Directors Responsibilities.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial Statements in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements In our opinion: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and Financial Statements give a true and fair view, whether the of its pro t for the year then ended: Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in the Group Financial Statements have been properly accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and IAS Regulation and whether the part of the Directors Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: Remuneration Report described as having been audited has the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act as having been audited has been properly prepared in 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the information given in the Directors Report is consistent the Group Financial Statements.
The information given in the with the Group Financial Statements.
Directors Report includes that speci c information presented in the Business Review and Finance Review that is cross Deloitte LLP referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Report.
London 6 May 2009 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement re ects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
