co. uk AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COOKSON GROUP PLC We have audited the financial statements of Cookson Group plc the OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES Company for the year ended 31 December 2009 set out on pages ACT 2006 58 to 131.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied In our opinion: in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework that has 2006: and been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK the information given in the Directors Report for the financial Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in with the financial statements.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the EXCEPTION Companys members those matters we are required to state to We have nothing to report in respect of the following: them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, in our opinion: as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent have formed.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement the parent company financial statements and the part of set out on page 56, the Directors are responsible for the preparation the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give agreement with the accounting records and returns: or a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require are not made: or us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: provided on the APBs website at www.
uk apb scope UKP the Directors statement, set out on page 42, in relation to going OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS concern: and In our opinion: the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 32 to 37 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
31 December 2009 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the parent company financial statements have been properly Stephen Oxley Senior Statutory Auditor prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Practice: and Chartered Accountants the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with KPMG Audit Plc the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards 8 Salisbury Square the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
