Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 14 30 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Victrex plc We have audited the financial statements of Opinion on financial statements Matters on which we are required Victrex plc for the year ended 30 September In our opinion: to report by exception 2009 set out on pages 32 to 63.
The We have nothing to report in respect of the financial statements give a true and financial reporting framework that has been the following.
fair view of the state of the Group's and applied in their preparation is applicable law of the Parent Company's affairs as at 30 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are and International Financial Reporting September 2009 and of the Group's required to report to you if, in our opinion: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, profit for the year then ended: adequate accounting records have not as regards the Parent Company financial the Group financial statements have been been kept by the Parent Company, or statements, as applied in accordance with properly prepared in accordance with returns adequate for our audit have not the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU: been received from branches not visited the Parent Company financial statements This report is made solely to the Company's by us: or have been properly prepared in members, as a body, in accordance with the Parent Company financial statements accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the sections 495, 496 and 497 of the and the part of the Directors' EU and as applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has Remuneration Report to be audited are provisions of the Companies Act 2006 not in agreement with the accounting been undertaken so that we might state to and, records and returns: or the Company's members those matters we the financial statements have been are required to state to them in an auditors' certain disclosures of Directors' prepared in accordance with the report and for no other purpose.
To the remuneration specified by law are not requirements of the Companies Act 2006 fullest extent permitted by law, we do not made: or and, as regards the Group financial accept or assume responsibility to anyone we have not received all the information statements, Article 4 of the IAS other than the Company and the and explanations we require for our audit.
Company's members, as a body, for our Under the Listing Rules we are required to Opinion on other matters prescribed audit work, for this report, or for the review: by the Companies Act 2006 opinions we have formed.
the Directors' statement, set out on page In our opinion: 18, in relation to going concern and, Respective responsibilities of the part of the Directors' Remuneration the part of the Corporate Governance Directors and auditors Report to be audited has been properly Statement relating to the Company's As explained more fully in the Directors' prepared in accordance with the compliance with the nine provisions of Responsibilities Statement set out on page Companies Act 2006 and, the June 2008 Combined Code specified 29, the Directors are responsible for the the information given in the Directors' for our review.
preparation of the financial statements and Report for the financial year for which the for being satisfied that they give a true and financial statements are prepared is fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the consistent with the financial statements.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Nicola Quayle Senior Statutory standards require us to comply with the Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Auditing Practices Board's APB's Ethical Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Standards for Auditors.
Chartered Accountants Scope of the audit of the financial statements St James Square, A description of the scope of an audit of Manchester financial statements is provided on the M2 6DS APB's web-site at 7 December 2009 www.
