57 Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of The Weir Group PLC Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Group financial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 53 In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for weeks ended 1 January 2010 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance financial statements.
Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework Matters on which we are required to report by exception that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit the directors statement, set out on page 55, in relation to going concern: and work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the part of the Corporate governance report relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified Respective responsibilities of directors & auditors for our review.
As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities set out on page 56, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group Other matter financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of The Weir Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with Group PLC for the 53 weeks ended 1 January 2010 and on the information in the applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Hywel Ball Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Scope of the audit of the financial statements Glasgow An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the 9 March 2010 financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 1 January 2010 and of its profit for the 53 weeks then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
