110 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of The Weir Group PLC Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Company financial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the In our opinion: 53 weeks ended 1 January 2010 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared the related notes 1 to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Company This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance financial statements.
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Matters on which we are required to report by exception fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Respective responsibilities of directors & auditors the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities set out audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or on page 56, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements in accordance we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Other matter APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 53 weeks ended 1 January 2010.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Hywel Ball Senior statutory auditor financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Glasgow This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 9 March 2010 the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 1 January 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
