bACk TO CONTENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO ThE MEMbERS Of Wh SMITh PLC We have audited the individual Company financial Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 Act 2006 August 2009 which comprise the individual Company In our opinion the information given in the Directors Balance Sheet and the related Notes 1 to 9.
The financial Report for the financial year for which the financial reporting framework that has been applied in their statements are prepared is consistent with the individual preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Company financial statements.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following This report is made solely to the Companys members, matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us as a body, in accordance with sections 495, 496 and 497 to report to you if, in our opinion: of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been adequate accounting records have not been kept by undertaken so that we might state to the Companys the individual Company, or returns adequate for our members those matters we are required to state to them audit have not been received from branches not visited in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the by us: or fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the parent Company financial statements are not in assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company agreement with the accounting records and returns: or and the Companys members as a body, for our audit certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors explanations we require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the Other matter preparation of the individual Company financial We have reported separately on the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the individual August 2009 and on the information in the Remuneration Company financial statements in accordance with Report that is described as having been audited.
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor Standards for Auditors.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Scope of the audit of the financial statements London, United Kingdom An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 15 October 2009 and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the individual Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the individual Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the individual Companys affairs as at 31 August 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Wh Smith PLC 67
