bACk TO CONTENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO ThE MEMbERS Of Wh SMITh PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Separate opinion in relation to IfRSs as issued by the IASb WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2009 which As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group the Group in addition to complying with its legal Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the the Group Reconciliation of Movements in Equity and the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable In our opinion the Group financial statements comply law and International Financial Reporting Standards with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies This report is made solely to the Companys members, Act 2006 as a body, in accordance with sections 495 and 496 In our opinion: of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to undertaken so that we might state to the Companys be audited has been properly prepared in accordance members those matters we are required to state to them with the Companies Act 2006: and in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the the information given in the Directors Report for fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the financial year for which the financial statements assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company are prepared is consistent with the Group financial and the Companys members as a body, for our audit statements.
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We have nothing to report in respect of the following: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied to you if, in our opinion: that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with be audited is not in agreement with the accounting applicable law and International Standards on Auditing records and returns: or UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply certain disclosures of directors remuneration with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical specified by law are not made: or Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to the directors statement contained within the give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Directors Report and Business Review in relation are free from material misstatement, whether caused by to going concern: and fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the part of the Corporate Governance Statement the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups relating to the Companys compliance with the nine circumstances and have been consistently applied and provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant for our review.
accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent Company Opinion on financial statements financial statements of WH Smith PLC for the year In our opinion the Group financial statements: ended 31 August 2009. give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 August 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor have been properly prepared in accordance with for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors have been prepared in accordance with the London, United Kingdom requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and 15 October 2009 Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Wh Smith PLC 35
