46 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial We read the other information contained in the Annual report and statements the financial statements of Wm Morrison Supermarkets financial statements and consider whether it is consistent with PLC for the 52 weeks ended 1 February 2009 which comprise the the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated and Parent for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements Company balance sheets, the Consolidated cash flow statement, or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
These financial statements have been prepared Basis of audit opinion under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the information in the Directors remuneration report that is on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements members those matters we are required to state to them in an made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as adequately disclosed.
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Group Annual assurance that the financial statements and the part of the report and financial statements in accordance with applicable law Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
by the EU, and for preparing the Parent Company financial In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the statements and the Directors remuneration report in accordance presentation of information in the financial statements and the part with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Opinion Directors responsibilities on page 45.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Groups affairs as at 1 February 2009 and of its profit for the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have IAS Regulation: been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of information given in the Directors report and business review the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 1 February 2009: is consistent with the financial statements.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the information given in the Directors report and business review information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration is consistent with the financial statements.
and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects Chartered Accountants the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Registered Auditor Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Leeds Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal 11 March 2009 control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
