Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 65 Independent Auditors Report to the members of WS Atkins plc We have audited the Group and Parent We report to you our opinion as to We review whether the Corporate Company Financial Statements the whether the Financial Statements give Governance Report reflects the Financial Statements of WS Atkins plc a true and fair view and whether the Companys compliance with the nine for the year ended 31 March 2009 Financial Statements and the part of the provisions of the Combined Code 2006 which comprise the Consolidated Directors Remuneration Report to be specified for our review by the Listing Income Statement, the Consolidated audited have been properly prepared in Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and Parent Company Balance Sheets, accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and we report if it does not.
We are not the Consolidated and Parent Company and, as regards the Group Financial required to consider whether the Boards Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
statements on internal control cover all and Parent Company Statements of We also report to you whether in our risks and controls, or form an opinion on Recognised Income and Expense and the opinion the information given in the the effectiveness of the Groups corporate related notes.
These Financial Statements Directors Report is consistent with the governance procedures or its risk and have been prepared under the accounting Financial Statements.
We have also given in the Directors Report includes audited the information in the Directors that specific information presented in We read other information contained in Remuneration Report that is described the Chairmans Statement, the Chief the Annual Report and consider whether as having been audited.
Executives Statement, the Human it is consistent with the audited Financial Resources Review, the Business Review Statements.
The other information Respective responsibilities and the Corporate Responsibility Review comprises only the information listed on of directors and auditors that is cross-referred from the Business the contents page under the headings The directors responsibilities for preparing Review section of the Directors Report.
Introduction, Reviews, Governance the Annual Report, the Directors excluding the audited part of the Remuneration Report and the Financial In addition we report to you if, in our Directors Remuneration Report, Statements in accordance with applicable opinion, the Company has not kept Five-Year Summary and Investor law and International Financial Reporting proper accounting records, if we have Information.
We consider the implications Standards IFRSs as adopted by the not received all the information and for our report if we become aware of European Union are set out in the explanations we require for our audit, or any apparent misstatements or material Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
if information specified by law regarding inconsistencies with the Financial directors remuneration and other Statements.
Our responsibilities do Our responsibility is to audit the Financial transactions is not disclosed.
not extend to any other information.
Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 66 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of WS Atkins plc Continued Basis of audit opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance In our opinion: with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing the Group Financial Statements give a Practices Board.
An audit includes true and fair view, in accordance with examination, on a test basis, of evidence IFRSs as adopted by the European relevant to the amounts and disclosures in Union, of the state of the Groups affairs the Financial Statements and the part of as at 31 March 2009 and of its profit the Directors Remuneration Report to be and cash flows for the year then ended.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements the Parent Company Financial made by the directors in the preparation Statements give a true and fair view, of the Financial Statements, and of in accordance with IFRSs as adopted whether the accounting policies are by the European Union as applied in appropriate to the Groups and accordance with the provisions of the Companys circumstances, consistently Companies Act 1985, of the state applied and adequately disclosed.
of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2009 and cash flows We planned and performed our audit for the year then ended.
so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered the Financial Statements and the part necessary in order to provide us with of the Directors Remuneration Report sufficient evidence to give reasonable to be audited have been properly assurance that the Financial Statements prepared in accordance with the and the part of the Directors Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Remuneration Report to be audited are Group Financial Statements, Article 4 free from material misstatement, whether of the IAS Regulation.
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also the information given in the evaluated the overall adequacy of the Directors Report is consistent with presentation of information in the the Financial Statements.
Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 16 June 2009 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Financial Statements Financial Statements 68 Consolidated Income Statement 69 Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense 70 Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets 71 Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements 72 Notes to the Financial Statements 118 Five-Year Summary
