Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 131 Independent Auditors report to the members of Xstrata plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Xstrata plc for the Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Statement of Cash Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Flows, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group Statement in our opinion: of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 37.
The financial certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs made: or as adopted by the European Union.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in for our audit.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the directors statement, set out on page 107, in relation to going Company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent concern: and permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the other than the Company and the Company's members as a body, for Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Combined Code specified for our review.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Other matter As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements on page 130, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the of Xstrata plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 and on the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements having been audited.
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Mirco Bardella Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Scope of the audit and the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures London, United Kingdom in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 2 March 2010 financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall The maintenance and integrity of the Xstrata plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does presentation of the financial statements.
not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors Opinion on financial statements accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the In our opinion the Group financial statements: financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate governance statement as set out on pages 110 and 111 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
