43 Report of independent auditor We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the To the Members of Helical Bar plc Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined We have audited the Group and Company financial statements the Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial financial statements of Helical Bar plc for the year ended Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required 31 March 2009 which comprise the principal accounting policies, to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control the Consolidated Income Statement, the Group and Company balance cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness sheets, the Group and Company cash flow statements, the Group of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and and Company statements of recognised income and expense and control procedures.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited We read other information contained in the Annual Report and the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
described as having been audited.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, the business review, the Groups approach This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in statement, the portfolio statistics, the property portfolio, the performance accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit and risk statement, the financial review, the corporate responsibility work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys statement, the details of the board and senior management, the members those matters we are required to state to them in an directors report, the corporate governance report and the un-audited auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent part of the directors remuneration report.
We consider the implications permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union are set part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report the financial statements and the part of the Directors includes that specific information presented in the business review Remuneration Report to be audited.
that is cross-referred to in the principle activities section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009 Opinion 44 In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its loss for the year then ended: the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2009: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and, the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs As explained in the notes to the Group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its loss for the year then ended.
Grant Thornton UK LLP Registered Auditors Chartered Accountants London 19 June 2009 Independent auditors report Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009
