Independent Auditors Report to the Members of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year Basis of Audit Opinion ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with International Income Statement, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Cash Flow Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Statement, and the related notes 1 to 20.
These financial of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the statements have been prepared under the accounting policies financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the set out therein.
significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for information and explanations which we considered necessary in no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable not accept or assume responsibility to any one other than the assurance that the financial statements are free from material Company and Companys members as a body, for our audit misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors statements.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009, including the Opinion financial statements which are required to be prepared in In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, accordance with applicable Guernsey law and with International in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European adopted by the European Union of the state of affairs of the Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Group as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in the Companies Guernsey Law 2008. accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Guernsey Law 2008.
We also report to you if, in our opinion the Company has Ernst & Young LLP not kept proper accounting records, if the Companys financial Guernsey statements are not in agreement with the accounting records, or Channel Islands if we have not received all the information and explanations we 29 March 2010 require for our audit.
We read other information contained in the Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the Company Summary, Financial and Property Highlights, Performance Summary, Chairmans Statement, Investment Management Team, Managers Review, Portfolio Statistics, Property Portfolio, Board of Directors, Report of the Directors, Directors Responsibility Statement, Notice of Annual General Meeting, Shareholder Information and Corporate Information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 22
