INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the Members of Absolute Return Trust Limited We have audited the Companys Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2009 which comprise the Income Statement, the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the related Notes 1 to 23.
These Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable Guernsey law as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, the Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the Audited Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the Summary Information, Chairmans Statement, Investment Advisors Report, Board Members, Directors Report, Investment Policy, Top Ten Holdings, Portfolio Statement, Responsibility Statement, Management and Administration and Glossary of Investment Strategies.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Opinion In our opinion the Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st March 2009 and of its loss for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Ernst & Young LLP Guernsey, Channel Islands 20th July 2009 Note The maintenance and integrity of the Absolute Return Trust Limited website is the responsibility of the Directors: work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
