52 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Independent auditors report We have audited the group and parent Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report company financial statements the financial to you whether in our opinion the information statements of Alliance Trust plc for the given in the Directors Report is consistent with year ended 31 January 2009 which comprise the financial statements.
the Group and Parent Company Income In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, Statements, the Group and Parent Company the company has not kept proper accounting Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company records, if we have not received all the Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent information and explanations we require for Company Statements of Recognised Income our audit, or if information specified by law and Expense, and the related notes.
These regarding directors remuneration and other financial statements have been prepared under transactions is not disclosed.
the accounting policies set out therein.
We have We review whether the Corporate Governance also audited the information in the Directors Statement reflects the companys compliance Remuneration Report that is described as having with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined been audited.
Code specified for our review by the Listing This report is made solely to the companys Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and members, as a body, in accordance with section we report if it does not.
We are not required 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit to consider whether the boards statements work has been undertaken so that we might on internal control cover all risks and controls, state to the companys members those matters or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the we are required to state to them in an auditors groups corporate governance procedures or its report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest risk and control procedures.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or We read the other information contained assume responsibility to anyone other than the in the Annual Report and consider whether company and the companys members as a it is consistent with the audited financial body, for our audit work, for this report, or for statements.
We consider the implications for the opinions we have formed.
our report if we become aware of any apparent Respective responsibilities of directors misstatements or material inconsistencies with and auditors the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Basis of audit opinion Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International We conducted our audit in accordance with Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted International Standards on Auditing UK and by the EU are set out in the Statement of Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Our responsibility is to audit the financial disclosures in the financial statements and the statements and the part of the Directors part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Remuneration Report to be audited in be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory significant estimates and judgments made by requirements and International Standards on the directors in the preparation of the financial Auditing UK and Ireland.
statements, and of whether the accounting We report to you our opinion as to whether policies are appropriate to the groups and the financial statements give a true and fair companys circumstances, consistently applied view and whether the financial statements and and adequately disclosed.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report We planned and performed our audit so as to be audited have been properly prepared to obtain all the information and explanations in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 which we considered necessary in order to and, as regards the group financial statements, report front amends.
indd 52 20 4 09 12:51:45 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 53 provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the groups and the parent companys affairs as at 31 January 2009 and of the groups and the parent companys loss for the year then ended: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Edinburgh 17 April 2009 report front amends.
