Report of the Independent Auditor to the members of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc We have audited the Group and Companys financial the parent companys financial statements have been statements of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc for the year properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by ended 31 December 2009, which comprise the Consolidated the European Union and as applied in accordance with the Income Statement, Group and Company Statements of provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Changes in Equity, Group and Company Balance Sheets, Group and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 21.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as their preparation is applicable law and International Financial regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Regulation.
Union and, as regards to the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Companies Act 2006.
Act 2006 In our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3, Part 16 of the Companies the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we audited has been property prepared in accordance with the might state to the Companys members those matters we are Companies Act 2006: required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not the information given in the Directors Report for the accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the financial year for which the financial statements are Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the information given in the Corporate Governance Respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors statement in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 in the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Disclosure Rule and Transparency Rules sourcebook issued Responsibilities on page 30, the Directors are responsible for by the Financial Services Authority information about the preparation of the financial statements and for being internal control and risk management systems in relation satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to financial reporting processes and about share capital to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable structures is consistent with the financial statements.
law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Matters on which we are required to report by Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
exception Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Scope of the audit of the financial statements if, in our opinion: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give adequate accounting records have not been kept or returns reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free adequate for our audit have not been received from from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
branches not visited by us: or This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and the parent companys financial statements and the part of have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates agreement with the accounting records and returns: or made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Groups financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2009 31 Report of the Independent Auditor continued to the members of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement on page 20 in relation to going concern: and.
the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Andrew McIntyre Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 18 February 2010 32 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
