BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BLUECREST ALLBLUE FUND LIMITED We have audited the companys financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of Changes in Net Assets Attributable to Shareholders, the Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 15.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor The directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable Guernsey law as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if the companys financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises About the Company, Directors, Administration and Company Secretary, Chairmans Statement, Report by the Manager of All Blue Limited, Management Report, Report of the Directors, Schedule of Investments, Shareholder Information and Directors and Service Providers.
We consider the implications for our report if we became aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
32 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BLUECREST ALLBLUE FUND LIMITED continued We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31 December 2009 and of its results for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Ernst & Young LLP Guernsey, Channel Islands A J Offen Partner 15 April 2010 33
