ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 56 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BODYCOTE PLC We have audited the group financial statements of Bodycote plc for OPINION ON OTHER MATTER PRESCRIBED the year ended 31 December 2009, which comprise the Consolidated BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated In our opinion: Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised the part of the Board Report on Remuneration to be audited Income and Expense, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the Statement of Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 30.
Act 2006: and The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the information given in the Directors Report for the financial preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We have also with the group financial statements.
audited the information in the Board Report on Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We have nothing to report in respect of the following: in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in our opinion: in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone by law are not made: or other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for we have not received all the information and explanations our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial the Directors statement contained within the Group Review statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
in relation to going concern: and Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
OTHER MATTER SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have reported separately on the parent company financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures statements of Bodycote plc for the year ended 31 December 2009. in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Sharon Fraser, Senior Statutory Auditor Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Manchester, UK In our opinion the group financial statements: 25 February 2010 give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
56 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS
