DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2009 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED We have audited the financial statements the financial Basis of audit opinion statements of Dexion Absolute Limited the Company for We conducted our audit in accordance with International the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Changes in a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Shareholders Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an the related notes on pages 29 to 46.
These financial assessment of the significant estimates and judgements statements have been prepared under the accounting made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial policies set out therein.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a applied and adequately disclosed.
body, in accordance with section 262 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the so that we might state to the Companys members those information and explanations which we considered matters we are required to state to them in an auditors necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or to anyone other than the Company and the Companys other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the opinions we have formed.
information in the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and Opinion auditors In our opinion the financial statements: The Directors responsibilities for preparing the financial give a true and fair view of the financial position of the statements which give a true and fair view and are in Company as at 31 December 2009 and of its financial accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards performance and its cashflows for the year then ended: IFRS and are in compliance with applicable Guernsey law are in accordance with International Financial are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibility in Reporting Standards IFRS : and respect of the Financial Statements on page 23. comply with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Steven D Stormonth and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
For and on behalf of KPMG Channel Islands Limited Chartered Accountants We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 16 April 2010 statements give a true and fair view, are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and comply with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We read the other information accompanying the financial statements and consider whether it is consistent with those statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
