Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we We have audited the financial statements of Dunedin report if it does not.
Income Growth Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 31 We are not required to consider whether the Boards January 2009 which comprise the Income Statement, the statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or Balance Sheet, the Reconciliation of Movements in form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys Shareholders Funds, the Cash Flow Statement and the corporate governance procedures or its risk and control related notes.
These financial statements have been procedures.
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors We read the other information contained in the Annual Remuneration Report that is described as having been Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are Basis of Audit Opinion required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do We conducted our audit in accordance with International not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and formed.
disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, statements in accordance with applicable law and UK consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Responsibilities on page 27. information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also and Ireland.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Opinion Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We In our opinion: also report to you whether in our opinion the information the financial statements give a true and fair view, in given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting statements.
The information given in the Directors Report Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 includes that specific information presented in the Corporate January 2009 and of its loss for the year then ended: Summary, Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review the financial statements and the part of the Directors that is cross referenced from the business review section of Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the Directors Report.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company with the financial statements.
has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for KPMG Audit Plc our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Chartered Accountants directors remuneration and other transactions is not Registered Auditor disclosed.
Edinburgh 31 March 2009 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 29
