Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc We have audited the financial statements of Edinburgh Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules is consistent with Dragon Trust plc for the period ended 31 August 2009 set the financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law Matters on which we are required to report by exception and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Accounting Practice.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a you if, in our opinion: body, in accordance with sections 495, 496 and 497 of the adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so adequate for our audit have not been received from that we might state to the company's members those branches not visited by us: or matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' the financial statements and the part of the Directors' report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility with the accounting records and returns: or to anyone other than the company and the company's certain disclosures of Directors' remuneration specified by members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for law are not made: or the opinions we have formed.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors' Responsibilities Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Statement set out on page 32, the Directors are responsible the Directors' statement, set out on page 30, in relation to for the preparation of the financial statements and for being going concern: and satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to responsibility is to audit the financial statements in the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the accordance with applicable law and International Standards June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board's APB's Ethical Richard Hinton Senior Statutory Auditor Standards for Auditors.
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Scope of the audit of the financial statements Edinburgh A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB's web-site at 5 November 2009 www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 31 August 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Directors' Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the corporate governance statement pursuant to rules 7.2.
6 in the 34 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc
