F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 47 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Independent Auditors Report to the Members of F&C Asset Management plc We have audited the financial statements of F&C Asset Matters on which we are required to report by Management plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 exception set out on pages 48 to 123 and 126 to 138.
The financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: reporting framework that has been applied in the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report preparation of the group financial statements is applicable to you if, in our opinion: law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework adequate accounting records have not been kept by the that has been applied in the preparation of the parent parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have company financial statements is applicable law and UK not been received from branches not visited by us: or Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting the parent company financial statements and the part of Practice.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not This report is made solely to the companys members, as a in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken by law are not made: or so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors we have not received all the information and report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent explanations we require for our audit.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, as a body, for this report, or for the the directors statement, set out on page 33, in relation opinions we have formed.
to going concern: and the part of the Directors Report on Corporate Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Governance relating to the companys compliance with As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code Statement set out on page 46, the directors are specified for our review.
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Simon Pashby Senior Statutory Auditor APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Scope of the audit of the financial statements Chartered Accountants A description of the scope of an audit of financial Edinburgh statements is provided on the APBs web-site at 31 March 2010 www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
