Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC We have audited the financial statements of Fidelity OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY European Values PLC for the year ended 31 December THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 2009 which comprise the income statement, the In our opinion: reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be balance sheet, the cash flow statement and the related audited has been properly prepared in accordance notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been with the Companies Act 2006: applied in their preparation is applicable law and United the information given in the Directors Report for the Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom financial year for which the financial statements are Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of REPORT BY EXCEPTION the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been We have nothing to report in respect of the following: undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the report to you if, in our opinion: fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company adequate accounting records have not been kept, and the Companys members as a body, for our audit or returns adequate for our audit have not been work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS Remuneration Report to be audited are not in AND AUDITOR agreement with the accounting records and returns: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors or Responsibilities on page 24, the Directors are certain disclosures of Directors remuneration responsible for the preparation of the financial specified by law are not made: statements and for being satisfied that they give a true we have not received all the information and and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial explanations we require for our audit.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Directors statement, on page 27 in relation to going concern: and SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL the part of the Corporate Governance Statement STATEMENTS relating to the Companys compliance with the nine A description of the scope of an audit of financial provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code statements is provided on the APBs website at specified for our review.
uk apb scope UKP Marcus Swales OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion the financial statements: for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys London affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its net return 5 March 2010 for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 33
