214665 Finsbury WWP pp29-pp36 6 15 09 3:27 PM Page 31 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 31 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC We have audited the financial statements of Finsbury We review whether the Corporate Governance statement Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC for the year ended reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of 31 March 2009, which comprise the Income Statement, the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report Sheet, Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 20. if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the These financial statements have been prepared under the Boards statements on internal controls cover all risks and accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a We read other information contained in the Annual Report and body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might statements.
The other information comprises only: Who are state to the Companys members those matters we are we?
Why Invest in the Pharmaceutical Sector?
required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no Performance Summary, Chairmans Statement, Your Board, A other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Special Relationship, Review of Investments, Champions of not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Innovation, the Portfolio, Analysis of the Portfolio, Report of the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Directors Incorporating the Business Review, the Statement of audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Directors Responsibilities, Corporate Governance, Shareholder Analysis, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF Report, the Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS Companys Articles of Association, Notice of the Annual The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, General Meeting, Alliance Trust Savings Limited and Capita the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial Registrars Share Dealing Service, Glossary, Company statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law Information and Disability Act.
We consider the implications for and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in We conducted our audit in accordance with International accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the statements give a true and fair view, the financial statements financial statements and the part of the Directors and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made Companies Act 1985 and the information given in the Report by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, of the Directors is consistent with the financial statements.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not disclosed.
kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration information and explanations which we considered necessary and other transactions is not disclosed.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give 214665 Finsbury WWP pp29-pp36 6 15 09 3:27 PM Page 32 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 32 Independent Auditors Report continued reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
OPINION In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its return for the year then ended: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006 as in force from time to time: and the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 11 June 2009
