INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO p. l. c. We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of British Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2009 In our opinion: which comprise the Balance sheet and the notes on the accounts.
the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the Parent Company financial statements are prepared Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Responsibility of Directors statement set out on page 105, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of Matters on which we are required to report by exception the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical from branches not visited by us: or Standards for Auditors.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 the accounting records and returns: or of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown are not made: or or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by we have not received all the information and explanations we our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matters An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2009. the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made for and on behalf of  LLP by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: 24 February 2010 give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
196 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Financial statements and other information
