68 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Intermediate Capital Group PLC We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements Basis of audit opinion the financial statements of Intermediate Capital Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the Consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Statements of on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Recognised Income and Expense, the Group and Parent Company An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of Statements and the related notes 1 to 28.
These financial statements the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether Report that is described as having been audited.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys information and explanations which we considered necessary in order members those matters we are required to state to them in an to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Report to be audited.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Opinion Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting In our opinion: Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in f the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with its loss for the year then ended: relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
f the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 31 March 2009: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the f the financial statements and the part of the Directors IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and includes that specific information presented in the Business Review that is cross referred from the Directors Report.
f the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has financial statements.
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects Deloitte LLP the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the London, United Kingdom Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not 9 June 2009 required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
