Independent auditors statement to the members of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc We have examined the summary financial We conducted our work in accordance with Respective responsibilities of directors statement for the year ended 30 June 2009 which and auditors bulletin 2008 3 issued by the Auditing Practices comprises the Summary Consolidated Income The directors are responsible for preparing Board.
Our report on the Companys full annual Statement, Summary Consolidated Statement the Annual Review in accordance with applicable financial statements describes the basis of our of Recognised Income and Expense, Summary United Kingdom law.
audit opinions on those financial statements, Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Summary the Directors Report and the Directors Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Note 1, Remuneration Report.
on the consistency of the summary financial Summary Directors Report and Summary statement within the Annual Review with the Opinion Directors Remuneration Report.
full annual financial statements, the Directors In our opinion, the summary financial statement This report is made solely to the Companys Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, is consistent with the full annual financial members, as a body, in accordance with section and its compliance with the relevant requirements statements, the Directors Report and the 428 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our work has of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Report on Directors Remuneration of British been undertaken so that we might state to the regulations made thereunder.
Sky Broadcasting Group plc for the year ended Companys members those matters we are 30 June 2009 and complies with the applicable We also read the other information contained in required to state to them in an auditors report requirements of section 428 of the Companies the Annual Review as described in the contents and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
section, and consider the implications for our permitted by law, we do not accept or assume report if we become aware of any apparent Deloitte LLP responsibility to anyone other than the Company misstatements or material inconsistencies with Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors and the Companys members as a body, for our the summary financial statement.
London, United Kingdom audit work, for this report, for our audit report, 29 July 2009 or for the opinions we have formed.
52 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009
