International Public Partnerships Limited Independent Auditors Report to the members of International Public Partnerships Limited formerly Babcock & Brown Public Partnerships Limited We have audited the financial statements of International Public Partnerships Limited the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 39.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 262 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by Law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued and adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board and applicable Guernsey Law are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant Guernsey legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and are properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
We also report if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Group and Company has not kept proper accounting records or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We are not required to review any Corporate Governance disclosures required by The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority as the Company has availed itself of an exemption, as an overseas Company, from the requirement to publish a statement of compliance with The Combined Code.
38 International Public Partnerships Limited Independent Auditors Report to the members of International Public Partnerships Limited formerly Babcock & Brown Public Partnerships Limited continued We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as issued and adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of the Groups profit for the year to 31 December 2009 and have been properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants St Peter Port, Guernsey 7 April 2010 39
