Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Independent Auditors Report to the members of Investec plc We have audited the group and parent company financial statements the financial statements of Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the combined consolidated income statements, the combined consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the combined consolidated cash ow statement, the combined consolidated statement of total recognised income and expense, the information in the Risk Management Report contained in the group annual report that has been described as audited and the related notes 1 to 51.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, and whether in addition, the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement re ects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the information contained in the Risk Management Report, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Operating and Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements, and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
238 Annual report 2009 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Independent Auditors Report to the members of Investec plc Opinion In our opinion: The group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its pro t for the year then ended: The group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: The parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2009: The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and The information given in the directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs As explained in the accounting policies of the group financial statements, the group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its pro t for the year then ended.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 15 June 2009 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Investec plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Annual report 2009 239 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Independent Auditors Report to the members of Investec Limited We have audited the group annual financial statements of Investec Limited, which comprise the Directors Report, the combined consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2009, the combined consolidated income statement, the combined consolidated statement of total recognised income and expenses and combined consolidated cash ow statement for the year then ended, a summary of signi cant accounting policies and other explanatory notes, as set out on pages 229 to 319, the separate annual financial statements of Investec Limited, which comprise the separate balance sheet as at 31 March 2009, the separate income statement, the separate statement of changes in equity for the year then ended, a summary of signi cant accounting policies and other explanatory notes, as set out on pages 316 to 319 and the information in the Risk Management Report and Directors Remuneration Report that is marked as audited.
Directors responsibility for the financial statements The companys directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and in the manner required by the South African Companies Act of 1973.
This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suf cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated and separate financial position of Investec Limited as of 31 March 2009 and its consolidated and separate financial performance and consolidated cash ows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and in the manner required by the South African Companies Act of 1973.
Registered Auditors Wanderers Of ce Park 52 Corlett Drive Sandton 15 June 2009 240 Annual report 2009
