Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The BSS Group plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of The become aware of any apparent misstatements or material BSS Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise inconsistencies with the Parent Company financial statements.
Our the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Accounting Policies and the responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
These Parent Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We Basis of audit opinion have also audited the information in the Report of the Remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Committee that is described as having been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Parent Company The BSS Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009. financial statements and the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements, and of Report of the Remuneration Committee, and the Parent Company whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Directors Responsibilities.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial assurance that the Parent Company financial statements and the statements and the part of the Report of the Remuneration part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited Committee to be audited, in accordance with relevant legal and are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Parent prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in Company financial statements and the part of the Report of the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for Remuneration Committee to be audited.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person Opinion to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come In our opinion: save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report 31 March 2009: of the Remuneration Committee to be audited, have been properly the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited have been report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: Report of the Directors is consistent with the Parent Company and financial statements.
The information given in the Report of the the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent Directors includes that specific information presented in the with the Parent Company financial statements.
Chairmans Statement, the Business Review, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report, the Key Performance Indicators, the Principle Risks and Uncertainties Statement and the Financial Review that are cross referred from the Business Review section of  LLP the Report of the Directors.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors East Midlands In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has 27 May 2009 not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Report of the Directors, the Chairmans Statement, the Business Review, the Financial Review, the Principal Risks and Uncertainties, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report, the Combined Code Principles of Good Governance Statement, the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the unaudited part of Report of the Remuneration Committee, and all of the other information listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report if we The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 69
