Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The BSS Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of The BSS We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, statements.
The other information comprises only the Report the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated of the Directors, the Chairmans Statement, the Business Review, Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Statement of the Financial Review, the Principal Risks and Uncertainties, the Accounting Policies for the Group and the related notes.
These Corporate Social Responsibility Report, the Combined Code Group financial statements have been prepared under the Principles of Good Governance Statement, the Directors accounting policies set out therein.
Responsibilities Statement, the unaudited part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee, and all of the other information listed We have reported separately on the parent company financial on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report statements of The BSS Group plc for the year ended 31 March if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 2009 and on the information in the Report of the Remuneration inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our Committee that is described as having been audited.
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial Responsibilities.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, applied and adequately disclosed.
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in information and explanations which we considered necessary giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or assurance that the Group financial statements are free from into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity our prior consent in writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Opinion with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In our opinion: We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the Group financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of statements.
The information given in the Report of the Directors the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its includes that specific information presented in the Chairmans profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Statement, the Business Review, the Corporate Social the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Responsibility Report, the Key Performance Indicators, the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties page and the Financial Review IAS Regulation: and that are cross referred from the Business Review section of the the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent Report of the Directors.
with the Group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the Combined Code Principles of Good East Midlands Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the 27 May 2009 nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 37
