106 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Independent auditors report to the members of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Jardine Matters on which we are required to report by Lloyd Thompson Group plc for the year ended 31st December 2009 exception which comprise the Balance Sheet, the Reconciliation of Movements in We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Shareholders Funds, the Accounting Policies and the related notes a to i.
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
from branches not visited by us: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the on pages 30 and 31, the directors are responsible for the preparation accounting records and returns: or of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent made: or company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and we have not received all the information and explanations we require International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards for our audit.
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matters This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Jardine companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 Lloyd Thompson Group plc for the year ended 31st December 2009. of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into for and on behalf of  LLP whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors consent in writing.
London 22nd March 2010 Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Notes: in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the a The maintenance and integrity of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and presentation of the financial statements.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31st December 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
