Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 45 Independent auditors report to the members of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Jardine Lloyd Matters on which we are required to report by Thompson Group plc for the year ended 31st December 2009 which exception comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following: of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Group Balance Sheet, the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated our opinion: Statement of Cash Flows, the Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 30 and 31, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the directors statement, set out on page 31, in relation to going the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a concern: and true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the statements in accordance with applicable law and International companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Combined Code specified for our review.
comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Other matters the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc for the year ended 31st December in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other 2009 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into described as having been audited.
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Scope of the audit of the financial statements Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures London in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 22nd March 2010 financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Notes: policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been a The maintenance and integrity of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the presentation of the financial statements.
auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Opinion on financial statements b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and In our opinion the Group financial statements: dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31st jurisdictions.
December 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
