American pp32 37 11 3 10 9:33 am Page 32 Independent Auditors Report We have audited the financial statements of JPMorgan Opinion on financial statements American Investment Trust plc for the year ended In our opinion the financial statements: 31st December 2009 which comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders Funds, the give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes affairs at 31st December 2009 and of its profit for the year 1 to 23.
The financial reporting framework that has been then ended: applied in their preparation is applicable law and United have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements This report is made solely to the companys members, as a of the Companies Act 2006. body, in accordance with sections 495, 496 and 497 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for In our opinion: no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit Companies Act 2006: and work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the information given in the Directors Report for the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of Matters on which we are required to report by exception the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: statements in accordance with applicable law and International Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards you if, in our opinion: require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Scope of the audit of the financial statements branches not visited by us: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the financial statements and the part of the Directors disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free with the accounting records and returns: or from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting law are not made: or policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the we have not received all the information and explanations reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by we require for our audit.
the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
32 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 American pp32 37 11 3 10 9:33 am Page 33 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement contained within the Directors Report in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
C Clliiv five e B Bo ou uc ch h Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London 11th March 2010 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
