Independent Auditors Report To the members of JPMorgan Asian InvestmentTrust plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the accounts of JPMorgan Asian Investment In our opinion: Trust plc for the year ended 30th September 2009 which the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of Movements audited has been properly prepared in accordance with in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement the Companies Act 2006: and and the related notes to the accounts.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is the information given in the Directors Report for the applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards financial year for which the accounts are prepared is United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities We have nothing to report in respect of the following.
Statement set out on page 29, the Directors are responsible for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to the preparation of the accounts and for being satisfied that you if, in our opinion: they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts in accordance with applicable law and International adequate accounting records have not been kept, or Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards returns adequate for our audit have not been received require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards from branches not visited by us: or Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and Report to be audited are not in agreement with the only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with accounting records and returns: or Sections 495 to 497 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other law are not made: or person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it we have not received all the information and explanations may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the accounts the Directors statement, set out on page 20, in relation to An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and going concern: and disclosures in the accounts sufficient to give reasonable the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating assurance that the accounts are free from material to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes the 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: whether the significant accounting estimates made by the Directors are reasonable: the overall presentation of the accounts.
Ian Armfield Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Opinion on accounts Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London In our opinion the accounts: 15th December 2009 give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys Notes: affairs at 30th September 2009 and of its net return and a The maintenance and integrity of the JPMorgan Asian Investment cash flows for the year then ended: Trust plc website www.
co. uk is the responsibility of the have been properly prepared in accordance with United Manager: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred have been prepared in accordance with the requirements to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
of the Companies Act 2006. b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
30 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
