1 Independent Auditors Report To the members of JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Trust plc Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and We have audited the accounts of JPMorgan European control procedures.
Fledgeling Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31st March We read other information contained in the Annual Report and 2009 which comprise the Income Statement, the consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the The other information comprises only the Chairmans Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
Statement, the Investment Managers Report, the Directors These accounts have been prepared under the accounting Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the unaudited policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information part of the Directors Remuneration Report and all of the other in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as information listed on the contents page.
We consider the having been audited.
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report information.
and the Accounts in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Basis of Audit Opinion Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
The Directors are also Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing responsible for preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
An audit includes examination, on a test Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the only for the Companys members as a body in accordance accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to information and explanations which we considered necessary whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report information given in the Directors Report is consistent with to be audited.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Chairmans Opinion Statement and the Investment Managers Report that is cross In our opinion: referenced from the Business Review section of the Directors the accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with Report.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st March 2009 has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not and of its net loss and cash flows for the year then ended: received all the information and explanations we require the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Report to be audited have been properly prepared in Directors remuneration and other transactions is not accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and disclosed.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement with the accounts.
reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the  LLP Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report C Ch ha ar rt te er re ed d A Ac cc co ou un nt ta an nt ts s a an nd d R Re eg giis st te er re ed d A Au ud diit to or rs s if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the London 1st June 2009 Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and 1 The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by JPMAM or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of JPMAM.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website or any other website upon which the accounts may be published and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may occur to the accounts following presentation on a website.
Visitors to any website containing the accounts need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
