Independent Auditors Report To the shareholders of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: whether Trust plc the significant accounting estimates made by the Directors are reasonable: the overall presentation of the accounts.
We have audited the accounts of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc for the year ended 30th June Opinion on accounts 2009 which comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash In our opinion the accounts: Flow Statement and the related notes to the accounts.
The give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys financial reporting framework that has been applied in their affairs at 30th June 2009 and of its loss and cash flows for preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom the year then ended: Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors have been prepared in accordance with the requirements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities of the Companies Act 2006.
Statement set out on page 31, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the accounts and for being satisfied Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to In our opinion: audit the accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those the part of the remuneration report to be audited has standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices been properly prepared in accordance with the Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Companies Act 2006: and This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and the information given in the Directors Report for the only for the Companys members as a body in accordance financial year for which the accounts are prepared is with Sections 495 to 497 of the Companies Act 2006 and for consistent with the accounts.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other Matters on which we are required to report by exception person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it We have nothing to report in respect of the following: may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Scope of the audit of the accounts adequate accounting records have not been kept, or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and returns adequate for our audit have not been received disclosures in the accounts sufficient to give reasonable from branches not visited by us: or assurance that the accounts are free from material the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This Report to be audited are not in agreement with the includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies accounting records and returns: or are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have 32 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 31, in relation to going concern: and the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review.
I Ia an n A Ar rm mf fiie elld d Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London 30th September 2009 Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc website www.
co. uk is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
