7716 Accounts 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:29 Page 66 66 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the statements the financial statements of BTG plc for the year Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the Group Income have not received all the information and explanations Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, we require for our audit, or if information specified by law the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, regarding directors remuneration and other transactions the Group Statement of Consolidated Recognised Income is not disclosed.
and Expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement policies set out therein.
reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by We have also audited the information in the Directors the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we Remuneration Report that is described as having report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards This report is made solely to the Companys members, statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors We read the other information contained in the Annual report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Report and consider whether it is consistent with the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume audited financial statements.
We consider the implications responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the for our report if we become aware of any apparent Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Basis of audit opinion Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group We conducted our audit in accordance with International financial statements in accordance with applicable law Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Responsibilities.
disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements includes an assessment of the significant estimates and and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be judgements made by the directors in the preparation audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory of the financial statements, and of whether the requirements and International Standards on Auditing accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and UK and Ireland.
Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain financial statements and the part of the Directors all the information and explanations which we considered Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited of the IAS Regulation.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion We also report to you whether in our opinion the information we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial of information in the financial statements and the part of the statements.
The information given in the Directors Report Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
includes that specific information presented in the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
7716 Accounts 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:29 Page 67 67 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc continued Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2009: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards to Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor St James Square Manchester M2 6DS 13 May 2009
