Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of JPMorgan the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing European Investment Trust plc Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards We have audited the accounts of JPMorgan European statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31st March 2009 form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys which comprise the Income Statement, Statement of Total corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Recognised Gains and Losses, Reconciliation of Movements procedures.
in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, and the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 25.
These accounts have We read other information contained in the Annual Report and been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
The We have also audited the information in the Directors other information comprises only the Financial Results, Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report, Summaries of Results, Ten Year Financial Record, Ten Largest This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Investments, Portfolio Analyses, Lists of Investments, Portfolio body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act Income Statements, Portfolio Balance Sheets, Board of 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Directors, Directors Report, Corporate Governance, the state to the Companys members those matters we are unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts, purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Information about the Company, Capital Structure and accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Conversion between Share Classes, Shareholder Analyses, Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit Notice of Annual General Meeting and Glossary of Terms.
We work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, information.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Basis of audit opinion Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted We conducted our audit in accordance with International Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Responsibilities.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, a true and fair view, the accounts and the part of the Directors consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the the information and explanations which we considered accounts.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other information and explanations we require for our audit, or if irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the and other transactions is not disclosed.
accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement be audited.
reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of 56 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 T H E C O M P A N Y Opinion In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st March 2009 and of its loss for the year then ended: the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the accounts.
ERNST & YOUNG LLP Registered Auditor London, 8th June 2009 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
