Independent Auditors Report To the Members of The JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
We have audited the financial statements of JP Morgan Japanese Investment Trust plc for the year ended have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 30th September 2009 which comprise the Income Statement, 2006. the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have also audited the information in the Directors In our opinion: Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
The reporting framework that has been applied in their the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be preparation is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Companies Act 2006: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a the information given in the Directors Report for the body, in accordance with Sections 495, 496 and 497 of the financial year for which the financial statements are Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
that we might state to the Companys members those matters that we are required to state to them in an auditors report and Matters on which we are required to report by Exception for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we We have nothing to report in respect of the following: do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our you if, in our opinion: audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept: or Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors the financial statements and the part of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Statement set out on page 26, the Directors are responsible with the accounting records or returns: or for preparing the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report and for being satisfied that they give a certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial law are not made: or statements and the auditable part of the Directors we have not received all the information and explanations Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and we require for our audit.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Board APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Directors statement, set out on page 18, in relation to going concern: and Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and J Staines have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Senior Statutory Auditor reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by For and on behalf of the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Begbies Chettle Agar statements.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Epworth House Opinion on Financial Statements 25 City Road In our opinion the financial statements: London give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys 20th November 2009 affairs as at 30th September 2009 and of its net return for the year then ended: JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
