7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:58 Page 34 34 Independent auditors report to the members of The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. We have audited the financial statements of The Law Scope of the audit of the financial statements Debenture Corporation p. l. c for the year ended An audit involves obtaining evidence about the 31 December 2009 which comprise the group and amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Corporation statements of financial position, the sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the group income statement, the group and Corporation financial statements are free from material statement of comprehensive income, the group and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Corporation statements of cash flow, the group and This includes an assessment of: whether the Corporation statements of changes in equity and the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups related notes.
The financial reporting framework that and the parent companys circumstances and have has been applied in their preparation is applicable been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: law and International Financial Reporting Standards the reasonableness of significant accounting IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as estimates made by the directors: and the overall regards the parent company financial statements, presentation of the financial statements.
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3the financial statements give a true and fair view of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit of the state of the groups and the parent work has been undertaken so that we might state to companys affairs as at 31 December 2009 and the companys members those matters we are of the groups profit for the year then ended: required to state to them in an auditors report and the group financial statements have been properly for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility the European Union: to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, the parent company financial statements have for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied Respective responsibilities of directors and in accordance with the provisions of the auditors Companies Act 2006: and As explained more fully in the statement of directors the financial statements have been prepared in responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the accordance with the requirements of the preparation of the financial statements and for being Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS responsibility is to audit the financial statements in Regulation.
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Opinion on other matters prescribed by the standards require us to comply with the Auditing Companies Act 2006 Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for In our opinion: Auditors.
the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:58 Page 35 35 Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 26, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Neil Fung-On senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor London United Kingdom 22 February 2010 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
