126 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC We have audited the group financial statements of Lloyds Banking Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprises the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on page 99, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 100 to 104 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, on page 104, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Lloyds Banking Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Ian Rankin Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Edinburgh 25 February 2010 a The maintenance and integrity of the Lloyds Banking Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
