GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE GROUP PLC We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report and the financial statements of London Stock Exchange Group plc for consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the Consolidated The other information comprises only the Group at a Glance, the Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, Market Position the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Trends, the Business Review, Financial Review, Our Wider Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
Responsibilities, Principal Risks and Uncertainties, the Corporate These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting Governance Statement, the unaudited part of the Remuneration policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Report and the Directors Report.
We consider the implications Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
RESPECTIvE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
AND AUDITORS The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in adequately disclosed.
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom information and explanations which we considered necessary in order this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
that the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 to be audited.
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the OPINION information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the In our opinion: financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information that is cross referred from the The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Business Review section of the Directors Report.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the The Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act transactions is not disclosed.
1985, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2009 and cash flows for the year then ended: We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects The financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and not required to consider whether the Boards statements on The information given in the Directors Report is consistent internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on with the financial statements.
the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 20 May 2009 London Stock Exchange Group 54 Annual Report 2009
