Man Group plc 74 Annual Report 2009 Auditors Report on the Groups Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Man Group plc We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider We have audited the Group financial statements of Man Group plc for whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the Group Income The other information comprises only the Business Overview and Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report.
We consider the the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Principal Accounting Policies and the notes to the Group financial misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
These Group financial statements have been prepared statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
under the accounting policies set out therein.
Basis of audit opinion We have reported separately on the parent company financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards statements of Man Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 and on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant having been audited.
to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted adequately disclosed.
by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 52.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 in the Group financial statements.
of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other Opinion purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or In our opinion: into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its profit and statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial cash flows for the year then ended: statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Regulation: and Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that information presented in the Business Review and Financial Review, which is cross referred from the principal activities, business review and results  LLP section of the Directors Report.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received 28 May 2009 all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
