PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Independent auditors report 118 We review whether the corporate governance statements We have audited the financial statements the financial statements of PartyGaming Plc for the year ended set out in the Corporate Governance Statement, Report of 31 December 2009 which comprise the Group statement of the Nominations Committee and Report of the Audit comprehensive income, the Group and Parent Company Committee reflect the Companys compliance with the nine statement of financial position, the Group and Parent provisions of the 2008 Combined Code specified for our Company statements of changes in equity, the Group and review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards Parent Company statements of cashflow and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Report that is described as having been audited.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual financial statements.
This other information comprises only Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors statements in accordance with applicable law and Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, Executives Review and the Review of 2009.
We consider as adopted by the European Union, are set out in the the implications for our report if we become aware of any Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and other information.
the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Our report has been prepared pursuant to the terms of our and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
engagement letter and for no other purpose.
No person is entitled to rely on this report unless such a person is a person PartyGaming Plc has complied with the requirements of rules 9.8.
8 of the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services entitled to rely upon this report by virtue of the terms of our engagement letter or has been expressly authorised to do Authority and in accordance with Section 421 of the UK Companies Act 2006 in preparing its Annual Report, as if it so by our prior written consent.
Save as above, we do not was incorporated in the United Kingdom.
As auditors, we accept responsibility for this report to any other person or for have agreed that our responsibilities in relation to the Annual any other purpose and we hereby expressly disclaim any and Report will be those as set out below.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Basis of audit opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements have been properly prepared in We conducted our audit in accordance with International accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930 as amended, basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has in the financial statements and the part of the Directors been properly prepared in accordance with Section 421 of Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an the UK Companies Act 2006.
We also report to you whether in assessment of the significant estimates and judgments our opinion, the information disclosed in the Directors Report made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial is consistent with the financial statements, if the Company statements, and of whether the accounting policies are has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, received all the information and explanations we require for are consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
our audit, or if information specified by the Listing Rules and Gibraltar legislation regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance 119 Financial statements Other information BDO LLP We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered Chartered Accountants necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to 55 Baker Street give reasonable assurance that the financial statements London W1U 7EU and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are 4 March 2010 free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Christian Summerfield Statutory Auditor evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of For and on behalf of information in the financial statements and the part of the BDO Limited Remuneration Report to be audited.
Registered Auditors PO Box 1200 Opinion Montagu Pavilion In our opinion: 810 Queensway Gibraltar the financial statements give a true and fair view, in 4 March 2010 accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups and the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930 as amended : the part of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Section 421 of the UK Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements: and we have nothing to report to you in respect of our responsibility set out above in relation to the Company keeping proper accounting records and the auditors receiving information and explanations for our audit and disclosures regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions.
