The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 27 1 Independent Auditors Report To the shareholders of The Mercantile Investment Managers Report that is cross referenced from the Trust plc Business Review section of the Directors Report.
We have audited the accounts of The Mercantile In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31st January Company has not kept proper accounting records, 2009 which comprise the Income Statement, the if we have not received all the information and Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, explanations we require for our audit, or if the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the information specified by law regarding Directors related notes.
These accounts have been prepared remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
under the accounting policies set out therein.
We We review whether the Corporate Governance have also audited the information in the Directors Statement reflects the Companys compliance with Remuneration Report that is described as having the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 been audited.
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does The Directors responsibilities for preparing the not.
We are not required to consider whether the Annual Report and the accounts in accordance with Boards statements on internal control cover all risks applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted of the Companys corporate governance procedures Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of or its risk and control procedures.
The Directors are also We read other information contained in the Annual responsible for preparing the Directors Report and consider whether it is consistent with the Remuneration Report.
The other information comprises Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the only the Chairmans Statement, the Investment part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Managers Report, the Directors Report, the audited in accordance with relevant legal and Corporate Governance Statement and all of the other regulatory requirements and International Standards information listed on the contents page.
We consider on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the implications for our report if we become aware the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the of any apparent misstatements or material Companys members as a body in accordance with inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no responsibilities do not extend to any other other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, information.
accept or assume responsibility for any other Basis of Audit Opinion purpose or to any other person to whom this report We conducted our audit in accordance with is shown or into whose hands it may come save International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland where expressly agreed by our prior consent in issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence We report to you our opinion as to whether the relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment Report to be audited have been properly prepared in of the significant estimates and judgments made by accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and report to you whether in our opinion the information of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to given in the Directors Report is consistent with the the Companys circumstances, consistently applied accounts.
The information given in the Directors and adequately disclosed.
Report includes that specific information presented in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment 1 The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by JPMAM or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of JPMAM.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website or any other website upon which the accounts may be published and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may occur to the accounts following presentation on a website.
Visitors to any website containing the accounts need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
28 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Independent Auditors Report continued We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st January 2009 and of its net loss and cash flows for the year then ended: the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the accounts.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, 24th March 2009
