Independent Auditors' Report to the Members of Murray Income Trust PLC We have audited the Financial Statements of Murray Income Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Trust PLC for the year ended 30 June 2009 which comprise Companies Act 2006 the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Reconciliation of In our opinion: Movements in Shareholders' Funds, Cash Flow Statement the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be and the related notes 1 to 19.
The financial reporting audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the framework that has been applied in their preparation is Companies Act 2006: applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards the information given in the Directors' Report for the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a the information given in the Corporate Governance body, in accordance with Sections 495, 496 and 497 of the Statement in compliance with rules 7.2.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook issued that we might state to the Company's members those by the Financial Services Authority information about matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' internal control and risk management systems in relation to report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent financial reporting processes and about share capital permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility structures is consistent with the financial statements.
to anyone other than the Company and the Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for Matters on which we are required to report by the opinions we have formed.
exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors' Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Responsibilities set out on page 35, the Directors are you if, in our opinion: responsible for the preparation of the financial statements adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
adequate for our audit have not been received from Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in branches not visited by us: or accordance with applicable law and International Standards the financial statements and the part of the Directors' on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement comply with the Auditing Practices Board's Ethical Standards with the accounting records and returns: or for Auditors.
certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by [aw are not made: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the Directors' statement, set out on page 28, in relation to from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or going concern: and error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting the part of the Statement of Corporate Governance relating policies are appropriate to the Company's circumstances and to the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: Cordon C. Coull Senior Statutory Auditor give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor affairs as at 30 June 2009 and of its net result for the year Edinburgh then ended: 15 September 2009 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
