N iNo fide tepe s t N o th deNt au e MCd eit V b or as s r is eport to old su Mutual p ppleMe lC o Ntary i N th N e Mar forMk at et C ioNoNsisteNt For the year ended 31 December 2009 continued eMbedded Value basis suppleMeNtary iNforMatioN We have audited the Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV basis supplementary information the supplementary information of Old Mutual plc the Company on pages 340 to 389 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009.
The supplementary information has been prepared in accordance with the CFO Forum MCEV Principles.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the Group financial statements which are on pages 180 to 320.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company those matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 338, the directors have accepted responsibility for preparing the supplementary information on an MCEV basis in accordance with the MCEV Principles.
Our responsibility is to audit the supplementary information in accordance with the terms of our engagement and having regard to International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the supplementary information An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the supplementary information.
Opinion on supplementary information In our opinion, the MCEV basis supplementary information for the year ended 31 December 2009 has been properly prepared in accordance with the MCEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions as detailed in the basis of preparation of the supplementary information on page 344.
Alastair W S Barbour for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB 11 March 2010 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc 33 339 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 S Shar hareh ehol olde der r iinf nfor orma mati tion on F Fin inanc ancia ials ls G Gov over erna nanc nce e R Risk isk a and nd R Resp espon onsi sibi bili lity ty B Bus usin iness ess r re evi view ew Ma Mana nage geme ment nt st stat atem emen ents ts Fa Fast st re rea ad d
