Independent auditors report to Prudential plc on the European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information We have audited the EEV basis supplementary information the Scope of the audit of the supplementary information supplementary information of Prudential Plc for the year ended An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 31 December 2009 set out on pages 304 to 340.
The financial disclosures in the supplementary information to give reasonable reporting framework that has been applied in the supplementary assurance that the supplementary information is free from material information is the European Embedded Value Principles issued in misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an May 2004 by the European CFO Forum as supplemented by the assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied issued in October 2005 together the EEV Principles using the and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant methodology and assumptions set out on pages 308 to 312 and accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall 333 to 337 respectively.
The supplementary information should be presentation of the supplementary information.
read in conjunction with the group financial statements which are on pages 119 to 301.
Opinion on supplementary information In our opinion, the EEV basis supplementary information for the This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the year ended 31 December 2009 has been properly prepared in terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so accordance with the EEV Principles using the methodology and that we might state to the Company those matters we have been assumptions set out on pages 308 to 312 and 333 to 337 engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
G Bainbridge Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc As explained more fully in the statement of directors Chartered Accountants responsibilities set out on page 341, the directors have accepted London responsibility for the preparation of the supplementary information on the EEV basis in accordance with the EEV 8 March 2010 Principles.
Our responsibility is to audit the supplementary information in accordance with the terms of our engagement and having regard to International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
342 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 344 Risk factors 348 Shareholder information 350 How to contact us 343
