Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc We have audited the financial statements of Rathbone Brothers Plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 set out on pages 60 to 113.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group accounts is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company accounts is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 56, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of the Groups pro t for the year then ended: the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the Company accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 58 Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 56, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate governance report relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code speci ed for our review.
I Cummings Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 8 Salisbury Square, London EC4Y 8BB 23 February 2010 59 Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009
