68 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Independent AudItoRS RepoRt to the membeRS of RSA InSuRAnce GRoup plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements of RSA Insurance opinion on other matters prescribed by the companies Act 2006 Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the In our opinion: consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, The part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 statement of cashflows and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial The information given in the directors report for the financial year reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Group statements.
adopted by the European Union.
We have also audited the information in the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the in our opinion: Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent The part of the directors remuneration report described as having permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone been audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for returns or our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We have not received all the information and explanations we require As explained more fully in the responsibility statement, the directors for our audit.
are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing The directors statement contained within the directors report UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the in relation to going concern Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Scope of the audit of the financial statements Combined Code specified for our review.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable other matters assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an statements of RSA Insurance Group plc for the year ended assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 31 December 2009. the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Graham Richardson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of deloitte llp opinion of financial statements Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: London, UK 24 February 2010 Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
