134 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Independent AudItoRS RepoRt to the membeRS of RSA InSuRAnce GRoup plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of RSA opinion on other matters prescribed by the companies Act 2006 Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which In our opinion: comprise the Parent Company statement of financial position, the Parent Company statement of comprehensive income, the Parent The information given in the directors report for the financial year for Company statement of changes in equity, the Parent Company which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the statement of cashflows and the related notes 1 to 10.
The financial Parent Company financial statements.
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS matters on which we are required to report by exception as adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the Parent Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received state to the Parent Companys members those matters we are from branches not visited by us or required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other The Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept the accounting records and returns or or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Parent Company Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not and the Parent Companys members as a body, for our audit work, made or for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the responsibility statement, the directors other matters are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
of RSA Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with Graham Richardson Senior Statutory Auditor the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
for and on behalf of deloitte llp Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Scope of the audit of the financial statements London, UK An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 24 February 2010 disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
opinion of financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
