38043 pp063-069 File 06 08 03 2010 15:16 Page 64 64 Independent Auditors report to the members of Schroders plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Schroders plc for Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the consolidated In our opinion: income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement, and the the Group financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Matters on which we are required to report by exception Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement on in our opinion: page 62, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and not made: or fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on we have not received all the information and explanations we require Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply for our audit.
with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only the Directors statement, in the Directors report, in relation to going for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 concern: and of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for the part of the corporate governance report relating to the any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by Combined Code specified for our review.
our prior consent in writing.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the parent company financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and statements of Schroders plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable and on the information in the Remuneration report that is described assurance that the financial statements are free from material as having been audited.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Richard Keers, Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately London disclosed: 3 March 2010 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009
