Independent Auditors Report To the members of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC We have audited the financial statements of The Scottish Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 31 October 2009 Companies Act 2006 which comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, In our opinion: the Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Total Recognised the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Gains and Losses, the Reconciliation of Movement in audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Stockholders Funds, and the related notes 1 to 18.
The financial the Companies Act 2006: and reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation the information given in the Directors Report for the is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards financial year for which the financial statements are United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Matters on which we are required to report by exception body, in accordance with sections 495, 496 and 497 of the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for you if, in our opinion: no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the adequate for our audit have not been received from company and the companys members as a body, for our audit branches not visited by us: or work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with the accounting records and returns: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of law are not made: or the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give we have not received all the information and explanations a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial we require for our audit.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards the directors statement contained within the directors APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
report in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Scope of the audit of the financial statements the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and Ralph Adams CA Senior Statutory Auditor have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Edinburgh, UK statements.
10 December 2009 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 October 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
44 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009
