INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the members of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC the Company We have audited the financial statements of Scottish Mortgage We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 31 March 2009 which give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and comprise the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Reconciliation of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Cash Flow Statement and been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act.
These financial statements have been prepared We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that The information given in the Directors Report includes the speci c is described as having been audited.
information presented in the Chairmans Statement, the Managers Review, the One Year Summary, the Five Year Summary and the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Ten Year Record that is cross referenced from the Business Review in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. section of the Directors Report.
We also report to you if, in our Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we Companys members those matters we are required to state to them have not received all the information and explanations we require in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding Directors permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement re ects have formed.
the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Code speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the its risk and control procedures.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 28.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance We consider the implications for our report if we become aware with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Basis of Audit Opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards In our opinion: on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its loss for part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also the year then ended: includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgments the financial statements and the part of the Directors made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the in accordance with the Companies Act: and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in KPMG Audit Plc order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable Chartered Accountants assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Registered Auditor Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material Edinburgh misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
14 May 2009 In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
