Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2009 St. Jamess Place plc.
3183415 61 Independent Auditors Report to the members of St. Jamess Place plc we have audited the group financial statements of St. Jamess Place plc matteRs on whiCh we aRe RequiRed to RepoRt for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Consolidated By exCeption Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of we have nothing to report in respect of the following: Changes in Equity, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes.
The under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation our opinion: is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European union.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or RespeCtive ResponsiBilities of diReCtoRs and we have not received all the information and explanations we require auditoRs for our audit: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial company.
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance under the Listing Rules we are required to review: with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing uK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing the directors statement on going concern included in the corporate Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
governance statement: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Combined Code specified for our review.
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
we do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any otheR matteRs other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or we have reported separately on the parent company financial statements into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior of St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 and on the consent in writing.
information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
sCope of the audit of the finanCial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether Craig gentle senior statutory auditor caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the for and on behalf of  LLP accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of Bristol significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall 23 February 2010 presentation of the financial statements.
Notes: a The financial statements are published on the website of St. Jamess Place plc, www.
opinion on finanCial statements The maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place plc website is the responsibility of the In our opinion the group financial statements: directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at b Legislation in the united Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 31 December 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
opinion on otheR matteRs pResCRiBed By the Companies aCt 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
