Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of We read the other information contained in the Annual Report The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC as described in the contents section and consider whether it We have audited the Group financial statements of is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC for the year ended We consider the implications for our report if we become aware 31March 2009 which comprise the Consolidated Income of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Statement, and the related notes 1 to 33.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies Basis of audit opinion set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in We have reported separately on the individual Company the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors financial statements of The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an for the year ended 31 March 2009. assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a statements, and of whether the accounting policies are body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might and adequately disclosed.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not information and explanations which we considered necessary accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Company and the Companys members as a body, for our reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group financial information in the Group financial statements and the part statements in accordance with applicable law and International of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Opinion Responsibilities.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group the Group financial statements have been properly prepared financial statements have been properly prepared in in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited has the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies as having been audited has been properly prepared in Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the information given in the Directors Report is consistent the Group financial statements.
with the Group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
London, United Kingdom 4June 2009 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
