THE GROUP COMPANY Independent Auditors Report to the member of TR Property Investment Trust plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements Managers Report Market Background and Outlook, the Financial the financial statements of TR Property Investment Trust plc for the Highlights and Performance for each share class, each share class year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the Group Income Managers Report, each share class Portfolio information, each share Statement, the Group and Company Statement of Changes in Equity, class Investment Portfolio by country, each share class Twenty Largest the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Company Equity Investments, the Investment Properties, each share class Cash Flow Statements, and the related notes 1 to 22.
These financial Income Statement, each share class Balance Sheet, the unaudited statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out sections of the Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Responsibilities Statement.
We consider the implications for our report Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in not extend to any other information.
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Basis of audit opinion members those matters we are required to state to them in an We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Union, are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of that the financial statements and the part of the Directors the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In on Auditing UK and Ireland.
forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been Opinion properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as In our opinion: regards the Group financial information, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not loss for the year then ended: kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information the financial statements and the part of the Directors specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly transactions is not disclosed.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2009: required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal the information given in the Directors Report is consistent control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the with the financial statements.
effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Ernst & Young LLP consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
Registered Auditor The other information comprises only the Statement of Investment London Objective and Policy, Financial Highlights and Performance, Historical Performance for years ended 31 March, the Chairmans Statement, the 4 June 2009 TR Property Investment Trust 63
