Independent auditors report to the members of Tullett Prebon plc We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Tullett Prebon Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 38.
The financial Matters on which we are required to report by exception reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is We have nothing to report in respect of the following: applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to are not made: or the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest we have not received all the information and explanations we extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility require for our audit.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: have formed.
the directors statement contained within the Business Review Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors in relation to going concern: and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group t he part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating Financial Statements and for being satis ed that they give a true to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial the June 2008 Combined Code speci ed for our review.
Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us Other matter to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical We have reported separately on the Parent Company Standards for Auditors.
Financial Statements of Tullett Prebon plc for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Manbhinder Rana Senior Statutory Auditor disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable for and on behalf of assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Deloitte LLP assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and London adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting United Kingdom estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of 8 March 2010 the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its pro t for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and h ave been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
38 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009
