Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Tullett Prebon plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which In our opinion: comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 8.
The the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited financial reporting framework that has been applied in their has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Act 2006: and Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in consistent with the financial statements.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to Matters on which we are required to report by exception the Companys members those matters we are required to state to We have nothing to report in respect of the following: them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members in our opinion: as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part Company Financial Statements and for being satis ed that they of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards are not made: or APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we Scope of the audit of the financial statements require for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable Other matter assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an of Tullett Prebon plc for the year ended 31 December 2009. assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently Manbhinder Rana Senior Statutory Auditor applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant for and on behalf of accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Opinion on financial statements London In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements: United Kingdom 8 March 2010 give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Tullett Prebon plc 81 Annual Report 2009
