52 Corporate governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Chemring Group PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Opinion on financial statements Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2009 which In our opinion: comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated of the Groups affairs as at 31 October 2009 and of the Groups Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the profit for the year then ended: related Notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Companies Act 2006 in accordance with Chapter 3, Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared Companys members those matters we are required to state to is consistent with the Group financial statements.
them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Matters on which we are required to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members to report by exception as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We have nothing to report in respect of the following: have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, are not made: or the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial we have not received all the information and explanations we statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair require for our audit.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply the directors statement contained within the Statement on with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards Corporate Governance in relation to going concern: and for Auditors.
the part of the Statement on Corporate Governance relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Scope of the audit of the financial statements June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Other matters assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have reported separately on the parent company financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an statements of Chemring Group PLC for the year ended and on the assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and as having been audited.
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Andrew Gordon Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Southampton, United Kingdom 19 January 2010 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
