Report of the Auditors The British Land Company PLC 95 Report of the Auditors Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The British Land Company PLC Basis of audit opinion We have audited the Group financial statements of The British Land Company PLC We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the consolidated income statement, and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of recognised income and on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group expense, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, the consolidated cash financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
flow statement and the related notes 1 to 25.
These Group financial statements have It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of The British Land Company PLC for the year ended 31 March 2009.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the directors section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the directors as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March remuneration report and the Group financial statements in accordance with 2009 and of its loss for the year then ended: applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the information given in the directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with Deloitte LLP the Group financial statements.
The information given in the directors report includes Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors that specific information presented in the business review that is cross referred from London, United Kingdom the business review section of the directors report.
20 May 2009 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
