| Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Cobham plc We have audited the financial statements of Cobham plc for the year Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Group consolidated Act2006 income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive In our opinion, the information given in the Group Directors report for income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared of changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement, the related is consistent with the Group financial statements.
notes and the accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial Matters on which we are required to report by exception statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EuropeanUnion.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors ouropinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 50, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true made: or and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we require in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on for our audit.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Directors statement, set out on page 50, in relation to going the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part concern: and 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into Combined Code specified for our review.
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 51 consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial Scope of the audit of the financial statements statements of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that is described as having been audited.
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances Stuart Watson Senior Statutory Auditor and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the for and on behalf of  LLP reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Southampton, 3 March 2010 Opinion on financial statements Notes: In our opinion, the Group financial statements: a The maintenance and integrity of the Cobham plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at statements since they were initially presented on the website.
31 December 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the year b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009
