| Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Cobham plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Cobham Matters on which we are required to report by exception plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the balance We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where sheet, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, the the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: related notes and the accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Accepted Accounting Practice.
from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement with the accounting records and returns: or set out on page 50, the Directors are responsible for the preparation certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that not made: or they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent we have not received all the information and explanations we require company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and for our audit.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Other matter Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2009.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, Stuart Watson Senior Statutory Auditor in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other for and on behalf of  LLP purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Southampton, 3 March 2010 consent in writing.
106 Notes: Scope of the audit of the financial statements a The maintenance and integrity of the Cobham plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance since they were initially presented on the website.
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
