Report of the Directors P0180 Financial statements P81130 Investor resource P131144 Financial statements 83 Independent auditors report to the members of Land Securities Group PLC Opinion We have audited the Group and Parent Company In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the In our opinion: financial statements the financial statements Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we the Group financial statements give a true and fair of Land Securities Group PLC for the year ended have not received all the information and explanations view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 31 March 2009 which comprise the Group Income we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance law regarding Directors remuneration and other as at 31 March 2009 and of its loss and cash ows Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow transactions is not disclosed.
for the year then ended: Statements, the Group and Parent Company We review whether the Corporate Governance the Parent Companys financial statements give Statements of Recognised Income and Expense and Statement re ects the Companys compliance with a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as the related notes.
These financial statements have the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 adopted by the European Union as applied in been prepared under the accounting policies set out speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the accordance with the provisions of the Companies therein.
We have also audited the information in the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys Directors Remuneration Report that is described as not.
We are not required to consider whether the affairs as at 31 March 2009 and cash ows for the having been audited.
Boards statements on internal control cover all risks year then ended: and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness the financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors of the Groups corporate governance procedures or Directors Remuneration Report to be audited The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual its risk and control procedures.
have been properly prepared in accordance with Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the We read other information contained in the the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the financial statements in accordance with applicable law Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent Group financial statements, Article 4 of the and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs with the audited financial statements.
The other IAS Regulation: and as adopted by the European Union are set out in the information comprises only the Report of the the information given in the Directors Report Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Directors and the items listed under the heading is consistent with the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial Investor Information.
We consider the implications statements and the part of the Directors for our report if we become aware of any apparent Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance misstatements or material inconsistencies with the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
extend to any other information.
 LLP This report, including the opinion, has been prepared Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors for and only for the Companys members as a body in Basis of audit opinion London accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act We conducted our audit in accordance with 12 May 2009 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit other purpose or to any other person to whom this includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence report is shown or into whose hands it may come, relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the other than the Company and the Companys financial statements and the part of the Directors members as a body, save where expressly agreed Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes by our prior consent in writing.
an assessment of the signi cant estimates and We report to you our opinion as to whether judgements made by the Directors in the preparation the financial statements give a true and fair view and of the financial statements, and of whether the whether the financial statements and the part of the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have and Companys circumstances, consistently applied been properly prepared in accordance with the and adequately disclosed.
Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group We planned and performed our audit so as to financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
obtain all the information and explanations which We also report to you whether in our opinion the we considered necessary in order to provide us with information given in the Directors Report is consistent suf cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that with the financial statements.
The information given in the financial statements and the part of the Directors the Directors Report comprises the items listed under Remuneration Report to be audited are free from the heading Report of the Directors.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
