Consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC Introduction Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Group financial statements of Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2009 which comprise In our opinion: the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has of recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the accounting 2006: and policies and the related notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as the Group financial statements.
adopted by the European Union.
Matters on which we are required to This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with sections 495 and 496 of the Companies Act report by exception 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state We have nothing to report in respect of the following: to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume in our opinion: responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is members as a body, for our audit work, for this Report, or for the not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or opinions we have formed.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Respective responsibilities of directors we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group the directors statement contained within the Business Review in financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and relation to going concern: and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with Combined Code specified for our review.
the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matters Scope of the audit of the financial We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements statements of Compass Group PLC for the year ended An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 30 September 2009. disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Martin Eadon Senior Statutory Auditor adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom Opinion on financial statements 25 November 2009 In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
60 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 C CG6974 AR p59 p136.
