39 Independent auditors report to the members of Aegis Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Aegis Group Matters on which we are required to report plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the by exception Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of We have nothing to report in respect of the following: comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash ow statement, the Consolidated statement of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you changes in equity and the related Notes 1 to 34.
The financial if, in our opinion: reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards are not made: or IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
we have not received all the information and explanations we This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, require for our audit.
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: state to the Companys members those matters we are required the directors statement contained within the Directors report in to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
relation to going concern: and To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June report, or for the opinions we have formed.
2008 Combined Code speci ed for our review.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Other matter As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, We have reported separately on the parent Company financial the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group statements of Aegis Group plc for the year ended 31 December financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true 2009. and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International William Touche Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require Senior Statutory Auditor us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical for and on behalf of Standards for Auditors.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, UK Scope of the audit of the financial statements 17 March 2010 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its pro t for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Additional information Financial statements Business review Aegis Group plc Governance 95 4094 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Remuneration report Independent auditors report
