Report of the auditors to the members of Cranswick plc audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Independent auditors report to requirements and International Standards on Auditing the members of Cranswick plc UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial We have audited the group and parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the statements the financial statements of Cranswick plc financial statements and the part of the Directors for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly Group Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 Statements of Recognised Income and Expense, the Group and, as regards the group financial statements, Article and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether Parent Company Cash Flow Statements and the related in our opinion the information given in the Directors notes 1 to 31.
These financial statements have been Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
information given in the Directors Report includes that We have also audited the information in the Directors specific information presented in the Operating and Remuneration Report that is described as having been Financial Review that is cross referred from the Principal audited.
Activities, Business Review and Future Developments section of the Directors Report.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we might state to the Companys members those matters we have not received all the information and explanations we are required to state to them in an auditors report and require for our audit, or if information specified by law for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone are not disclosed.
other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement opinions we have formed.
reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for Respective responsibilities our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services of directors and auditors Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance financial statements in accordance with applicable United procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements audited financial statements.
The other information and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 38 of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Opinion Statement, the Review of Activities, the Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate Social Responsibility In our opinion: Statement, the Corporate Governance Statement, the five the group financial statements give a true and fair year statement and Shareholder information.
We consider view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the the implications for our report if we become aware of European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies at 31 March 2009 and of its profit for the year then with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not ended: extend to any other information.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Basis of audit opinion the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of We conducted our audit in accordance with International the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2009: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the the financial statements and the part of the Directors Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 disclosures in the financial statements and the part of and, as regards the group financial statements, Article the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also 4 of the IAS Regulation: and includes an assessment of the significant estimates and the information given in the Directors Report is judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of consistent with the financial statements.
the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately Ernst & Young LLP disclosed.
Registered auditor Hull, 18 May 2009 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
