Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Daily Mail and General Trust PLCA 65 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Daily Mail and General Trust PLC We have audited the group financial by the directors: and the overall Other matter statements of Daily Mail and General presentation of the financial statements.
We have reported separately on the parent Trust plc for the year ended 4th October, Company financial statements of Daily 2009 which comprise the Group Income Opinion on financial statements Mail and General Trust plc for the year Statement, the Group Statement of In our opinion the Group financial ended and on the information in the Recognised Income and Expense, the statements: Directors Remuneration Report that is Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the give a true and fair view of the state of described as having been audited.
Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash the Groups affairs as at 4th October Flow Statement, and the related notes 1 to 2009 and of its loss for the year then 42.
The financial reporting framework that ended: has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial have been properly prepared in William Touche Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Senior Statutory Auditor by the European Union.
the European Union: and for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants This report is made solely to the have been prepared in accordance with and Statutory Auditors companys members, as a body, in the requirements of the Companies Act accordance with sections 495 and 496 of 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS London, United Kingdom the Companies Act 2006.
has been undertaken so that we might 4th December, 2009 state to the companys members those Opinion on other matter matters we are required to state to them prescribed by the in an auditors report and for no other Companies Act 2006 purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by In our opinion the information given in the law, we do not accept or assume Directors Report for the financial year for responsibility to anyone other than the which the financial statements are company and the companys members as prepared is consistent with the group a body, for our audit work, for this report, financial statements.
or for the opinions we have formed.
Matters on which we are Respective responsibilities required to report by exception of directors and auditors We have nothing to report in respect As explained more fully in the Directors of the following: Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are group financial statements and for being required to report to you if, in our opinion: satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group certain disclosures of Directors financial statements in accordance with remuneration specified by law are not applicable law and International made: or Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with we have not received all the the Auditing Practices Boards APBs information and explanations we Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Under the Listing Rules we are required financial statements to review: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the the Directors statement contained financial statements sufficient to give within the Financial and Treasury reasonable assurance that the financial Review in relation to going concern: statements are free from material and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: the part of the Corporate Governance whether the accounting policies are Statement relating to the companys appropriate to the Groups circumstances compliance with the nine provisions of and have been consistently applied and the June 2008 Combined Code adequately disclosed: the reasonableness specified for our review.
of significant accounting estimates made www.
