Group Report of the Auditors Independent auditors report to the members of Dana Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Petroleum plc Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Group financial statements of Dana Petroleum In our opinion: plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Group the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group the Group financial statements: and Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards set out on pages 40 to 42 with respect to internal control and risk IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in statements.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Matters on which we are required to report by in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent exception permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for We have nothing to report in respect of the following: our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on page 45, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group we have not received all the information and explanations we financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and require for our audit: or fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with Company.
the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, on page 45, in relation to going concern: Scope of the audit of the financial statements and: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 40 to disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 42 relating to companys compliance with the nine provisions of the assurance that the financial statements are free from material June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Other matters adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting We have reported separately on the parent Company financial estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the statements of Dana Petroleum plc for the year ended 31 December financial statements.
2009 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the Groups affairs as at 31 December Douglas Nisbet Senior statutory auditor 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Aberdeen by the European Union: and 26 March 2010 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
60 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009
