109 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Company Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Company Independent Auditors Report to the Members of fide La Rue plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion fide La Rue plc for the year ended 28 March 2009 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These parent Company Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing financial statements have been prepared under the accounting Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having parent Company financial statements and the part of the been audited.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments We have reported separately on the Group financial statements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent Company of fide La Rue plc for the year ended 28 March 2009. financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Companys members those matters we are required to state to information and explanations which we considered necessary them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility assurance that the parent Company financial statements and the to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other have formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Company financial statements and the part of the Directors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Directors Remuneration Report and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Opinion Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set In our opinion: out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on pages 50 and 51. the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report as at 28 March 2009: to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK the parent Company financial statements and the part of the and Ireland.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors with the parent Company financial statements.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has KPMG Audit Plc not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Chartered Accountants the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Registered Auditor information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration London and other transactions is not disclosed.
19 May 2009 We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
