Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 149 Independent auditors report to the members of Diageo plc We have audited the parent company fi financial statements of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2009 which comprise the company balance sheet and the related notes.
The fi financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with sections 495, 496 and 497 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and fi financial statements, set out in the corporate governance report, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company fi financial statements and for being satisfi ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company fi financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the fi financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of fi financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
Opinion on fi financial statements In our opinion, the parent company fi financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys aff airs as at 30 June 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the directors report for the fi financial year for which the fi financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company fi financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company fi financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specifi ed by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter We have reported separately on the consolidated fi financial statements of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2009.
Ian Starkey Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants KPMG Audit Plc 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB 26 August 2009
