Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 97 Independent auditors report to the members of Diageo plc We have audited the consolidated fi financial statements of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2009 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash fl ow statement and the related notes.
The fi financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with sections 495 and 496 of the Companies Act 2006 and, in respect of the separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, on terms that have been agreed with the company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and, in respect of the separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB, those matters that we have agreed to state to them in an auditors report, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and fi financial statements, set out in the corporate governance report, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated fi financial statements and for being satisfi ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated fi financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the fi financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of fi financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
Opinion on fi financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated fi financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups aff airs as at 30 June 2009 and of its profi t for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB As explained in the accounting policies set out in the consolidated fi financial statements, the group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the EU, has also applied IFRS as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion, the consolidated fi financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the information given in the directors report for the fi financial year for which the consolidated fi financial statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated fi financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specifi ed by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out in the corporate governance report, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate governance report relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specifi ed for our review.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company fi financial statements of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2009 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Ian Starkey Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants KPMG Audit Plc 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB 26 August 2009
