Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report We have audited the Group financial statements of DSG IFRSs issued by the IASB international plc for the 52 weeks ended 2 May 2009 As explained in note 1.1 to the Group financial statements, which comprise the consolidated income statement, the the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting flow statement and the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
In our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, the information given in the Directors Report for the financial as a body, in accordance with sections 495 and 496 of the period for which the financial statements are prepared is Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so consistent with the Group financial statements: and that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Act 2006. the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Matters on which we are required to report by exception audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report upon in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our financial statements and for being satisfied that they give audit: or a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group the part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in financial statements in accordance with applicable law and agreement with the accounting records and returns.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices the directors statement contained within the Directors Report in relation to Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
going concern: or the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys Scope of the audit of the financial statements compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts for our review.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to Other matter give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are We have reported separately on the parent company financial free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or statements of DSG international plc for the 52 weeks ended error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 2 May 2009. policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinions Financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: Peter ODonoghue FCA give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP at 2 May 2009 and of its loss for the 52 weeks then ended: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 25 June 2009 adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 63
