Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 23 Independent Auditors report to the members of Dunelm Group plc We have audited the financial statements of Dunelm Group plc for Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies the financial year ended 4 July 2009 set out on pages 24 to 27.
Act 2006 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their In our opinion: preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance Act 2006: with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, consistent with the financial statements: and in accordance with sections 495, 496 and 497 of the Companies the information given in the corporate governance statement Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might pursuant to rules 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure Rules and state to the Companys members those matters we are required to Transparency Rules is consistent with the financial statements.
state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Matters on which we are required to report by exception responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been set out on page 22, the Directors are responsible for the received from branches not visited by us: or preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in financial statements in accordance with applicable law and agreement with the accounting records and returns: or International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards are not made: or APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
a separate corporate governance statement is required but has been omitted: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements require for our audit.
is provided on the APBs website at www.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 20, in relation to going Opinion on financial statements concern: and In our opinion: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 4 July 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
2009 and of the Groups profit for the financial year: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies MJD Lane Act 2006: and Senior Statutory Auditor the financial statements have been prepared in accordance for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as Chartered Accountants regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Leicester IAS Regulation.
15 September 2009 Annual General Meeting Financial statements Governance Business review
