Parent Company Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 79 Independent Auditors Report to the members of eaga plc Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the Companies We have audited the Parent Company financial statements Act 2006 of eaga plc for the year ended 31 May 2009 which comprise In our opinion: the Parent Company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom has been properly prepared in accordance with the Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Companies Act 2006: and Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors financial year for which the Parent Company financial As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Responsibilities on page 32, the Directors are responsible Company financial statements.
for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by Exception fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company We have nothing to report in respect of the following financial statements in accordance with applicable law matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
to you if, in our opinion: Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in the Parent Company financial statements and the part accordance with Sections 495 to 497 of the Companies of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving agreement with the accounting records and returns: or these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified other purpose or to any other person to whom this report by law are not made: or is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Other Matter and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to We have reported separately on the Group financial give reasonable assurance that the financial statements statements of eaga plc for the year ended 31 May 2009. are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Bill MacLeod, Senior Statutory Auditor Companys circumstances and have been consistently for and on behalf of  LLP applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: Newcastle Upon Tyne and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
1 September 2009 Opinion on Financial Statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 May 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
