Group Financial Statements eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45 Independent Auditors Report to the members of eaga plc Opinion on Other Matter Prescribed by the Companies We have audited the Group financial statements of eaga Act 2006 plc for the year ended 31 May 2009 which comprise In our opinion the information given in the Directors the consolidated income statement, the consolidated Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statement of recognised income and expense, the statements are prepared is consistent with the Group consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash financial statements.
flow statement, the Group accounting policies and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by Exception been applied in their preparation is applicable law and We have nothing to report in respect of the following: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Responsibilities on page 32, the Directors are responsible law are not made: or for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
we have not received all the information and explanations Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements we require for our audit.
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards the Directors statement, on page 41, in relation to going Ethical Standards for Auditors.
concern: and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating for and only for the Companys members as a body in to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of accordance with Sections 495 and 496 of the Companies the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review.
Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Other Matter other purpose or to any other person to whom this report We have reported separately on the Parent Company is shown or into whose hands it may come save where financial statements of eaga plc for the year ended 31 May expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
2009 and on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to Bill MacLeod, Senior Statutory Auditor give reasonable assurance that the financial statements for and on behalf of  LLP are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether Newcastle Upon Tyne the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups 1 September 2009 circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on Financial Statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 May 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
