INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC We have audited the Group and Parent Company accounts the Basis of audit opinion accounts of Electrocomponents plc for the year ended 31 March We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 2009 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the the related notes.
These accounts have been prepared under Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the as having been audited.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys information and explanations which we considered necessary in order members those matters we are required to state to them in an to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent that the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors to be audited.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group accounts in accordance with applicable law and Opinion International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted In our opinion: by the EU, and for preparing the Parent Company accounts and the Group accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its profit for the year Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors then ended: Responsibilities on page 34. the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the Parent Company accounts give a true and fair view, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true as at 31 March 2009: and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in the Parent Company accounts and the part of the Directors accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the information given in the Directors Report is consistent the Directors Report is consistent with the accounts.
The information with the accounts.
given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has KPMG Audit Plc not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the Chartered Accountants information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information Registered Auditor specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other 8 Salisbury Square transactions is not disclosed.
London EC4Y 8BB 29 May 2009 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35
