BUsiness cORpORate financial OVeRVieW ReVieW GOVeRnance statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Filtrona plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies statements the financial statements of Filtrona plc for the Act 2006 year ended 31 December 2009 consisting of the Consolidated In our opinion: Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and parent company Balance Sheet, the the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes.
Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the year for which the financial statements are prepared is preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law consistent with the financial statements: and and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement by the European Union EU.
The financial reporting framework set out on pages 62 to 69 with respect to internal control and that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company risk management systems in relation to financial reporting financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Matters on which we are required to report by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
in our opinion: To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been or for the opinions we have formed.
received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited are not As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Statement set out on page 52, the Directors are responsible for certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied are not made: or that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit we have not received all the information and explanations we the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and require for our audit: or International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards the Company.
APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is the Directors statement, set out on page 69, in relation to provided on the APBs web-site at www.
going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 62 Opinion on financial statements relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions In our opinion: of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as Richard Broadbelt Senior Statutory Auditor at 31 December 2009 and of the Groups profit for the year for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor then ended: Chartered Accountants the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 25 February 2010 in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 8 Salisbury Square Accounting Practice: London EC4Y 8BB the financial statements have been prepared in accordance United Kingdom with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
107 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I financial statements 108 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I FinanCial STaTemenTS Filtrona is a leading international supplier of Filtronas global network includes 3,160 employees, Advisors Details and Investor Information speciality plastic and fibre products with four 29 principal manufacturing facilities, 41 sales operating divisions.
com & distribution operations and six research & Secretary and Registered Office Jon Green developments centres.
Avebury House, 201249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK9 1AU Company Number 05444653 www.
com Financial advisor and stockbroker JPMorgan Cazenove 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA Solicitors Protection & Finishing Products Porous Technologies Slaughter and May A global market leading provider of protection and finishing solutions, The leading global technology developer and manufacturer One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY manufacturing and distributing plastic injection moulded, dip of custom bonded fibre and hydrophilic foam components.
moulded, adhesive-coated foam and metal products.
40 operating Its components handle fluid and vapour and deliver high value auditor units in 14 countries serve a very broad base of customers with a and precision performance to many of the most well-known KPMG Audit Plc 8 Salisbury Square, London EC4Y 8BB rapid supply of primarily plastic products for protection and finishing consumer, industrial and medical brand owners in the world.
applications in industries such as hydraulics, pneumatics, oil and gas, The components are used in a wide range of product applications Principal bankers electrical controls, point of purchase and tubular metal products.
including medical diagnostics and wound care, inkjet printer Lloyds TSB Bank plc cartridges, writing instruments, and air fresheners.
25 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7HN 2009 highlighTS 2009 highlighTS The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Strong cash conversion Positive impact of new products 280 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4RB % % Sustained marketing investment 16.7 15.9m Strong cash conversion 22.0 14.5m Registrar 1 1 2 2 Operating margin Operating profit Operating margin Operating profit 18% increase in new accounts Reinbek refurbishment already If you have any questions about your shareholding, please contact, in the first instance: showing benefits Computershare Investor Services plc Increasing revenue in China PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH Successful integration of Lendell Telephone 0870 702 0003 Computershare also has an internet facility whereby shareholders in Filtrona plc are able to access details of their shareholding.
You can access this service at www.
Electronic communication As an alternative to receiving documentation through the post, the Company offers shareholders the option to receive by email, a notification that shareholder documents including the Annual Report, Notice of Shareholder Meetings, Proxy Forms etc.
are available for access on the Companys website.
If you wish to make such an election, you should register online at www.
If you have already made such an election you need take no further action.
Registration is entirely voluntary and you may request a hard copy of the shareholder documents or change your election at any time.
Coated & Security Products Filter Products CReST Share Settlement System The global market leading producer of high quality self-adhesive tear This division is the only global independent cigarette filter supplier.
The Company entered the CREST system on listing and the ordinary shares are available for settlement in CREST.
As the membership tape and a growing supplier of products and technologies for brand The 12 worldwide locations, including a UK-based research system is voluntary, shareholders not wishing to participate can continue to hold their own share certificates.
protection, document authentication, personal identification and track facility and three regional development centres, provide a flexible and trace.
Customers in over 100 countries are served from facilities infrastructure strategically positioned to serve the cigarette industry.
annual general meeting operating in six countries.
Also includes plastic profile extrusion The division supplies a wide range of value adding high quality The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate West, Milton Keynes, activities in The Netherlands.
innovative filters from monoacetate to multi-segment speciality Buckinghamshire MK9 2HQ on Thursday 22 April 2010 at 12 noon.
filters with sophisticated adsorbent materials.
Financial calendar 2010 Annual General Meeting 22 April 2010 2009 highlighTS 2009 highlighTS 1st Interim Management Statement 22 April 2010 Final dividend 30 April 2010 Operating margin growth Improved conversion costs Half Year Report 26 August 2010 % % Success in the security label market Continued investment in research & 14.0 12.2m 10.9 22.1m 1 1 1 1 development facilities Operating margin Operating profit Operating margin Operating profit New business for authentication system Development of new proprietary Resilient tear tape performance products Increased diversity of international customer base 1 Before intangible amortisation and major restructuring costs 1 Before intangible amortisation and major restructuring costs 2 Before intangible amortisation Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 Our strategy Filtronas strategic goal is to continue to grow profitably for the benefit of its shareholders by investing organically in each of its divisions and by acquisition within its higher margin, higher growth potential businesses.
Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 Strategic Business Our vision Long-term priorities strengths goal 01 Grow profitably Strong international market positions 02 Long-term Invest customer organically relationships Well invested To develop and 03 exible global deliver innovative Acquire in infrastructure Shareholder and value added selected value products and Experienced markets services worldwide management team 04 Build on core Reputation competencies for quality and innovation Operational 05 eciency Filtrona plc Deliver longterm value Avebury House 201-249 Avebury Boulevard Milton Keynes MK9 1AU United Kingdom T 44 0 1908 359100 F 44 0 1908 359120 E enquiries@filtrona.
