Corporate Governance Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 61 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Ferrexpo plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the We have audited the financial statements of the Group and Companies Act 2006 parent company for the year ended 31 December 2009 which In our opinion: comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated statement has been properly prepared in accordance with the of financial position, the Consolidated statement of cash flows, Companies Act 2006: and the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and the parent the information given in the Directors Report for the financial company statement of financial position and the related notes 1 year for which the financial statements are prepared is to 44 for the Group financial statements and notes 1 to 7 for the consistent with the financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Matters on which we are required to report by exception financial statements is applicable law and International Financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you preparation of the parent company financial statements is if, in our opinion: applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards adequate accounting records have not been kept by the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a the parent company financial statements and the part of the body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might agreement with the accounting records and returns: or state to the Companys members those matters we are required certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
are not made: or To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or we have not received all the information and explanations we assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the require for our audit.
Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 58. in relation to Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors going concern: and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Statement set out on page 60, the Directors are responsible for the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group and parent financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Ernst & Young LLP Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Bob Forsyth Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Scope of the audit of the financial statements London An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 22 March 2010 disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 62 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 63 64 Consolidated Income Statement 65 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 66 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 67 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 68 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 69 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information 115 Glossary 118 Shareholder Information Financial Statements
