The GAME Group plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2008-2009 Independent Auditors Report to the shareholders of The GAME Group plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements of The GAME Group plc for the 53 weeks ended 31 January 2009 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related Group notes, the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related Parent Company notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and for preparing the Parent Company financial statements and Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement re ects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises only the Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Business Review, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Our report has been prepared pursuant to the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
No person is entitled to rely on this report unless such a person is a person entitled to rely upon this report by virtue of and for the purpose of the Companies Act 1985 or has been expressly authorised to do so by our prior written consent.
Save as above, we do not accept responsibility for this report to any other person or for any other purpose and we hereby expressly disclaim any and all such liability.
2 213541 GAME REPORT P64-79 N. indd 78 13541 GAME REPORT P64-79 N. indd 78 2 26 5 09 10:51:14 6 5 09 10:51:14 Our results Independent Auditors Report The GAME Group plc 79 continued Annual Report and Accounts 2008-2009 Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 January 2009 and of its pro t for the 53 weeks then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 January 2009: the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 22 April 2009 Customer focus, evolving market.
