178 Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Matters on which we are required to report GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December 2009 by exception which comprise the Company Balance Sheet UK GAAP and the We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters related notes A-H.
The financial reporting framework that has where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United our opinion: Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Accepted Accounting Practice.
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not Respective responsibilities of directors and been received from branches not visited by us: or auditors the parent company financial statements and the part of As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in set out on page 177, the directors are responsible for the agreement with the accounting records and returns: or preparation of the parent company financial statements and for certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility are not made: or is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance we have not received all the information and explanations we with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing require for our audit.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matters This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of only for the companys members as a body in accordance with GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December 2009.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other The Company has passed a resolution in accordance with section purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditors responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to name should not be stated.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable  LLP assurance that the financial statements are free from material Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an London assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 24th February 2010 the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31st December 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: t he part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and t he information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
GSK Annual Report 2009 Financial statements P91P182
