Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 93 Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Opinion on other matter prescribed by the GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December 2009 which Companies Act 2006 comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance the financial year for which the Group financial statements are sheet, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Consolidated cash flow statement, and the related notes 1-44.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Matters on which we are required to report preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting by exception Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, auditors in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors statement of certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law responsibilities set out on page 92, the directors are responsible for are not made: or the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being w e have not received all the information and explanations we satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to require for our audit.
audit the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices the Directors statement, set out on page 92, in relation to Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
going concern: and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Other matters responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to We have reported separately on the parent company financial whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
31st December 2009 and on the information in the Directors Scope of the audit of the financial statements Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and The Company has passed a resolution in accordance with section disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditors assurance that the financial statements are free from material name should not be stated.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting  LLP estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the financial statements.
London 24th February 2010 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31st December 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
