Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of The Matters on which we are required to report by exception Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 27 June 2009, which We have nothing to report in respect of the following: comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to balance sheet, the Consolidated cashflow statement, the you if, in our opinion: Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes 1 to 29.
The financial reporting framework certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and are not made: or International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by we have not received all the information and explanations we the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: in accordance with Sections 495, 496 and 497 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might the Directors statement, set out on page 61 and 62, in relation state to the Companys members those matters we are required to going concern: and to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Other matters As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities We have reported separately on the parent company financial Statement, set out on page 62, the Directors are responsible for statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 27 the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being June 2009 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to Report that is described as having been audited.
audit the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Debbie O Hanlon Senior Statutory Auditor assurance that the financial statements are free from material For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Newcastle upon Tyne assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied 2 September 2009 and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 27 June 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on the other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 63
