the accounts have been prepared in Independent auditors report to accordance with the requirements of the the members of Greggs plc Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS We have audited the accounts of Greggs plc Regulation.
for the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2010 set out on pages 39 to 76.
The financial reporting framework Opinion on other matters prescribed by that has been applied in their preparation is the Companies Act 2006 applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as In our opinion: regards the Parent Company accounts, as applied the part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with the provisions of the Companies to be audited has been properly prepared in Act 2006. accordance with the Companies Act 2006: This report is made solely to the Companys the information given in the directors report members, as a body, in accordance with for the financial year for which the accounts Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. are prepared is consistent with the accounts.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those Matters on which we are required to matters we are required to state to them in an report by exception auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the We have nothing to report in respect of the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept following: or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions to report to you if, in our opinion: we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been Respective responsibilities of directors kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received and auditors from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Directors the Parent Company accounts and the part Responsibilities Statement set out on page 36, the of the Directors Remuneration Report to directors are responsible for the preparation of the be audited are not in agreement with the accounts and for being satisfied that they give a accounting records and returns: or true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the certain disclosures of directors remuneration accounts in accordance with applicable law and specified by law are not made: or International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
we have not received all the information and Those standards require us to comply with the explanations we require for our audit.
Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the accounts the directors statement, set out on page 36, A description of the scope of an audit of in relation to a going concern: and accounts is provided on the APBs website at the part of the Corporate Governance www.
Statement on page 26 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine Opinion on accounts provisions of the June 2008 Combined In our opinion: Code specified for our review.
the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Nick Plumb Senior Statutory Auditor Companys affairs as at 2 January 2010 and of for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, the Groups profit for the year then ended: Statutory Auditor the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Chartered Accountants adopted by the EU: Quayside House the Parent Company accounts have been 110 Quayside properly prepared in accordance with Newcastle upon Tyne IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied NE1 3DX in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and 18 March 2010 37
