Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 55 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HALFORDS GROUP plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Halfords Group We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider plc for the 53 weeks to 3 April 2009 which comprise the Consolidated whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated The other information comprises only the Financial and Operational Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Highlights, Halfords at a Glance, Chairmans Statement, Business Shareholders Equity, the Accounting Policies and the related notes.
Review, Finance Directors Report, Corporate Social Responsibility, These Group financial statements have been prepared under the The Board, Directors Report, Corporate Governance, Directors accounting policies set out therein.
Remuneration Report, Statement of Directors Responsibilities, Independent Auditors Report the Group, Consolidated Income We have reported separately on the Company financial statements Statement, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Halfords Group plc for the 53 weeks to 3 April 2009 and on the of Changes in Shareholders Equity, Consolidated Cash Flow information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as Statement, Notes to Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Accounting having been audited.
Policies, Notes to the Financial Statements, Five Year Record, Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Independent Auditors Report the Company, Company Balance Sheet, Accounting Policies, Notes to the Financial Statements, The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and Shareholder Information, Company Information and all elements the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
do not extend to any other information.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in Basis of audit opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial disclosed.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we information presented in the Chairmans Statement, Business Review also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in and the Finance Directors Report that is cross-referred from the the Group financial statements.
Business Review section of the Directors Report.
Opinion In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received In our opinion: all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if n the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the other transactions is not disclosed.
state of the Groups affairs as at 3 April 2009 and of its profit and We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects cash flows for the 53 weeks then ended: the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined n the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required Regulation: and to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the n the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Group financial statements.
 LLP CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND REGISTERED AUDITORS BIRMINGHAM 10 JUNE 2009 15953HALFORDS.
