Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Heritage Oil Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Heritage Oil Plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, and in respect of reporting on the Corporate Governance Report, on terms that have been agreed.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and, in respect of reporting on the Corporate Governance Report, those matters that we have agreed to state to them in our report, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As described in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 64, the Companys Directors are responsible for preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with the relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
In addition to our audit of the financial statements, the Directors have engaged us to review their Corporate Governance Statement as if the Company were required to comply with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority applicable to companies incorporated in the UK in relation to those matters.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2008 specified for our review by those rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required by the terms of our engagement to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors Report and other information accompanying the financial statements and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements within it.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its loss for the year then ended: and the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
68 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Matters on which we are required to report by exception under the terms of our engagement We have nothing to report in respect of the following: In addition to our audit of the financial statements, the Directors have engaged us to review their Corporate Governance Statement as if the Company were required to comply with the Listing Rules applicable to companies incorporated in the UK in relation to those matters.
Under the terms of our engagement we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 64, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 48 to 54 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2008 specified for our review.
Jimmy Daboo for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants 29 April 2010 69
