Independent auditors report on the consolidated Group accounts We have audited the Group financial statements of Galiform Plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2009 which comprise the We have nothing to report in respect of the following.
Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised if, in our opinion: Income and Expense and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is U certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards are not made: or IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
U we have not received all the information and explanations we This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, require for our audit.
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
U the directors statement contained within the Corporate To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Governance Report in relation to going concern: and assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the U the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June or for the opinions we have formed.
2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Other matters As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities We have reported separately on the parent company Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements of Galiform Plc for the 52 weeks ended Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 26 December 2009 and on the information in the Directors true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require John Adam Senior Statutory Auditor us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Standards for Auditors.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Scope of the audit of the financial statements London, United Kingdom An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 3 March 2010 disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: U give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 26 December 2009 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended: U have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and U have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
