Financial statements Report of the Auditors We have audited the Group Financial statements of Inchcape plc for Matters on which we are required to report by exception the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the consolidated We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, income, the consolidated statement of financial position, in our opinion: consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law statement of cash flows, the accounting policies and the related are not made: or notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial we have not received all the information and explanations we Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
require for our audit: or a corporate governance statement has not been prepared Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors by the parent Company.
As explained more fully in the statement of the Directors r esponsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: of the Group Financial statements and for being satisfied that the Directors statement, in relation to going concern: and they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial statements in accordance with applicable the part of the corporate governance statement relating to law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and We have reported separately on the parent Company Financial only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with statements of Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume is described as having been audited.
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Paul Cragg Scope of the audit of the Financial statements Senior Statutory Auditor An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts for and on behalf of  LLP and disclosures in the Financial statements sufficient to give Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors reasonable assurance that the Financial statements are free London from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
9 March 2010 This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial statements.
Opinion on Financial statements In our opinion the Group Financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the Group Financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group Financial statements: and the information given in the corporate governance statement with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial statements.
136 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
