Independent AudItors report to the Members of Informa plc We have audited the Group financial statements the form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate financial statements of Informa plc for the year ended governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
31 December 2009 which comprise the Consolidated Income We read the other information contained in the Annual Report Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive as described in the contents section and consider whether it is Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the the implications for our report if we become aware of any Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related Notes 1 apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the to 38.
These financial statements have been prepared under financial statements.
the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is Basis of audit opinion described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have reported separately on the parent company financial Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing statements of Informa plc for the period from 11 March 2009 Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, to 31 December 2009. of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the body, in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies Jersey significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether might state to the Companys members those matters we the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit the information and explanations which we considered work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free respective responsibilities of directors and auditors from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other The Directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with the overall adequacy of the presentation of information applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards in the financial statements and the part of the Directors IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and for preparing Remuneration Report to be audited.
the Directors Remuneration Report are set out in the Statement opinion of Directors Responsibilities.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: and statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We also the Group financial statements have been properly prepared report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' Report is not in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
deloitte LLp Although not required to do so, the directors have voluntarily Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors chosen to make a Corporate Governance Statement detailing London, United Kingdom the extent of their compliance with the 2008 Combined Code.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement 2 March 2010 reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2008 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 59
