2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Opinion on financial statements Inmarsat plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated at 31 December 2009 and of its pro t for the year then ended: Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 33. have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as The financial reporting framework that has been applied in adopted by the European Union: and their preparation is applicable law and International Financial have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Act 2006 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for to the Companys members those matters we are required to the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Matters on which we are required to report by exception the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this We have nothing to report in respect of the following: report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of certain disclosures of Directors remuneration speci ed by law the consolidated financial statements and for being satis ed that are not made: or they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the we have not received all the information and explanations we consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable require for our audit.
law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Directors statement contained within the Statement on Scope of the audit of the financial statements Corporate Governance in relation to going concern: and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts the part of the Statement on Corporate Governance relating and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Combined Code speci ed for our review.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Other matter policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the statements of Inmarsat plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
that is described as having been audited.
Panos Kakoullis FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 9 March 2010 Inmarsat plc 55 Annual report and accounts 2009
