GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statements of Directors responsibilities and Independent auditors report 59 Independent auditors report to the members of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of InterContinental Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2009 which Companies Act 2006 comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement of In our opinion: comprehensive income, the Group statement of changes in equity, the information given in the Directors Report for the financial the Group statement of financial position, the Group statement of year for which the financial statements are prepared is cash flows, accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 34.
The consistent with the Group financial statements: and financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the information given in the Corporate Governance statement preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting set out on pages 40 to 44 with respect to internal control and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, processes and about share capital structures is consistent in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. with the financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to Matters on which we are required to report them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest by exception extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We have nothing to report in respect of the following: to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, have formed.
in our opinion: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law Respective responsibilities are not made: or of Directors and auditors we have not received all the information and explanations we As explained more fully in the Statements of Directors require for our audit: or responsibilities set out on page 58, the Directors are responsible a Corporate Governance statement has not been prepared by for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being the Company.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Directors statement, set out on page 58, in relation to going Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices concern: and Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance statement, on pages 40 to 44, relating to the Companys compliance with the nine Scope of the audit of the financial statements provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and our review.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Other matters misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an We have reported separately on the parent company financial assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to statements of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and ended 31 December 2009 and on the information in the adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Jonathan Adam Stanton Senior statutory auditor Opinion on financial statements for and on behalf of Emst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor In our opinion the Group financial statements: London 15 February 2010 give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
