110 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Independent auditors report to the members of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December Companies Act 2006 2009 which comprise the Company balance sheet and the related In our opinion: notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has been the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted and Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, year for which the financial statements are prepared is in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to Matters on which we are required to report by them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest exception extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, have formed.
in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Respective responsibilities of Directors and company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been auditors received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the parent company financial statements and the part of the Responsibilities set out on page 109, the Directors are responsible Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and the accounting records and returns: or for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance are not made: or with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK we have not received all the information and explanations we and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the require for our audit.
Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the Group financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 31 December 2009. assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Jonathan Adam Stanton Senior statutory auditor the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant London accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall 15 February 2010 presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
