Independent auditors report to the members of Interserve Plc Introduction Opinion on other matter prescribed by the We have audited the Group financial statements of Interserve Companies Act 2006 Plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the In our opinion: Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance sheet, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to the Companies Act 2006: and 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International the information given in the Directors report for the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the financial year for which the financial statements are European Union.
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Matters on which we are required to report by Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so exception that we might state to the Companys members those We have nothing to report in respect of the following: matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility you if, in our opinion: to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the part of the Directors remuneration report to be the opinions we have formed.
audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility by law are not made: or statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that we have not received all the information and they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit explanations we require for our audit.
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the directors statement contained within the Financial review in relation to going concern: and Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the part of the Corporate governance statement relating disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the Other matters accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups We have reported separately on the parent company circumstances and have been consistently applied and financial statements of Interserve Plc for the year ended adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant 31 December 2009. accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit for the Stephen Griggs Senior Statutory Auditor year then ended: for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as London, United Kingdom adopted by the European Union: and 10 March 2010 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
