Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials Independent auditors report to the members of AMEC plc Registered number 1675285 OO We have audited the accounts of AMEC plc for the year the consolidated and parent company accounts have ended 31 December 2009 set out on pages 58 to 111.
The been prepared in accordance with the requirements financial reporting framework that has been applied in the of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the preparation of the consolidated accounts is applicable law consolidated accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Opinion on other matters prescribed by the as adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework Companies Act 2006 that has been applied in the preparation of the parent In our opinion: company accounts is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
OO the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with This report is made solely to the companys members, the Companies Act 2006: and as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been OO the information given in the Directors Report for the undertaken so that we might state to the companys financial year for which the consolidated and parent members those matters we are required to state to them company accounts are prepared is consistent with the in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the consolidated and parent company accounts.
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Matters on which we are required to report assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, as a body, for our audit by exception work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report Respective responsibilities of directors to you if, in our opinion: and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities OO adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Statement set out on page 112, the directors are parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have responsible for the preparation of the consolidated and not been received from branches not visited by us: or parent company accounts and for being satisfied that they OO the parent company accounts and the part of the give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in consolidated and parent company accounts in accordance agreement with the accounting records and returns: or with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to OO certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical by law are not made: or Standards for Auditors.
OO we have not received all the information and Scope of the audit of the consolidated and explanations we require for our audit.
parent company accounts Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: A description of the scope of an audit of consolidated and OO the directors statement, set out on page 112, in relation parent company accounts is provided on the APBs to going concern: and web-site at www.
OO the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Opinion on consolidated and parent relating to the companys compliance with the nine company accounts provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified In our opinion: for our review.
OO the consolidated and parent company accounts give a Richard Pinckard Senior Statutory Auditor true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2009 and Chartered Accountants of the groups profit for the year then ended: St James Square OO the consolidated accounts have been properly prepared Manchester in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: M2 6DS OO the parent company accounts have been properly 4 March 2010 prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 113
