Independent Auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc We have audited the Group and Company financial statements the Basis of audit opinion financial statements of J Sainsbury plc for the 52 weeks ended We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 21 March 2009 which comprise the Group income statement, the on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Group and Company Statements of recognised income and Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence expense, the Group and Company Balance sheets, the Group and relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Company Cash flow statements and the related notes.
These and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also financial statements have been prepared under the accounting includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, the Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards information and explanations which we considered necessary in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Statement of Directors responsibilities.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are free from material Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Opinion Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving In our opinion: this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior of the state of the Groups affairs as at 21 March 2009 and consent in writing.
of its profit and cash flows for the 52 weeks then ended: the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 21 March 2009 properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, and of its cash flows for the 52 weeks then ended: as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance information given in the Directors report is consistent with the with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and report includes the information presented in the Business review the information given in the Directors report is consistent with that is cross referred from the Business review section of the the financial statements.
 LLP In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all London the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 12 May 2009 information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Statement of corporate governance reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Notes We read other information contained in the Annual Report and a The maintenance and integrity of the J Sainsbury plc website consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters statement, the Business review, the Directors report, the Statement and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any of corporate governance, the unaudited part of the Remuneration changes that may have occurred to the financial statements report and all of the other information listed on the contents page.
since they were initially presented on the website.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any and dissemination of financial statements may differ from other information.
42 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Independent Auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc
