Independent auditors report to the members of J D Wetherspoon plc We have audited the financial statements of Opinion on financial statements J D Wetherspoon plc for the 52 weeks ended In our opinion the financial statements: 26 July 2009 which comprise the income statement, the statement of recognised income and expenses, the give a true and fair view of the state of the companys cash flow statement, the balance sheet and the related affairs as at 26 July 2009 and of its profit and cash flows notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been for the year then ended: applied in their preparation is applicable law and have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and as adopted by the European Union.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Statement set out on page 48, the directors are Companies Act 2006 responsible for the preparation of the financial statements In our opinion: and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be accordance with applicable law and International audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards the Companies Act 2006: and require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards the information given in the Directors Report for the Ethical Standards for Auditors.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in Matters on which we are required to report accordance with Sections 495 to 497 of the Companies by exception Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving We have nothing to report in respect of the following: these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where to you if, in our opinion: expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or The maintenance and integrity of the company's Web site returns adequate for our audit have not been received is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out from branches not visited by us: or by the auditors does not involve consideration of these the financial statements and the part of the Directors matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to with the accounting records and returns: or the financial statements since they were initially presented certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified on the Web site.
by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the explanations we require for our audit.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the financial statements the directors statement, set out on pages 47 to 52, An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts in relation to going concern: and and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement give reasonable assurance that the financial statements relating to the companys compliance with the nine are free from material misstatement, whether caused by provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether for our review.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor overall presentation of the financial statements.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 11 September 2009 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 43
