Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 105 Independent Auditors Report to the members of JKX Oil & Gas plc We have audited the parent company financial Opinion on other matters prescribed by the statements of JKX Oil & Gas Plc for the year ended 31st Companies Act 2006 December 2009 which comprise the Company balance In our opinion: sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be framework that has been applied in their preparation audited has been properly prepared in accordance with is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting the Companies Act 2006: and Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial Respective responsibilities of directors and statements are prepared is consistent with the parent auditors company financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 104, the directors are Matters on which we are required to report by responsible for the preparation of the parent company exception financial statements and for being satisfied that they We have nothing to report in respect of the following give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to parent company financial statements in accordance with report to you if, in our opinion: applicable law and International Standards on Auditing adequate accounting records have not been kept by the UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply parent company, or returns adequate for our audit with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards have not been received from branches not visited by for Auditors.
us: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared the parent company financial statements and the part for and only for the companys members as a body in of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies are not in agreement with the accounting records and Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving returns: or these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this certain disclosures of directors remuneration report is shown or into whose hands it may come save specified by law are not made: or where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Other matter and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to We have reported separately on the group financial give reasonable assurance that the financial statements statements of JKX Oil & Gas Plc for the year ended 31st are free from material misstatement, whether caused by December 2009. fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Mark King Senior Statutory Auditor companys circumstances and have been consistently for and on behalf of applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of  LLP significant accounting estimates made by the directors: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys Notes affairs as at 31st December 2009: a The maintenance and integrity of the JKX Oil & Gas plc website have been properly prepared in accordance with United is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any have been prepared in accordance with the changes that may have occurred to the financial statements requirements of the Companies Act 2006. since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
