Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 69 Independent Auditors Report to the members of JKX Oil & Gas plc We have audited the group financial statements of JKX Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Oil & Gas plc for the year ended 31st December 2009 Companies Act 2006 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the In our opinion the information given in the Directors consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Report for the financial year for which the group consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement financial statements are prepared is consistent with the of changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow group financial statements.
statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation Matters on which we are required to report by is applicable law and International Financial Reporting exception Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report Respective responsibilities of directors and to you if, in our opinion: auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities certain disclosures of directors remuneration Statement set out on page 68, the directors are specified by law are not made: or responsible for the preparation of the group financial we have not received all the information and statements and for being satisfied that they give a true explanations we require for our audit.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with applicable Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: law and International Standards on Auditing UK and the directors statement, set out on page 51, in relation Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with to going concern: and the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine This report, including the opinions, has been prepared provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for and only for the companys members as a body in for our review.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving Other matter these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for We have reported separately on the parent company any other purpose or to any other person to whom this financial statements of JKX Oil & Gas plc for the year report is shown or into whose hands it may come save ended 31st December 2009 and on the information in where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Mark King Senior Statutory Auditor and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to for and on behalf of give reasonable assurance that the financial statements  LLP are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether London the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups 12th April 2010. circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the Notes overall presentation of the financial statements.
a The maintenance and integrity of the JKX Oil & Gas plc website Opinion on financial statements is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by In our opinion the group financial statements: the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any give a true and fair view of the state of the groups changes that may have occurred to the financial statements affairs as at 31st December 2009 and of its profit and since they were initially presented on the website.
cash flows for the year then ended: b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs and dissemination of financial statements may differ from as adopted by the European Union: and legislation in other jurisdictions.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
