INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Johnson Matthey Public Limited Company We have audited the group and parent company accounts the accounts of Johnson Matthey Plc for the year ended 31st March 2009 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
These accounts have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the tabulated information and related footnotes set out in the directors Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 53 disclosing the directors emoluments and compensation, share options, long term incentive plan, pensions and other matters specified by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the directors Remuneration Report, the Corporate Governance statement and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU are set out in the Responsibility of Directors statement on page 54.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the accounts.
In addition we report to you, if in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the group accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31st March 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: the parent company accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31st March 2009: the accounts and the part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the accounts.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 3rd June 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 55 ACCOUNTS
