King sher plc Annual Report 88 Independent auditors report to and Accounts 2008 09 the members of Kingfi sher plc We have audited the Group financial statements of In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, Opinion King sher plc for the year ended 31 January 2009 we have not received all the information and In our opinion: which comprise the Consolidated income explanations we require for our audit, or if information the Group financial statements give a true and statement, the Consolidated statement of speci ed by law regarding directors remuneration fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted recognised income and expense, the Consolidated and other transactions is not disclosed.
by the European Union, of the state of the balance sheet, the Consolidated cash ow Groups affairs as at 31 January 2009 and of We review whether the Corporate Governance statement and the related notes.
These Group its pro t and cash ows for the year then ended: Statement re ects the Companys compliance with financial statements have been prepared under the Group financial statements have been the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 the accounting policies set out therein.
properly prepared in accordance with the speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS We have reported separately on the Parent Financial Services Authority, and we report if it Regulation: and Company financial statements of King sher plc does not.
We are not required to consider whether the information given in the Directors Report is for the year ended 31 January 2009 and on the Boards statements on internal control cover consistent with the Group financial statements.
the information in the Directors Remuneration all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the report that is described as having been audited.
effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance  LLP procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Respective responsibilities of directors London and auditors We read other information contained in the Annual 25 March 2009 The directors responsibilities for preparing the Report and consider whether it is consistent with Annual Report and the Group financial statements the audited Group financial statements.
The other in accordance with applicable law and International information comprises only the Chairmans statement, Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the Financial review, Our business and our markets, by the European Union are set out in the Directors the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Statement of Responsibility.
report and all the other information listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications for Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial our report if we become aware of any apparent statements in accordance with relevant legal misstatements or material inconsistencies with and regulatory requirements and International the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This do not extend to any other information.
report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as Basis of audit opinion a body in accordance with Section 235 of the We conducted our audit in accordance with Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
International Standards on Auditing UK and We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
assume responsibility for any other purpose or An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of to any other person to whom this report is shown evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures or into whose hands it may come save where in the Group financial statements.
It also includes expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the We report to you our opinion as to whether the preparation of the Group financial statements, Group financial statements give a true and fair and of whether the accounting policies are view and whether the Group financial statements appropriate to the Groups circumstances, have been properly prepared in accordance consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether We planned and performed our audit so as to in our opinion the information given in the Directors obtain all the information and explanations which report is consistent with the Group financial we considered necessary in order to provide statements.
The information given in the Directors us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable report includes that speci c information presented assurance that the Group financial statements are in the Financial review, Risks, Our business and free from material misstatement, whether caused our markets and Key Performance Indicators that by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming is cross referred from the business review section our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Directors report.
of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
