statutory reports and finanCial statements independent auditors report to the members of ladbrokes plC We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Ladbrokes Matters on which we are required to report by exception plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Balance We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where Sheet and the related notes 1 to 18.
The financial reporting framework the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Accounting Practice.
from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement in accordance with Sections 495, 496 and 497 of the Companies Act with the accounting records and returns: or 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are to the Companys members those matters we are required to state not made: or to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest we have not received all the information and explanations we require extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility for our audit.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions Other matter we have formed.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Ladbrokes plc for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 123, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and R W Wilson Senior statutory auditor International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Statutory Auditor Standards for Auditors.
London Scope of the audit of the financial statements 18 February 2010 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
124 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp057-129.
