Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lamprell plc Report on the financial statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated and parent company financial statements of Lamprell plc which comprise the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as of 31 December 2009 and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity and consolidated and parent company cash flow statements for the year then ended and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
Directors responsibility for the financial statements The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with applicable Isle of Man law and International Financial Reporting Standards.
This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 15 of the Isle of Man Companies Act 1982 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Those Standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Companys and Groups compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2008 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups Corporate Governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We also review whether the Directors Remuneration Report includes the six disclosures specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
Opinion In our opinion: the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group as of 31 December 2009, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2009, and of its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931-2004: and the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931-2004.
 Douglas, Isle of Man 26 March 2010 Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 56 56
