77 Independent auditors report to the members of Marks and Spencer Group plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial We read other information contained in the Annual Report statements the financial statements of Marks and Spencer and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Group plc for the year ended 28 March 2009 which comprise the statements.
The other information comprises only the Overview, Consolidated and Company income statements, the Consolidated the Performance and KPIs, the Operating and financial review, and Company balance sheets, the Consolidated and Company the Corporate governance statement, the unaudited part of the cash flow statements, the Consolidated statement of recognised Remuneration report and all of the information listed on the contents income and expense, the Company statement of changes in page.
We consider the implications for our report if we become shareholders equity and the related Group and parent company aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the any other information.
information in the Remuneration report that is described as having Basis of audit opinion been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made Statement of directors responsibilities.
by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant adequately disclosed.
legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body information and explanations which we considered necessary in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assurance that the financial statements and the part of the assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person Remuneration report to be audited are free from material to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements of the Remuneration report to be audited.
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been Opinion properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 In our opinion: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Groups and the parent companys affairs as at 28 March 2009 financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report and of the Groups and the parent companys profit and cash includes that specific information presented in Performance and flows for the year then ended: KPIs and Business review.
the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined  LLP Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are London not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal 18 May 2009 control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
