Governance Nominations Committee Performance Chairmans report Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Further information Nominations Committee Chairman's report Our members Diversity The office of chairman of the Nominations Committee In noting the recommendations of the Davies Report, must be filled by the Chairman of the Board or an we support the principle that diversity can serve to independent non-executive Director.
At the request of strengthen a Group and we will continue to incorporate the Board, I chair the Committee, although I would not diversity in all of its aspects, including gender as an participate in any discussion concerning the appointment objective criterion for the selection of future Board of my successor.
Selection of female candidates to join the Board will be, in part, dependent on the pool of available The Nominations Committee comprises a majority of female candidates with the necessary skill base and independent non-executive Directors and meets as qualifications.
The ultimate decision will be based on necessary, but at least twice a year.
The Company merit and the contribution the chosen candidate will Secretary, and where appropriate, at the invitation of the bring to the working of the Board.
Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, Senior VicePresident Global Human Resources and other Review of the year professional advisers, attend meetings.
During the year, we reviewed: The Committee met four times in 2012.
The membership of the Committee throughout 2012 and s the composition of the Board and recommended the appointment of Sean Collins as an independent nonattendance at meetings is set out below.
Christopher executive Director to strengthen the Boards overall Keljik ceased to be a member of the Committee when he stepped down from the Board on 31 December financial expertise.
He was succeeded by Sean Collins.
having formerly been a senior audit and advisory partner at KPMG where he worked for more than 30 Committee members in 2012 years: and Meetings s potential candidates for the role of Senior Independent Members Eligible to attend Attended Director to succeed Christopher Keljik and Kwek Leng Beng Chairman 4 4 recommended to the Board the appointment of Sean Shaukat Aziz 4 4 Collins who took over as Senior Independent Director Christopher Keljik 4 4 on 1 January 2013.
Kwek Leng Peck 4 4 Alexander Waugh 4 4 We also considered the succession planning for, and appointments to, other senior management positions Our role and made recommendations to the Board which On behalf of the Board, we review the structure, size resulted in the appointment of: and composition of the Board, consider succession s Fabrizio Gaggio as Senior Vice President, Global Asset planning for Directors and other senior executives, taking Management on 4 June 2012: into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and what skills and expertise are needed on the s John Chang as Chief Financial Officer on Board in future.
We are responsible for identifying and 15 June 2012: nominating for the approval of the Board candidates to s John Arnott as Senior Vice President, Global Human fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
We do not Resources on 26 September 2012: and use an external search consultancy or open advertising, when identifying candidates for non-executive Director s Alan Scott as Company Secretary, in succession to vacancies, as we believe the experience of the Adrian Bushnell, on 11 October 2012.
Committee members and their knowledge of the markets, business and the sector in which we operate is Kwek Leng Beng sufficient.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 21 February 2013 Our terms of reference are available, on request, from the Company Secretary and on the Groups website at: www.
com corporate investor-centre 51 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012
