Audit Committee Chairman's report Our members Our role I took over as Chairman of the Audit Committee from Our terms of reference are available on request from the Nicholas George on 31 October 2012 and wish to thank Company Secretary and on the Groups website at him for his chairing of the Committee over the past three www.
Christopher Keljik ceased to be a member of the Committee when he stepped down from the Board on External audit 31 December 2012 and I would also like to thank him for KPMG Audit Plc has been the Companys auditor since his contribution to the work of the Committee.
We consider the appointment and re-appointment Attendance for scheduled 2012 meetings is shown of the external auditor and review their terms of below: appointment and negotiate fees on behalf of the Company prior to making recommendations and reCommittee members in 2012 appointment through the Board to the shareholders to Meetings consider at each annual general meeting.
Member Eligible to attend Attended 1 We are responsible for reviewing the independence Sean Collins Chairman 2 2 Nicholas George 5 5 and objectivity of the external auditor and have reported Christopher Keljik 5 5 to the Board that we consider that the auditors Alexander Waugh 5 5 independence and objectivity has been maintained.
We Note consider that the external auditor retain its independence 1 Sean Collins joined the Committee on 1 September 2012. on the basis of comparing the present audit to non-audit In addition to the scheduled meetings in the year, there service fees which in accordance with Company policy were also a number of ad hoc meetings.
Although not restricts the engagement of KPMG in relation to nonmembers of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer, audit services.
Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit, attend each meeting, as does the lead The external auditor is required to rotate its lead partner audit partner from our external auditor, who is not every five years and other partners that are responsible present when we discuss their performance and or for the Group and subsidiary audits every seven years.
Senior management from the Groups The lead audit partner, Stephen Masters, currently financial function are also normally invited to attend.
responsible for our audit is completing his second year.
The Board believes that between them the members of We agree the detailed scope of the external audit prior the Committee have broad commercial knowledge and to the commencement of the work and review the significant business experience.
The Board has scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
determined that both Nicholas George and I have recent Given its performance and the cost effectiveness of the relevant financial experience as required by the service it provides, we do not consider it necessary this provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
year to require the external auditor to tender for the After each Committee meeting, I report to the Board on audit.
We will continue to review this, particularly in view the main issues that the Committee has discussed.
of the recent revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of fees paid to KPMG and its associates are shown in note 6 to the accounts.
To analyse audit effectiveness, the Committee meets with management to discuss the performance of the external auditor without them being present.
Separate meetings are also held with the external auditor without the presence of any member of executive management.
48 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Performance Audit Committee Chairman's report Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Further information Financial reporting Internal audit We monitor and review the effectiveness of the We monitor the integrity, prior to submission to internal audit function: agree its annual work plan and the Board, of periodic financial statements, annual accounts, reports to shareholders and any other public review whether the function has the proper resources to enable it to satisfactorily complete such work plans.
We announcement concerning the Groups financial position, review status reports from Internal Audit and consider corporate governance statements and statements on managements response to any major finding, providing the Groups system of internal controls and report our support, if necessary, for any follow-up action required views to the Board to assist in its approval of the results and ensure that the function obtains free and announcements and the annual report.
unrestricted access to all Group activities, records, property and personnel necessary to fulfill its What we have done agreed objectives.
We reviewed and agreed a revised policy during the year on the provision of non-audit services by the auditor.
The The Head of Internal Audit produces a risk based Global Internal Audit work plan of hotel audits and updated policy is consistent with the Auditing Practices function by region and reports on regional and global Boards Ethical Standards No.
The policy is aimed at ensuring that the provision of non patterns that affects the Group as well as specific issues audit services does not have an impact on the external of interest in relation to systems and controls.
Our policy also Internal controls and risks identifies some types of engagement that the external auditor must not undertake.
It requires that individual We are responsible for reviewing, and conduct an engagements above a certain fee level may only be annual review of, the effectiveness of the Groups undertaken with the appropriate authority of the system of internal control and risk management Committee.
We receive regular reports on the non-audit procedures.
fees being provided and the cumulative total of non-audit Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, fees periodically.
The majority of non-audit work undertaken by KPMG during the year related to tax we review the Groups risk management strategy to ensure that any required remedial action on any related services where it was more cost effective to identified weaknesses is taken.
This includes a quarterly utilise their services.
A copy of the policy is available, on review of the risk register which contains the significant request, from the Company Secretary and on the risks faced by the Group and identifies their potential Groups website.
Where specific actions are agreed www.
com corporate investor-centre to mitigate risks to a level deemed acceptable, these are We have held regular private meetings with the Head of agreed within specific timeframes for delivery and are Internal Audit to complement the reports and monitored closely until fully implemented.
discussions at Audit Committee meetings and to ensure The system of internal controls audited by Internal that appropriate action is taken on issues arising from Audit and commented on by the external auditor from reports, including monitoring managements time to time encompass all controls including those responsiveness to the findings and recommendations of relating to financial reporting processes, operational and the internal auditors.
compliance controls and those relating to risk We have also considered the performance of the management processes.
Internal Audit function and have carried out a review We ensure that arrangements are in place for with the purpose of improving its effectiveness.
As a employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about result,  LLP has been possible fraud risk or wrong doing in financial reporting appointed in a co-sourcing capacity to improve the or other matters.
Where a whistleblowing incident risk-based approach to internal audit that we are seeking.
occurs, this is investigated by Internal Audit on a During the year we carried out a review and revised the confidential basis and in a proportionate manner.
whistleblowing policy to enhance confidentiality.
Appropriate actions are recommended and undertaken which are reported to the Committee.
49 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Audit Committee Chairman's report Audit Committee Chairman's report continued continued What we have done continued Effectiveness In addition to the above we reviewed, analysed, During the year, we carried out, through an externally discussed and promoted action plans to tackle various facilitated evaluation conducted by Linstock, an effectiveness review of the Committee which concluded risks pertinent to our industry and operations during the year.
These included: an enhanced global training that the Committee was effective in terms of our programme for anti-bribery and developing risk expertise and use of our time: further that we had been mitigation tools pertinent to the same, supporting new provided with sufficient resources to carry out our duties.
We have agreed the following priorities for 2013: training for UK and EU competition law: approving development plans for certain properties under asset s Establishing a shortlist of annual objectives.
management risk: adopting preliminary mitigation plans s Increased questioning of external audit.
to address IT risks: enhancing PCI security generally: obtaining improved coverage for cyber insurance: s More engagement with senior management of key achieving ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 for one of our functions, including presentations by Treasury, IT and UK operations with the intention of rolling out best HR at meetings of the Committee.
practice nationally in 2013 and sharing best practice s Improving the effectiveness of internal audit.
globally : and developing a standardised set of global operational procedures.
Sean Collins We also monitored tax based restructuring and the Chairman of the Audit Committee disclosure of asset values and received updates on the 21 February 2013 Bribery Act compliance, policies and processes to ensure that the procedures in place are adequate, as well as reports on material litigation facing the Group, treasury matters, ethics and whistleblowing, health and safety and the environment.
We reviewed: the inter-company charges and the accounting treatment of our associates, such as CDL Hospitality Trusts, the controls around significant capital expenditure projects, the impairment policy, the Groups approach to taxation, going concern reports and the annual report, together with half year and quarterly results for recommendation to the Board.
The Committee is increasing its focus on corporate governance matters and has considered the implications for the Group of the 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
50 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012
