Go Gov vern ernan ance ce Ch Chai airman rman s s o ov ver ervie view w What does good governance mean to National Express?
and that Board members work together effectively.
Dear shareholder, I will endeavour to carry on the good work of your former The Board believes that effective governance is essential to Chairman in this area.
protecting shareholder value and the sustainable growth of the Group.
We therefore seek to ensure that it is an integral National Express supports diversity throughout the Group as part of the way we do business and that it is fully embraced well as the Boardroom.
We work on the premise that talent by all our employees.
has no age, race or gender and is not ruled out by disability.
Our goal is for our people to reach their full potential and to As you will know, I have only recently joined the Board and give of their best as individuals and in teams.
took over from John Devaney as Chairman of the Company at the beginning of February this year.
I would like to thank In 2011 the review of the performance of the Board was John for the leadership and commitment he has shown carried out by an external facilitator and in 2012 the review in ensuring that good governance is in place across the was carried out internally.
Both reviews con rmed that the whole Group.
Board continued to operate effectively: further details of the recommendations that came out of these reviews are set This section of the report and accounts explains the out on page 57. various aspects of the governance of the Company, including reports on the work undertaken in 2012 by A description of the subjects considered by the Board in the Boards Committees.
2012 are set out on page 56 and it is likely we will have another busy year in 2013 as we wrestle with the ongoing The composition of the Board has continued to evolve.
dif cult macro-economic climate and continue to seek to In addition to my appointment, Miranda Curtis retired from grow the Group.
the Board and Jackie Hunt has joined it.
It is important that the Board has the correct balance of skills and experience Board Committee overview Audit Committee Nomination Committee Tim Score, Chairman Sir Andrew Foster, Committee Member Compliance 20% Non-Executive Director Appointment 40% Internal Audit 35% Chairmans Appointment 40% External Audit 40% Succession Planning 20% Other 5% Read more Read more 60 62 50 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements We continue to monitor the developments in corporate governance practice and will aim to comply with the new UK corporate governance requirements that come into effect in 2013.
I would like to encourage you to attend our annual general meeting at 2pm on 9 May 2013 at Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9AG and I look forward to meeting many of you that day.
Sir John Armitt, CBE Chairman 28 February 2013 Safety & Environment Committee Remuneration Committee Chris Muntwyler, Chairman Sir Andrew Foster, Chairman 30% 40% Governance Board Remuneration Environment 25% Compliance 20% Safety 45% Share Schemes 30% Other 10% Read more Read more 63 64 www.
