Directors report Business review Sustainability report continued at different levels across the organisation.
For example South Governance West Waters Managing for Success programme and Viridors The Pennon Sustainability Committee previously Corporate Fundamentals of Management and subsequent Management to Responsibility Committee is chaired by a Non-executive Director Leadership programmes, try to equip our managers of the future and comprises the Chief Executives of South West Water and with the necessary skills.
Viridor plus two further Non-executive Directors.
It is served and attended by senior management from both subsidiaries.
South West Water and Viridor appointed 22 apprentices and The Committee oversees the Pennon Groups requirement to graduate trainees during 2011, and South West Water will be conduct its business in a responsible manner.
Consequently creating 20 more apprenticeships in 2012, at a time when youth the Committee reviews the strategies, policies, management, unemployment is growing.
initiatives, objectives, targets and performance of the Pennon Key economic issues Group of companies in respect of environmental, social and Commitment to regional economies governance aspects.
During 2011 12 the Committee developed Pennons investment for long-term sustainable growth is delivering a new community relations and investment policy, scrutinised value for shareholders and stakeholders.
The Group companies both companies approach to carbon management, examined provide significant support for regional economies by working with sustainability in supply chains, and maintained its focus on hundreds of local suppliers to deliver essential infrastructure and to improving health and safety.
deliver and improve services for customers.
Both subsidiaries develop annual sustainability targets as part of As one of the largest employers in the region, South West Water business planning and budgeting, putting sustainability at the core employs 1,400 people, both directly and through its contact of the business.
Performance against these targets is reviewed centre subsidiary, Source Contact Management Limited.
South quarterly at executive management meetings, and by the Pennon West Water supports regional employment through a variety of Group Sustainability Committee.
external contracts with a particular focus on small businesses, Delivery of sustainability targets forms part of the remuneration as well as large service providers.
Through its 2 billion Clean package of Pennons senior executives and employees throughout Sweep investment, undertaken since privatisation, the company the Group.
has added significant value to the regions tourism industry by Verication enhancing the natural environment.
Pennons sustainability performance for 2011 12 has been South West Waters PUROS programme enables remote audited by Acona Partners LLP, an independent management management of assets and centralised planning.
PUROS has consultancy that specialises in the areas of sustainability and helped the company to deliver operational efficiencies and corporate responsibility.
outperform Ofwats Final Determination, the price limits and expenditure plans determined by Ofwat for South West Water South West Water and Viridor Sustainability reports for a five-year period.
The full 2012 Sustainability Reports for South West Water Viridors operations and continued growth also provide significant and Viridor will be published in July and August respectively regional economic and community benets throughout the UK.
and will be available to view at pennon-group.
co. uk and also The company directly employs over 3,000 people and provides on the subsidiaries websites.
Viridors investment programme to gradually replace landll services with increased recycling and renewable energy generation creates greater value in terms of jobs and skills.
For example, the Runcorn EfW facility will directly employ and provide training for up to 70 highly skilled people in the North West compared with around 15 people required to landll the equivalent waste volume.
The construction of the project has employed a daily average of 325 people on site, rising to 700 at its peak, and many more through the supply chain.
Achievements In addition to the 2012 PLC Sustainability Award, and to the achievements listed under each subsidiary companys business review, Pennon is listed in the FTSE4Good index.
In March 2012 the Group scored 3.8 out of 5 in the FTSE4Good Environmental, Social and Governance ratings assessment.
It was also the top ranked utility in four categories of the 2011 Britains Most Admired Company awards.
In January 2012 Pennon was listed as one of the 100 most sustainable companies in the world by Corporate Knights the company for clean capitalism.
38 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Governance Financial statements Trigon landll restoration, Dorset.
Sustainability KPIs South West Water Renewable Greenhouse gas Recycling Community RIDDOR Capital energy emissions data volumes support, incidence rate investment generation tCO e tonnes of sponsorship per 100,000 m 2 GWh dry solids and donations employees calendar year Actual number 20 Reassessed to include all imported electricity used and self-supplied renewable energy used on South West Water sites.
