Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance The UK Corporate Governance Code Code female down from 20% in 2012.
The Board evaluation would be more appropriate for the issued by the Financial Reporting Council reiterates its view that ensuring, facilitating and Company for 2012.
The Board recognises the FRC in May 2010 was applicable to the driving diversity in its broadest sense has helped benefits an external evaluation can bring to Company throughout the financial year propel the Companys success to date and it Board processes and will consider the ended 31 December 2012.
A new version of remains its practice to ensure that the recommendations of the Code in this regard for the Code, which applies to financial years Companys Top40 executive roles, in particular, its 2013 performance evaluations.
beginning on or after 1 October 2012, was are open to fresh thinking and must include This situation will be reviewed in the context of published by the FRC in September 2012 and, personnel from different global backgrounds a new CFO in Adrian Hennah and the potential although not immediately applicable, who bring new ideas to the table.
The appointment of additional Non-Executive the Board will report on early compliance Company values its freedom to retain a group Directors to the Board.
The benefit of giving where appropriate.
of people who, collectively, have the skills, any new directors time to settle in their roles experience and insight to achieve the 20 years on from Cadburys report, effective and to develop a good understanding of the Companys global vision and objectives and to corporate governance in UK corporations Company will be weighted against the benefit achieve long-term value growth without being remains high on the agenda for both company to be had from an externally facilitated hindered by a gender quota which does not boards and their Shareholders.
A decision will be taken as to take cognisance of the specific situation and increasing scrutiny and visibility of successes whether an externally facilitated evaluation will culture of the Company.
As at 12 February 2013: and failures.
The Board is sensitive to recent be of better benefit during 2013 or 2014.
Shareholder activism which has placed the 10% of the Board is female and 50% is A detailed internal evaluation was undertaken quality of boards and the level of their rewards non-UK nationals: for the year ended 2012.
A memo inviting open in the spotlight.
The Board takes seriously its 11% of the Executive Committee is female comments was circulated by the Company responsibility for balancing effective corporate and 78% is non-UK nationals: and Secretary to the Directors approximately six governance and delivery of long-term weeks before the meeting and I developed a Shareholder and stakeholder reward and Board 15% of the Top40 managers is female and framework for the evaluation meeting from the decisions are taken in light of these 70% is non-UK nationals.
These were distilled into the key considerations.
I am pleased to report to you Additionally, 17.5% of the Top40 managers can topics of corporate strategy, investor relations, directly on RBs governance activities.
be classed as black or minority ethnic.
When risk management, offsite Board meeting, time RB and Governance added to the number of female Top40 management, advance papers to the Board and The Board believes that implementing and managers, 32.5% of the Top40 managers come people and succession planning.
These issues maintaining high governance standards from the groups usually under-represented in were subsequently discussed at the following underpin our business objectives and our drive similar organisations.
review meeting together with a progress to create and maximise Shareholder value.
In update on the issues highlighted at the All RB employees understand their personal addition to compliance with the best practice 2011 evaluation.
responsibility for ensuring that diversity policies advice from regulatory and governance bodies, and programmes are actively pursued, Further information is set out in the the Board ensures that high ethical standards implemented and maintained.
The Company performance evaluation section on page 26 are reflected in business behaviour and culture does not set specific targets in absolute of this Report.
through RBs global Code of Conduct which percentage terms to deter artificiality in the enables management to add ethical and Succession Planning process: it measures progress year on year to behavioural standards to the legal and Succession planning to the Board and senior ensure an improving picture on gender balance regulatory obligations existing in the areas and management roles was one of the actions which contributes to the Companys growth communities in which we operate.
All arising from the 2010 Board evaluation and the and success.
As at 1 January 2013: employees and contractors are required to Board has given this due attention in successive complete an annual conduct training course 41% of the Groups professional population years.
One key aspect is the Directors desire to which includes the review of the global Code of of 7,640 is female: and ensure that members of RBs senior Conduct policy.
Statistics on employee management are given more Board and external 16% of the Groups Top400 population compliance are subject to review by the Audit exposure.
Progress continues to be made in this is female.
The Company also operates an area and part of that progress is to ensure active whistleblowing hotline, the reports from Gender balance has improved consistently diversity in succession planning.
Progress to date which are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Within the is reflected in the increased number of females Top400, gender balance has improved with that have joined the Top40 and other senior Annual Re-elections recruitment over the past 12 months.
management roles across the Group.
Additional All the Directors submitted themselves for information on RBs succession planning activities re-election at the 2012 AGM and will submit 16, 44 and 94 nationalities are represented in at senior management levels is at Resources on themselves for re-election at the 2013 AGM the Top40, Top400 and professional pages 12 to 13 of the Business Review.
and at future AGMs in compliance with populations respectively.
Composition of the Board Board Evaluation The current Board includes Peter Harf who, as a Diversity The Code recommends that FTSE 350  Director, was not The Company operates within a corporate companies should undertake an external independent on appointment.
Both Peter and I diversity and inclusion policy framework which evaluation at least once every three years.
The have served on the Board for more than nine is reviewed by the Executive Committee.
The 2009 to 2011 Board evaluations and the recent years.
In addition, Judith Sprieser and Kenneth Davies recommendation for boards to have a evaluation for the year ended 2012 were all Hydon have now been on the Board for a minimum of 25% female representation by undertaken internally.
The Board reported in period just exceeding nine years.
Judith and 2015 and the draft EU directive which sets an last years Annual Report its intention to Kenneth are also Chairs of the Remuneration objective for EU-listed companies to achieve undertake an external evaluation in 2012.
The Board 40% representation of the under-represented detailed review process was undertaken by the is keen to ensure compliance with the sex among Non-Executive Directors by 2018 Company Secretary and I reviewed a shortlist of recommendations of the Code but also for listed companies are aspirations which the external evaluation service providers.
Due to recognises that both Kenneth and Judith have Company considers carefully as part of its Company specific circumstances including the been diligent servants of the Company and recruitment exercises.
recent change of CFO which followed the continue to add value to the activities of the appointment of new Executive Directors in Liz Doherty stepped down from the Board and Company as a whole.
The Company is actively 2011, I decided, in consultation with my Board her executive role as CFO in February 2013.
The looking to recruit additional Non-Executive colleagues, that an internal performance resulting Board composition is now 10% Directors who will bring a range of diverse skills 22 2012 and perspective to the Boards activities but this The Board has authorised an explanation for The Board has instructed me to confirm that, will take time.
To ensure continuity and a the following areas where a strict interpretation notwithstanding the foregoing disclosures and successful transition, the Board has decided to might lead to a perception of non-compliance following the detailed performance evaluation recommend that Judith and Kenneth be with certain areas of the Code: undertaken during 2012, each Directors re-appointed to the Board at the 2013 AGM.
independence of thought and actions was I, as the Chairman, and Peter Harf, the The composition of the Board is one of the key assured and all decisions were taken to Deputy Chairman and Shareholderactions to which I continue to give my full promote the success of RB as a whole.
nominated Director, have both served on the attention and appropriate recommendations Board for more than nine years and will be Statement of Compliance with the Code will be made in due course.
offering ourselves for re-election at the 2013 The Corporate Governance Report on pages 24 As part of the review of the Boards AGM: and to 29 contains a summary of the Companys effectiveness, the documents setting out the governance arrangements as required under Kenneth Hydon and Judith Sprieser have matters reserved for the Board and the the Code.
Except as explained above, the now been on the Board for nine years each delegations to the CEO, together with the Company has complied with the Code and are currently the Chairs of the Audit and terms of reference for the Board Committees, throughout the year ended 31 December 2012.
The were reviewed and updated, where necessary, Company continues to benefit from the skills to ensure that they continue to reflect the spirit Adrian Bellamy and experience they bring to their roles and and emphasis of the Code, remain fit for Chairman they will offer themselves for re-election at purpose and relevant to how RB operates.
Whilst recognising that it is Explanation on Areas of Non-compliance important that the Board retains relevant strict interpretation knowledge and experience to continue its The Board recognises that the objective of the delivery of Shareholder value and to provide Code is to facilitate managements delivery of continuity and consistency in the business success in a transparent and development and application of the responsible manner.
The Code does not impose Companys strategic objectives, the Board a rigid set of rules and recognises that certain will review Kenneth and Judiths actions and behaviours do not automatically chairmanship of the respective Committees imply poor organisational governance.
and will continue its efforts to refresh the membership of the Board in the short-term.
