Governance: Letter from the chairman Letter from the chairman Dear Shareholder, In our pursuit of greater shareholder value, wemust Our efforts continue to focus on ensuring that the profile, maintain the highest standards of corporate governance.
skill sets, diversity and individual qualities of our In the section that follows, we focus on our corporate executives and non-executives can serve the current governance framework and practice, provide you andfuture needs of the business and the ever-changing with further details about the board and explain how it environment in which we operate.
carries out its responsibilities to safeguard the Groups We are a balanced and diverse board, comprising assets.
We acknowledge that the level of write-downs myselfas chairman, three executive directors and eight across our coal and aluminium businesses is deeply independent non-executive directors, all of whom meet disappointing.
Under Sam Walshs leadership, there is strict independence criteria.
The directors bring with greater focus, discipline and accountability throughout them truly international experience from a wide range the organisation.
This is underpinned byyour boards ofprofessional, business and public office backgrounds.
oversight of the robust corporate governance framework For Rio Tinto, diversity embraces a range of different to support our business and strategic delivery.
measures, including, of course, gender diversity.
We haveadopted a diversity and inclusion policy and set Strategy and risk management measurable objectives for achieving diversity across My role as chairman is to lead the board and to ensure theCompany, including on the board.
itis focused on its oversight of management and the delivery of our strategy.
Sam Walshs role as chief We provide new board members with a detailed induction executive is to focus on sustained operational excellence programme and extensive ongoing training, including and growth of the business and to do so with safety site visits.
In 2012, we visited our mineral sand and coal asthe utmost priority.
Our roles are complementary operations in Southern Africa.
We also visited our butdistinct.
The separation of executive and nonalumina refineries in Queensland and our underground executive accountabilities is essential to good copper mine in Northparkes, New South Wales, Australia.
governance: the executives, under Sams leadership, Board evaluation have an operational role, whereas the non-executives For the first time in 2012, the boards annual performance have an oversight role, ensuring accountability and evaluation was facilitated by an independent external exercising strong and deliberate challenge through the expert, and the board will devote considerable attention board decision-making process to ensure appropriate to the outcomes of this exercise, when the outcomes are control mechanisms are in place to safely implement shared in the first half of 2013.
I remain happy with the ourstrategy and plans.
overall effectiveness of the board and the contribution Your board devotes much of its time to reviewing, each member of the board is making, while recognising debating and challenging proposals for investment from the need for continuous improvement and a focus on management, as well as dealing with a wide range of accountability, values, strong governance and prudent other issues including safety and the Groups strategic management of risk in the delivery of our strategy.
direction, monitoring business performance, optimising We want to ensure we have people on your board capital allocation and expenditure whilst carefully for whom corporate governance is not simply a set evaluating the wide range of risks facing the business.
of rules: we need those who embrace it and appreciate Board composition that we want to manage the Group inthe interests of The board places great emphasis on succession planning, allour stakeholders.
Good governance is at the heart both non-executive and executive.
Even though we were of everything we do.
As you will read in the sections successful in bringing forward new talent to the executive that follow, the board committees, under the effective team in 2012, the impairments which we booked in early leadership of their respective chairs, carry out 2013 led to the departure of Tom Albanese and Doug important and demanding roles on the boards behalf Ritchie.
The board is grateful to Tomand Doug for their and facilitate the embedding of effective governance significant contributions to Rio Tinto over their many years across the organisation.
with the Group, and was pleased to appoint Sam Walsh Yours sincerely, as chief executive.
Sams many years of experience with the Company will ensure arapid and effective transition towards building a stronger business.
The board has alsoappointed Chris Lynch as chief financial officerdesignate.
He has a wealth of experience, both within andoutside the sector, and will be a great asset to the Executive Committee.
The board was also pleased to Jan du Plessis announce the promotion of Jean-Sbastien Jacques as Chairman chief executive, Copper, following Andrew Hardings move to lead the Iron Ore group.
