Governance 39 Governance Governance Chairmans introduction The International Advisory Board IAB Rolls-Royce is a global company and whilst that brings with it many The actions we have taken in 2012 exciting opportunities it also presents significant challenges.
We should leave no doubt that the Board have an International Advisory Board, which has been in place for some six years.
Its membership, which is listed on page 42, of Rolls-Royce will pursue the Codes comprises senior business and political leaders from all the areas in principles in the spirit in which they which we are building and developing our business and where we have a substantial presence, such as the US, China, India and are intended.
The IAB meets once a year and in 2012, it was held in Derby.
Its remit is to discuss the high-level issues and their potential impact on the Group.
This type of big picture discussion is vital for a company such as ours where our continued success depends on making very long-term investments.
Principal risks In 2012, the risk committee reconsidered and redefined the principal risks which we face in our business.
The resulting list on pages 18 to 19 has therefore been condensed to fit under just eight Sir Simon Robertson broad headings.
We believe this should provide a much clearer Chairman picture of the major areas of risk which our business faces.
A report from the chairman of the risk committee can be found on page 52.
In this report on governance, we will review the framework of rules and practices by which the Board of Rolls-Royce directed and Remuneration controlled its business during 2012.
In June 2012, the Government published a consultation on what companies must disclose in pay reports.
The directors In 2012, the Association of British Insurers whose members account remuneration report on pages 57 to 67 must necessarily address for a significant proportion of our shareholder base, issued a report existing legislation.
However, we have anticipated some of the new on board effectiveness, which pinpointed three areas that it requirements as described in the remuneration committee report believed were essential to improving board effectiveness namely: on page 54. board diversity: succession planning: and board evaluation.
UK Corporate Governance Code The issues of diversity and the related topic of succession planning The Financial Reporting Council FRC recently issued a revised UK are high on our agenda and are covered in more detail in the Corporate Governance Code the 2012 Code and revised Guidance nomination committee report on page 49. to Audit Committees.
The audit committee has scheduled time in 2013 to discuss how the Company can best comply with these.
This With regard to board evaluation, we undertook an extensive years audit committee report can be found on pages 47 to 48. external process in 2011 which provoked a good deal of debate and ushered in significant change.
In 2012, I personally led a formal Safety committee internal evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board.
The general The new safety committee met for the first time in 2012. consensus from the confidential survey was that the Board The committee has made a good start in gaining an understanding continued to work well together and that Board interaction was of the Groups safety governance and disciplines and in developing effective.
Further details of the process used and the outcome can a suitable reporting regime to enable the committee to provide be found on page 44. the Board with an appropriate level of assurance.
We hope this additional Board level scrutiny will tighten further the already Business ethics stringent controls in place in this most critical area.
The report The ethics committee spent a good deal of its time in 2012 dealing of the safety committee is on page 53. with concerns about bribery and corruption involving intermediaries in overseas markets which resulted in the Group This is my final governance report as Chairman of Rolls-Royce.
handing over information to the Serious Fraud Office SFO in I firmly believe that the Companys values, its reputation and its December 2012.
This action, together with our appointment of Lord ability to achieve its objectives depend to a large extent on the Gold to lead an independent review of our current compliance effectiveness of its approach to corporate governance.
However, procedures, should make it clear to all who do business with us, or rules alone are not enough.
The Code is based on principles and not on our behalf, that the Board is united in its resolve not to accept just rules and the actions we have taken in the past and in 2012 any behaviour that undermines this Groups future success.
More should leave no doubt that the Board of Rolls-Royce will pursue information on the work of the ethics committee can be found on those principles in the spirit in which they are intended.
Sir Simon Robertson Chairman R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012
