Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 Governance Chairmans letter Dear Shareholder Introduction At Severn Trent, we are committed to delivering value and building a sustainable business, supported by good governance.
As a board we are responsible and accountable to shareholders for ensuring effective governance processes are in place and complied with.
The boards role is to: understand and meet its obligations to the companys stakeholders: lead the group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: Andrew Duff approve the groups strategic objectives: and Chairman ensure that sufficient resources are available to enable it to meet those objectives.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Governance in Severn Trent Council FRC in 2008 has been replaced by the UK Corporate Governance Code the The way we are structured Governance Code.
There have been a number of substantive changes to both the Our organisation is structured to allow main principles and provisions designed primarily to place greater emphasis on board for effective and efficient decision behaviours.
These are all changes which your board encouraged and supported.
The following sections of this report set out how good governance underpins our The way we choose to behave activities in Severn Trent and describe how we apply the principles of the Governance Code.
Our Code of Conduct: Doing the Right Thing the Severn Trent Way which Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code was reissued during the year sets out For the whole of the financial year ended 31 March 2012, Severn Trent was fully our approach to responsible business compliant in its application of the Governance Code, which is available on the FRC behaviours.
This demonstrates our commitment to the highest standards The Code of Conduct is supported by of governance and corporate behaviour.
15 group policies and our behaviours model.
Further details of these Board membership canbefound on our website During the year under review the board has consisted of me, your non-executive www.
com Chairman, five executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
The way we assure our performance Photographs of the members of the board, together with their biographies and a description of the complementary skills and wealth of experience that they bring to Management assurance is provided bear, can be found on pages 42 and 43. by a combination of effective management processes and risk Together, as a unied board, I believe we bring an appropriate balance of innovation, andcompliance activities.
experience, independence and challenge to ensure effective decision making.
Independent assurance is provided Details of our policy on diversity in the boardroom are provided in the Nominations primarily by Internal Audit, by our Committee report on pages 50 and 51. external auditors and other Role of the Chairman externalbodies.
The role of the Chairman is to lead a unied board, facilitating the contribution of its members at its meetings, and to be responsible for ensuring that the principles and processes of the board are maintained in line with the Board Governance document.
Agendas for our meetings are agreed in consultation with the Chief Executive and The way we are The way we Company Secretary, although any director may request that an item be added to the structured choosetobehave agenda.
I have authority to act and speak for the board between its meetings, including engaging with the Chief Executive.
I report to the board and committee chairmen as The way we work appropriate on decisions and actions taken between meetings of the board.
I also meet with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present, to consider the The way we performance of the executive directors and to provide feedback.
assure our performance Senior independent  Richard Davey is the senior independent non-executive director.
He chairs the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
The board has agreed that Richard will act as Chairman ofthe boardinthe event that I am unable to do so for any reason.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 46 Governance Chairmans letter Non-executive directors Group Authorisation Arrangements Your non-executive directors are appointed to the board to contribute their individual The Group Authorisation Arrangements external expertise and experience in areas of importance to the group such as GAA are the framework through which corporate finance, general finance, corporate strategy, customer care, property, the Severn Trent Plc board authorises environmental and scientific matters, general management and supply chain the right people, at the right level, management.
They also provide independent challenge and rigour in the boards totake important decisions as we deliberations and are encouraged to make independent assessments of the groups manage legal, financial and competencies.
The non-executive directors, led by Richard as the senior independent administrative issues throughout non-executive director, meet without me at least once a year, where there is an thegroup.
The GAA are designed to opportunity for them to appraise my performance.
facilitate good control, efficient decision Your board has reviewed the status of the non-executive directors and considers them making and demonstrable compliance.
all to be independent in character and judgement as dened by the Governance Code.
The ow of authority is from the Severn Trent Plc board to the Chief Executive Chief Executive and his Executive Committee STEC.
Responsibility has been delegated to the Chief Executive, Tony Wray, to achieve the Inrespect of certain issues, the companys strategy.
He is empowered to take all decisions and actions that further the delegated authority is subject to an companys strategy and which in his judgement are reasonable, having regard to the obligation to work with specialist Chief Executive limits set out in the companys Group Authorisation Arrangements business services areas such as Tax, GAA.
The non-executive directors, led by me, appraise his performance annually.
Treasury, Group Finance and Company Secretariat that provide additional Executive directors expertise and a group wide perspective.
The executive directors support Tony in driving the implementation of strategy forward in Severn Trent.
They are committed to implementing strategy in a responsible way that takes account of our commitment to long term responsible stewardship of the Governance of subsidiaries business, the environment, our customers and the communities in which we live The board of the listed company, andwork.
Severn Trent Plc, is the same as that of its regulated subsidiary, Severn Trent Role of the Company Secretary Water Limited.
This structure was All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Bronagh implemented in 2007 when it was Kennedy, and the Company Secretariat team.
The Company Secretary is responsible decided to integrate the management for ensuring that the board operates in accordance with the governance framework it of the companies to gain greater focus, has adopted and that there are good information ows to the board and its transparency and effectiveness around committees and between senior management and the non-executive directors.
The appointment and resignation of the Company Secretary is a matter for Following his appointment as CEO of consideration by the board as a whole.
Severn Trent Services in January 2012, Martin Kane became a non-executive Induction director of Severn Trent Water Limited.
On joining the board, a directors induction needs are evaluated and then they are The two companies operate as distinct provided with a comprehensive and individualised induction pack which includes legal entities.
The boards have regard to information on the group structure, the regulatory framework of the operating the Severn Trent Plc Board Governance businesses within the group, strategic plans, financial reports and business plans and document and the Severn Trent Water information on our governance framework.
Limited Matters Reserved to the Board.
Meetings are arranged with members of the executive management team and with They are assisted through the external advisers who provide support to the relevant board committees the directors management of separate agendas, may serve on.
Visits to operational and ofce sites across the group are also arranged meetings and minutes by Company for directors joining the board and subsequently throughout the year.
Secretariat and advised in their meetings by the Company Secretary Continuing professional development where appropriate.
The directors received updates throughout the year on matters such as the impacts of the proposals on private drains and sewers, the UK Governments Water White Paper, Subsidiary company boards are Water for Life, PR14 and changes in Listing Rules requirements.
required to be managed scrupulously with respect to legal, scal and The directors also have access to professional development provided by external administrative matters.
In particular, bodies and our advisers.
the relationships between Severn Trent Water Limited and our other businesses such as Severn Trent Services are monitored and controlled to ensure that we comply with our Ofwat obligations on arms length transactions.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47 Governance Chairmans letter Performance and effectivenessreviews Reporting obligations In November 2011 I commissioned an independent external review of the As a public listed company, the effectiveness of the board, which was conducted between December and March.
company has a range of reporting Thereview was carried out by Boardroom Review and was designed to encourage obligations to meet that are set out by thedirectors to step back from the normal business of the board, and provide law and regulation.
The company is themwith an opportunity to question the boards approach, assess its impact committed to the promotion of investor andcontribution and prepare for the challenges ahead.
confidence by taking steps within its The reviewer conducted condential interviews with all 11 directors and the Company power to ensure that trade in its Secretary and reviewed a selection of board papers.
This enabled the reviewer to securities takes place in an efficient consider the boards effectiveness and identify any key themes arising from the review, andinformed market.
which were then presented to and discussed by the board at its meeting in March.
The company recognises the The strengths of the board identied included a good understanding of stakeholder importance of effective communication views including the companys regulators and shareholders: good market information as a key part of building shareholder to the non-executive directors: strong Audit, Corporate Responsibility and value and that, to prosper and achieve Remuneration Committees: and open access to executives below board level.
growth, it must among other things Areas for further development which were discussed included prioritisation of strategic earn the trust of security holders, matters on board agendas and improving focus on leadership development and employees, customers, suppliers and succession planning.
In fact, during and after the review, progress has already been communities, by being open in its made in these areas.
communications and consistently delivering on its commitments.
Board processes The company announces its results on We have processes in place regarding: a half yearly basis and complies with our tasks and activities board membership and administration : the requirement to make interim management statements.
the matters specically reserved for our decision making, the authority delegated to the Chief Executive, the accountability of the Chief Executive for that authority, and guidance on managing the relationship between us and the Chief Executive: and The Chief Executive has established a the boundaries on Chief Executive action Chief Executive limits.
Disclosure Committee, chaired by the An approved Board Governance document outlines those processes andis available Finance Director, with specic on our website www.
responsibilities for the delivery of The board has reserved the following for its own consideration: theinterim and year end reporting the appointment of the Chief Executive, directors, the Company Secretary and the processes.
The Committee oversees Director of Internal Audit: thedelivery of an integrated plan incorporating all elements of the year the strategy and budgets of the company: end reporting process, namely the the GAA which set out the groups delegated approval limits: groups final results announcement and decisions regarding the company and its subsidiaries required to be made by the report and accounts, the companys companys GAA, constitutional documents, statute or external regulation: and Annual General Meeting, the statutory the approval or adoption of documents including the publication of reports and and regulatory accounts of Severn statements to shareholders, required to be made by the board by the companys TrentWater Limited and the Ofwat GAA, constitutional documents, statute or external regulation.
Board meetings We have regular scheduled meetings throughout the year and committee meetings are convened when required.
Papers, including minutes of board committees held since the previous board meeting and performance reports, are circulated in advance of eachmeeting.
There is an agreed procedure in place which allows directors to take independent professional advice in the course of their duties and all directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Where a director has a concern over any unresolved matter he she is entitled to require the Company Secretary to minute that concern.
Should the director later resign over the issue, I, as Chairman, will bring it to the attention of the board.
In addition to formal board meetings, your board attended a full day strategy session this year, where the board and executive management team together considered the strategic change agenda and the strategic context for and overall approach to PR14.
During the financial year, six ad hoc meetings of the board were convened to consider such matters as Severn Trent Plcs preliminary and interim results and interim management statements.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 48 Governance Chairmans letter Board attendance in 2011 12 Institutional shareholders andanalysts Andrew Duff 7 7 Martin Lamb 7 7 The board recognises the importance Tony Ballance 7 7 Michael McKeon 7 7 ofrepresenting and promoting the Dr Bernard Bulkin 7 7 Baroness Noakes 7 7 interests of its shareholders and that Richard Davey 6 7 Andy Smith 7 7 itis accountable to shareholders for theperformance and activities of Gordon Fryett 6 7 Tony Wray 7 7 thecompany.
Martin Kane 7 7 Presentations are made to shareholders and analysts following the release of Board committees the interim and year end results.
The We have established committees of the board to deal with specic issues or approvals, Chief Executive and Finance Director as and when necessary.
regularly meet shareholders during the The four permanent committees of the board assist in the execution of its year.
The Chairman and, ifappropriate, responsibilities and the board delegated some of its responsibilities to those board the senior independent non-executive committees.
The committees assist the board by fullling their roles and director are available to meet responsibilities, focusing on their specic activities, reporting back to the board on shareholders if required.
The board decisions and actions taken, and making any necessary recommendations.
receives written feedback following The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees meetings with institutional comply with the provisions of the Governance Code and are available for inspection, shareholders and monitors shareholder together with the terms of reference of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, on the activity on aquarterly basis at companys website www.
com or may be obtained on written request itsmeetings.
from the Company Secretary at the address given on the back cover.
The effectiveness of each of the committees has been reviewed during the year as part of the wider externally facilitated board review and the committees have also considered their terms of reference during the year.
Reports from the Chairmen of these committees are set out on pages 50 to 68 of thisreport.
Terms and conditions of appointment We have made the terms and conditions of appointment of the directors available for inspection by any person at the companys registered ofce during normal business hours.
They will also be available at the AGM.
The letters of appointment of the directors can also be seen on our website www.
Remuneration The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 55 to 68.
Interests No director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract of signicance with the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Conicts of interests The board has a full process in place to authorise situational conicts in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
For any actual or potential conicts, the following procedure has been adopted by the board to consider and, if it sees t, to authorise situations where a director has an interest that conicts, or may possibly conict, with the interests of thecompany: the director will notify the Chairman and Company Secretary of the actual orpotential conict: the Nominations Committee will consider the notication and determine whether it needs to be proposed to a board meeting for authorisation: and the conict will be considered by the board at a scheduled board meeting.
Full details of the conict will be sent to directors in advance of the meeting.
If there isa major conict or it is decided that authorisation should not wait until the next scheduled meeting, the board would be asked to authorise the conict by way of written resolution.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Governance Chairmans letter In addition to reviewing any conicts notied and proposing them for authorisation Retail shareholder bythe board, the Nominations Committee monitors changes to previously notied engagementstrategy conicts and any conditions imposed.
Half yearly reports are made to the board of all The board has an active shareholder directors conicts and directors are reminded from time to time of their obligations.
engagement strategy, the main An annual review of conicts is carried out and this is incorporated into the year end elements of which are set out below: process of verifying directors interests.
This review has confirmed that there were no The annual report and accounts is the conicts of interest requiring authorisation by the board.
principal means of communicating with In addition, at every board meeting there is a standing agenda item at the beginning shareholders.
The group adopted of the meeting to consider and discuss whether any potential conicts exist.
e-communications after they were approved by shareholders as an Annual general meeting alternative means of receiving company The AGM of the company will be held at the International Convention Centre, information at the 2007 Annual General BroadStreet, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11am on Wednesday 18 July 2012.
As at 3 May 2012, 34,629 Presentations are made on the groups activities, performance during the year and shareholders receive company anoperationally focused presentation prior to the formal business of the meeting.
communications via electronic method TheChairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Remuneration and Nominations whilst 26,015 shareholders continue Committees, together with all other directors, will attend the AGM.
The AGM gives shareholders an opportunity to feedback to the company on The companys website performance, management and the way we work in a very direct fashion through www.
com contains an the way they vote either in favour of the resolution, against the resolution or by archive ofannual reports together with withholding their vote so that it does not count either for or against.
Shareholders may other information relevant to investors.
also meet informally with directors and senior management before and after This includes comprehensive share price themeeting and ask formal questions duringthe meeting.
information, financial results, company The board encourages shareholders to attend the companys AGM and to exercise news and financial calendars.
The notice of meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders The company offers a Dividend at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed on Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Details of the each substantially separate issue.
DRIP are available on our website and The company uses electronic voting at the AGM, allowing shareholders present at the the website of Equiniti, our registrar.
meeting to register one vote per share held.
Results of the poll on each resolution, including details of the votes for and against registered prior to and at the meeting, Shareholder networking day proxy votes and the number of abstentions will be displayed at the meeting.
As part of our Shareholder Networking The poll results from the AGM will be made available on our website after themeeting.
Programme, participants in October 2011 At the 2011 AGM, 54 shareholders registered to participate in the Severn Trent had a choice to visit either a waste water Shareholder Networking Programme which took place on Tuesday 11 October 2011. or clean water site.
These were hosted by The aim of the programme is to offer retail shareholders the opportunity to learn more Simon Cocks, Waste Water Services about the company, through a combination of site visits and talking to staff.
Further Director and Martin Kane, who was details of the event are set out in the box on this page.
Your board encourages those Director of Customer Relations at the shareholders attending the 2012 AGM to register for this years event.
Twenty participants were taken toour Minworth Sewage Treatment Reappointment Works Birmingham for a tour and In accordance with the Governance Code, and as was the case at the AGM last year, presentation on renewable energy.
allthe directors will retire at this years AGM and submit themselves for reappointment Twenty participants were taken to by the shareholders.
Campion Hills Water Treatment Works Royal Leamington Spa for a tour then Conclusions ontoSevern Trent Water Finham for a Good governance is not simply an exercise in compliance.
For Severn Trent it is a vital demonstration of making a connection aspect of the foundation for the sustainable growth of the business.
I rmly believe toa live water main and a display of that we will continue to deliver value and achieve profitable and sustainable growth materials used in the distribution network.
for our company through the successful mix of good governance, aclear strategy This was followed by both groups visiting witha supporting business plan andastrong management team.
our operating centre in Coventry.
Positive feedback was given on the organisation and content with strong support for the company continuing the Andrew Duff programme, both from shareholders Chairman and employees who enjoyed the positiveinterest shown in their work.
