Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 RYHUQDQFH The Chairmans introduction Financial savings and improved risk management consistent with the principles of good corporate governance.
$GULDQ $XHU Group Chairman On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present ofa Risk Committee together with a new Health the Corporate Governance Report for 2012.
& Safety Committee further strengthened our TheBoard fully supports the principles of good governance framework and reporting structure.
corporate governance and is committed tothe A clear priority for the Board during the year was improvement and development of appropriate the recruitment of a new Group Chief Executive structures, processes and procedures charged with bringing the energy and leadership throughout the Group in support ofthese to maintain the momentum of the Groups principles.
progress and manage the next phase of growth.
Following on from a comprehensive search Underpinning our entrepreneurial culture is andrecruitment process led by the Nomination acentral framework which enhances Committee and external recruitment consultants, co-ordination throughout the Group and which I was therefore delighted to announce the willcontinue to deliver financial savings and appointment of Peter Dilnot who was appointed improved risk management consistent with to the Board in February 2012 and whom theprinciples of good corporate governance.
shareholders now have an opportunity to elect This framework is in turn built around our for the first time at the forthcoming AGM.
corevalues of responsibility, innovation, straightforwardness and openness.
The aim This year we report against the new UK ofthe central framework is to improve our Corporate Governance Code which has abilityto execute right first time and to ensure superseded the Combined Code.
Having fully experience and good ideas are shared across considered the new code the Board are pleased the Group.
to confirm compliance in all material respects save for one, as identied in last years The Board also recognises its responsibility Governance Report, regarding the annual toensure its governance is relevant and focused re-election of executive directors.
A more on improving the business, strengthening detailed explanation of this together with our ourinternal controls and its management wider corporate governance arrangements processes.
The establishment during the year areset outon the following pages.
2XU &RUSRUDWH RYHUQDQFH UHSRUWLQJ PDQDJHPHQW IUDPHZRUN 6KDQNV URXS SOF %RDUG $XGLW 1RPLQDWLRQ 5HPXQHUDWLRQ Principal Board Committees URXS [HFXWLYH Executive Management &RPPLWWHH 5LVN &5 6 Specialist Committees 2SHUDWLQJ 'LYLVLRQV Divisional Management Additional reporting line to Group Board
