m mar ark ke et tp pl la ac ce e an and d s sust usta aiin na ab biil liit ty y f fiina nan nc cia ial l r re ev viie ew w c cor orp por ora at te e a acco ccou un nt ts s a an nd d o ove ver rvi vie ew w s st tr ra at te eg gy y a an nd d p pe er rf form orma an nc ce e b bu us siine fines ss s r re ev vie iew w r re ev viiew ew a and nd p pr rin inc cip ipa al l r riis sk ks s g go ove ver rn nan anc ce e o ot th he er r i in nf form orma at tiion on s se ec ct tiion on 6 6 c cor orp por ora at te e g go ov ver ern na an nc ce e 57 57 Governance introduction Dear Shareholder, Nomination & Governance Committee I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Statement for 2012.
In recognition of all the external developments in corporate governance, we Before we get into the technical detail of specific corporate goverance have expanded the remit of the Nominations Committee to cover governance requirements, I wanted to highlight the governance areas we have focused matters and to rename the committee, the Nomination & Governance on in 2012.
For some time the Committee has considered certain governance matters such as the independence of Non-Executive Directors, diversity and the Board Evaluation process.
This change of remit formalises the role of the Committee, which now includes Board succession planning, Board changes independence of Non-Executive Directors, diversity, conflicts of interest, We have continued to make changes to our Board throughout the year.
As oversight of the effective governance of the Board and its committees, the you will have read elsewhere in this Annual Report, we are delighted that Board Evaluation process, the induction of new directors and directors Julie Brown has joined us as Chief Financial Officer on 4 February 2013.
She training in general, as well as keeping abreast of external governance will continue to build on the strong foundations laid by Adrian Hennah who activities.
left the Board on 31 December 2012.
Adrian has contributed enormously to the success of the Company over the past six years and we are sorry to see him leave but wish him well in his future career.
Review of the Boards Effectiveness We have also made a number of changes to our Non-Executive team.
On Having conducted our own internal evaluation of the Boards effectiveness in 12 April 2012, Rolf Stomberg left the Board following 14years service as a 2010 and 2011, we asked Independent Audit to facilitate the review process Non-Executive Director, during which time he served periods as Senior in 2012.
This took the form of a series of interviews with each member Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
On of the Board, the Company Secretary and other members of the senior 1 November 2012, Genevive Berger left the Board owing to other time management team who interact with our Board.
During the year, we were pleased to welcome Ajay Piramal reviewed the Board and Committee papers over the past year and observed to the Board on 1 January 2012 and Baroness Bottomley on 12 April 2012. our December Board meeting.
Their comments and observations gave us a Finally, we shall be appointing Michael Friedman to the Board in April.
These useful perspective into the way we operate as a Board.
You can read more three new appointments reflect the changing focus of the Group, as we build about this review in the statement that follows.
A key takeaway for us was the a Board that will take us into the future.
Ajay brings experience of Emerging need to give even greater focus to succession at Board level.
markets and Baroness Bottomley brings her knowledge and experience of European public healthcare systems whilst Michael Friedman brings As ever, whilst we recognise the importance of sound governance, we are exceptional experience of the US Healthcare market.
These are all areas vital continually focused on the Boards responsibility to promote the long-term to our future growth and prospects.
success of the Company for the benefit of customers, employees and shareholders.
Ethics and compliance Ethics and compliance remain at the very heart of our business and everything that we do.
The independent monitor appointed to review our efforts recognised and supported the enhancements we have made over the past five years to our ethics and compliance programme, whilst making some very valuable suggestions about further improvements in what is a constantly evolving aspect of our business.
We continue to remain vigilant in Sir John Buchanan these areas and the Ethics & Compliance Committee of the Board sets the tone at the top in overseeing our ethics and compliance programme, which Chairman pervades the entire organisation.
20 February 2013 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p56-p73 Working Copy.
