t e k r a y t M e i c o S S u p p o r t E n r v e i e r n o Sustainability review With operations and of ces in over 100 countries, and reaching customers in many more through our supply chain, the world is not just where we do business it is where we live, play and raise our families.
We are committed to increasing the The Group comprises exceptional people of our long-term strategy, which creates sustainability of our business and that who share our core values of respect, competitive advantage and helps to achieve of our customers, and recognise our accountability, passion, integrity and delivery.
responsibilities towards the environment, These values give us a strong foundation on Accountability is essential.
While the Group the communities in which we operate which we base our decisions, drive innovation is accountable to its shareholders, it also and the people in our workplaces.
and actively manage our operations across recognises that it has responsibilities to the globe.
Our sustainability objectives include: other stakeholders, including employees, We aim to do what is right, what is best and customers, suppliers and the local what is fair, while delivering value to our Our business: Using our expertise to communities in which it operates.
The Board customers and maintaining a strong and provide innovative solutions to meet accepts its responsibility to be accountable viable business.
our customers needs and to ensure to all stakeholders and is committed to increasing shareholder value.
sustainable and ethical business practices.
We recognise the importance of sustainability Our environment: Leading as an in our business operations and believe that Economic, social and environmental accountable corporation working with our a sustainable business is one that provides sustainability are at the heart of our customers and suppliers to minimise our long-term shareholder value, while reducing business model: impact on the environment.
environmental impact and improving the societies and communities in which it Our communities: Being a positive operates.
Sustainability is an intrinsic part in uence in the communities in which we work and live.
Our workplaces: Maintaining a professionally challenging, respectful and safe workplace for all Spirax-Sarco Engineering associates and business partners.
Increasing Working pro tability within our through communities consistent and workplaces annual organic to create a better sales growth.
Responsible product design and action to minimise our, and our customers, impact on the environment.
Creating sustainable, pro table growth 32 Spirax Sarco Engineering PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 i n g m n e E n t S u p p y l m y d o n n a o t c s r E e d n U Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability 33 UK Supply factory reduces carbon emissions Within Spirax Sarcos UK factory, insulating ancillary steam equipment has saved 376 tonnes of CO e emissions and reduced 2 running costs by as much as 100,000 per annum.
In addition, work recently completed to proactively manage the compressed air system is expected to achieve targeted savings in excess of 50 tonnes of CO e 2 emissions per year, compared to 2011.
The depth of information given on the issues Our environment Total Group CO e emissions 2 climate change presents to the business scope 1 and 2 tonnes Greenhouse gas emissions Whether a company uses a third party for 2009 32,150 Spirax Sarco is determined to be a leader external veri cation of its data.
in addressing the threat of climate change.
2010 29,579 Energy ef ciency Improved carbon management is, and 2011 29,392 Increased energy ef ciency is essential to will continue to be, a priority across our reducing our carbon footprint and is central 2012 26,233 businesses.
In accordance with national and to the Groups sustainability agenda.
international commitments on climate change, we endeavour to continuously reduce the CO e intensity tonnes per m of inflation Much has been done to reduce energy 2 carbon intensity of our business, implement adjusted sales, at constant currency consumption, with several notable success initiatives to cut our carbon emissions and stories.
Throughout the Group, staff 2009 56.4 improve the sustainability of our operations, awareness campaigns have been used 2010 48.0 and help our customers to do the same.
effectively to encourage individuals to switch 2011 45.2 We are committed to reducing our carbon off non-essential equipment when not in use.
2012 39.6 For example, in Spirax Sarco Korea, adjusting indoor room temperatures, setting We have reduced our total CO e emissions 2 screen savers on all computers and laptops, Greenhouse gas GHG scope 1 and 2 from 32,150 tonnes in 2009 and switching off lights at lunchtime has emissions inventory to 26,233 tonnes in 2012: a reduction of over made signi cant base load savings.
As our business has grown, we have Electricity 45% signi cantly reduced our CO e intensity Business travel 34% Although not directly reporting on scope 3 2 against in ation adjusted sales at constant Natural gas 20% emissions, we recognise that we have a currency, from 56.4 tonnes per m of sales in responsibility to improve energy ef ciency Other 1% 2009 to 39.6 tonnes per m of sales in 2012: and reduce emissions in all aspects of a reduction of nearly 30%.
Between 2011 our business operations, including the and 2012 our CO e intensity fell 12% from transportation of our manufactured products.
2 45.2 tonnes to 39.6 tonnes per m of in ation We have made signi cant progress towards adjusted sales, at constant currency.
increased energy ef ciency in the intra-Group transportation of goods.
Shorter internal Using externally veri ed methodology we supply chains have been created through calculate that the energy saving products the uni cation of manufacturing into one purchased from Spirax Sarco in 2012 could Cheltenham site.
In addition, contracts have reduce our customers CO e emissions by as 2 been negotiated to streamline transportation much as 4.9 million tonnes annually.
With our across Europe through the use of a single scope 1 and 2 emissions amounting to just freight forwarder we previously used 28 26,233 tonnes across the Group in 2012, our and two carriers within the UK previously 18. business has a signi cant net gain in reducing carbon emissions.
Expressing this from a shareholder perspective, we calculate a net carbon bene t of approximately 62.5kg per Ordinary share in issue in 2012.
Net carbon savings per share are based on the average number of shares in circulation divided by the net savings Since 2008, the Group has reported its in carbon emissions between our operations and the carbon footprint to the Carbon Disclosure estimated savings made by our customers.
Net savings Project in the UK.
In 2012 we were awarded in carbon emissions are based on scope 1 and scope a carbon disclosure index of 69 2011 : 65, 2 emissions only and do not include scope 3 emissions from a maximum possible score of 100, such as deliveries made by third party freight forwarders re ecting a year-on-year improvement.
and emissions associated with our supply chain.
Carbon savings are based on the sale of selected product lines The carbon disclosure index re ects: and the emissions those products avoid through their use The extent to which a company measures in a typical year.
its carbon emissions The comprehensiveness of the information that it provides on climate-related actions Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33
