Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 55 Chairmans introduction to SSE corporate governance Richard Gillingwater will take over as Chairman Corporate governance is key to running SSE as a successful, responsible and sustainable of the Audit Committee.
He will also become business capable of delivering increases in the Senior Independent Director on 24 July 2012 dividend payable to shareholders in the short, in place of Lady Rice, who will continue as an independent non-Executive Director and medium and long term.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Our corporate governance report for 2011 12 sets out our approach by describing Following the Davies Review of Women on the SSE team, how the Board works and risk Boards we have confirmed our commitment management and includes separate reports to diversity generally throughout SSE, and Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman on each of the Board Committees.
I would in particular diversity at Board and senior like to highlight some specic points: management level.
UK Corporate Governance Code Commitment The principal governance rules applying The non-Executive Directors devote significant to UK companies listed on the London Stock time to SSE over and above attendance at Exchange are contained in The UK Corporate Board and Committee meetings.
During Governance Code adopted in June 2010.
The the year the non-Executive Directors had Board has been fully briefed on the recent individual visits to key business locations and changes to the Code, in particular the annual received briengs from members of the SSE re-appointment of Directors, Board diversity, management team on a range of matters.
the requirement for regular external Board The visits included: onshore and offshore evaluation, a greater emphasis on risk, and wind farms, coal-red power stations, the gas storage facility, customer service facilities the need for a clear explanation of business model and strategy.
We welcome these and joint venture offices, including SGN.
changes and are committed to complying with them.
The full Board remains totally committed to the continued success of SSE, and to ensure Changes to the Board that it is run to the highest standards of As part of our planned and continuing corporate governance.
refreshment of the Board, we welcomed two Lord Smith of Kelvin new non-Executive Directors to the Board Chairman during the year Jeremy Beeton and Katie 15 May 2012 Bickerstaffe.
They bring specic experience which will be invaluable as SSE undertakes major capital projects and faces the challenges of changes in the domestic customer market.
Jeremy has joined the Audit and Nomination Committees as well as the Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee.
Katie has joined the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Colin Hood, SSEs Chief Operating Officer retired from the Board on 31 October 2011.
His Board level responsibilities were reallocated among existing Executive Directors and his operational responsibilities were divided between members of the Management Board.
I would like to thank Colin for his many years of leadership and service to the Company.
Thomas Andersen, non-Executive Director, has taken over from Colin the Chairmanship of the Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee.
Ren Mdori, non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, will step down from the Board on 25 June 2012.
I would like to thank Ren for his nine years service as a non-Executive Director and his Chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
