Governance: Corporate Governance Statement from the Chairman Board composition and diversity Board effectiveness review Following the untimely death of Dr Barry The 2011 review was conducted by an Zoumas in August 2011, Dr Ajai Puri was external facilitator and the Board agreed appointed to the Board as an additional that I would lead the 2012 review.
This non-executive director and Chairman of year, we also sought input from senior the Research Advisory Group with effect executives who are regular attendees at from 1 April 2012.
We also undertook a Board and or Committee meetings and review of the needs of the Board in light details of recommendations and actions of the Groups agreed strategy and length are on page 41. of tenure of our current directors.
The findings of that review are helping inform Developments in corporate future changes in the Board.
governance We continued to monitor the changes to Following on from the recommendations the corporate governance landscape and of the 2011 Board effectiveness review, have responded to a number of the UK we developed a strategy for Board diversity governments consultations during the and carefully considered the proposals year.
We also held a dedicated training contained within Lord Daviess report on session on UK and European governance Women on Boards.
We believe that each and I expect that this will be an area for member of our Board must be able to continued focus in 2012 13. demonstrate the skills, experience and knowledge required to contribute to the effectiveness of the Board.
Subject to that Chairmanship overriding principle, we believe that the On 1 January 2012 I took on the Boards perspective and approach can chairmanship of National Grid plc after be greatly enhanced through gender, age joining its board as Deputy Chairman and cultural diversity and it is our policy to in August 2011.
As agreed with the Dear Shareholder consider overall Board balance and diversity Tate & Lyle Board when I obtained its when appointing new directors.
consent to take up that chairmanship, As a Board, we are always mindful I stepped down from my other company of the duties we owe to the Companys directorships at that time because I was Areas of focus shareholders and key stakeholders cognisant that the time commitments A summary of the key areas addressed by to ensure the Company has the right of the new role were similar to those the Board during the year is on pages 39 to people, systems and processes in place at Tate & Lyle.
During the year ending 31 March 2013, to manage risk and deliver the Groups this is on page 40. the Board expects to place particular focus agreed strategy.
As Tate & Lyles business on the following: transformation programme continues to Sir Peter Gershon progress, this is even more important.
As Chairman safety: Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring the performance of the Speciality Food 30 May 2012 that the Board operates effectively with Ingredients business unit, including its well-informed directors asking the right business and market opportunities: questions and setting the right tone from the Innovation and Commercial the top.
Development group: other strategic initiatives, including merger This Corporate Governance Statement and acquisition opportunities: describes our approach to governance the performance of the Commercial and and highlights a number of the actions Food Innovation Centre and single global we have taken during the year including IS IT platform once implemented : and the following: the transition of the Research Advisory Group to the chairmanship of Dr Ajai Puri.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 38
