CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION ACHIEVING HIGH STANDARDS OF GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT Your Board remains focused on effective risk management in order to create long-term sustainable value for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Maintaining high standards of corporate governance without compromising Tullows unique culture is central to this task.
Remuneration Committee, in response to shareholder feedback, W e are fortunate to to ensure that our executive pay is fit for purpose and aligned have many outstanding with our exploration-led growth strategy.
people at Tullow who The Board received presentations from a number of external are determined to speakers drawn from politics, NGOs, academia and the City to help inform our debates on the future shape of the business.
Each Director also has a personal development plan to acquire or refresh skills and knowledge relevant to our plans for the coming year.
The time spent by the Board, set out in page 92, reflects these activities.
2012 Board evaluation Immediately prior to his retirement as Senior Independent Dear Shareholder Director SID, I asked Steve McTiernan to undertake the annual As we continue to build organisational capacity and improve review of board effectiveness to ensure that I got honest our management processes and procedures, we seek to strike feedback on my own performance at the end of my first year as a balance between entrepreneurial risk-taking and prudent Chairman.
The process consisted of a questionnaire, one-to-one risk management.
While the Board can, and does, provide structured interviews with each Director and a Board discussion leadership, the good reputation of the Company depends upon of the conclusions and recommendations.
I am pleased to report the behaviour of every single employee and contractor, which that as a Board we continue to make good progress in improving is why we seek to maintain an environment where everybody the effectiveness of our discussions, the atmosphere remains feels responsible for the future success of the business.
collegiate but appropriately challenging, and we are achieving a better balance between monitoring past performance and In this introduction to the corporate governance report I will debating the future direction of the business.
briefly cover the Boards activities during 2012 before focusing on three issues: diversity, remuneration and stakeholder 2013 Board objectives relations.
In the accompanying table on page 88 and 89 there The Board objectives for 2013 on page 89, and the rolling is a detailed update on the Boards performance against our 12 month Board agenda, reflect the priorities agreed following 2012 objectives and an outline of our 2013 plans.
I will undertake a mid-year review of progress in each area with Graham Martin, General Counsel Board performance in 2012 and Company Secretary and the nominated Executive Director The Board set objectives in six key areas in 2012.
In summary, for Board matters, to ensure that we are on track to achieve we increased the Board time allocated to the discussion of these objectives.
strategy as we took a number of important resource allocation and portfolio management decisions in relation to new ventures All the Directors are agreed that the major opportunities and and acquisitions and the sale of our operations in Bangladesh, challenges facing the Company are to maintain our success in Pakistan and the Southern North Sea.
Risk management exploration: to optimise our portfolio of exploration, appraisal remains a key focus for the Group and we have decided to form and development assets: to further develop trusting and a new EHS Committee in 2013 to ensure that adequate time is mutually beneficial relationships with our key stakeholders: devoted to managing personal and process safety, occupational and to continue to build organisational capacity without and community health and the environment, all of which are compromising Tullows entrepreneurial culture.
critical issues for Tullow and our stakeholders.
Board membership Succession planning has been further enhanced with personal During 2012, David Williams, chair of the Audit Committee, development plans for potential successors to key positions and Steve McTiernan, SID, retired from the Board after six within the Group.
The Board Committees continue to function and 10 years respectively.
I would like to thank both for their well.
Two new non-executive Directors were appointed during outstanding contribution during a period of remarkable the year and a huge amount of work was undertaken by the growth and success for Tullow.
86 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE More information 12 Chairmans statement 98 Directors' remuneration report 4 88 Board performance evaluation Steve Lucas, who joined the Board in March 2012, has taken over Board diversity as chair of the Audit Committee.
He brings a wealth of financial Male 82% and treasury experience, as Finance Director of National Grid and non-executive chair of two Audit Committees, as well as Female 18% considerable knowledge of the oil and gas industry gained at Shell and BG.
Anne Drinkwater joined the Board in July 2012 after a successful career at BP.
She brings recent and directly relevant operating experience and has already made a significant contribution to our discussions on EHS and community relations.
Anne will chair the new EHS Committee.
David Bamford has taken on the role of SID, in addition to chairing the Remuneration Committee.
Diversity strongly linked to strategy and performance, which will attract At Tullow we fully recognise and embrace the benefits of diversity and retain the best talent, provide an effective incentive to and regard the discussion of a broad range of views at Board level achieve the strategic objectives agreed by the Board, and as an essential element in maintaining our competitive advantage.
better align the interests of management and investors.
A truly diverse Board consists of people with different personal attributes, skills, experience and backgrounds, as well as The new remuneration policy is set out in detail in the differences in nationality, race and gender.
One of the main advantages of the new scheme is that it consists of just two elements fixed In the UK, the main focus has been on gender diversity and at pay including base salary, pension and benefits and performance Tullow the proportion of female non-executive Directors once related pay in the form of the Tullow Incentive Plan TIP again exceeds 25% and in total 18% of the Board are female.
and can therefore be summarised in just three bullet points: We will continue to consider candidates for future Board Base Salary increases for Executive Directors will, in appointments from the widest possible pool and will only engage general, not exceed the average increase awarded to executive search firms that have signed up to the Voluntary Code other UK-based employees: of Conduct on Diversity in the Boardroom published in July 2012.
We have also ensured that the composition of the Nominations The TIP will be paid up to a maximum of 600% of Base Salary Committee reflects the level of diversity that we are seeking to versus approximately 700% under the existing annual bonus, achieve on the Board as a whole.
deferred bonus and Performance Share Plans combined subject to the achievement of a balanced score card of We regard the development of a diverse, high-calibre pipeline of stretching financial, operational and shareholder returnsenior executives, with Board potential, as our highest human related objectives, explicitly linked to the achievement of resource priority.
However, the challenge of dealing with a long Tullows long-term strategy: and legacy of under-representation of females in senior executive roles in the oil industry remains.
Women currently represent The TIP will be paid in cash up to a maximum of 100% 19.3% of management, and we will continue to focus on of Base Salary and shares, deferred for five years versus increasing this proportion in the coming years.
three under the current plans, subject to claw-back.
Remuneration After consulting a number of major shareholders and In response to shareholder feedback and in light of political shareholder organisations, we believe that the new plan is and public concern about senior executive pay, we are appropriate for our business and fairly reflects evolving views recommending a radical overhaul of pay for our Executive on best practice in executive pay.
Directors and senior management from 2013 onwards.
Our objective is to provide a simple and competitive package, www.
