08 Chairmans Statement continued Our significant capital investment programme, which has largely been invested, will deliver near-term production growth across our portfolio, in turn driving strong cash ow growth.
The simplication of the Group Contribute further and in a more Looking Forward structure is expected to yield targeted way to local communities We start the new financial year with significant benets through a We are passionately committed to a world-class asset portfolio, a low more efficient capital structure, making a difference to our local cost structure and a strong nearincreased exibility to allocate communities, contributing US$38 term growth prole.
The outlook for capital, broader access to capital million this year to community natural resources remains robust: markets and enhanced visibility development projects, benefiting industrialisation and urbanisation in of earnings and cash ow.
China and India and other emerging merger will also generate significant Continue to manage and minimise economies continues to drive demand synergies for the shareholders of our impact on air, water and land and Vedanta is well-positioned to Sesa Goa, Sterlite and Vedanta.
Our environmental focus on serve these markets.
Our significant reducing specic consumption capital investment programme, Sustainability of energy and water is making which has largely been invested, We have continued to focus on sound progress with most will deliver near-term production aligning our policies and management of our operations yielding growth across our portfolio, in turn systems to the sustainability standards significant positive results.
driving strong cash ow growth.
recognised internationally by the Maintain a dialogue with Looking further forward, Cairn IFC, ICMM and UNGC.
This year we Stakeholders to help us understand India, Liberia and Gamsberg offer have completed the development and respond to their material issues outstanding opportunities to grow of a comprehensive Sustainability So far over 1,000 people have our production well into the future.
Framework that is now being rolled received training in the new out across our operations and I am Sustainability Framework and pleased to say that we have signed implementation is continuing.
Anil Agarwal the UN Global Compact.
Chairman Achieving our goals will take a 16 May 2012 We want to go even further and great deal of hard work, but we embed sustainable development are committed to our journey into every aspect of what we do of continuous improvement.
which is one of the five priorities that I have set.
The others are to: Dividends Improve our health and safety In line with our policy to progressively performance for a safer, more increase our dividend payments secure and healthier environment to shareholders, the Board has for every employee and contractor recommended a final dividend of 35 We work in an inherently risky US cents per share, an increase of industry and it is with great regret 8% that will be paid on 5 September that I have to report 22 fatalities 2012 to shareholders on the register this year.
Our efforts to eliminate on 17 August 2012.
This takes the unsafe conditions and unsafe total dividend for the year to 55 US behaviour are starting to yield cents per share, 5% above last year.
Our quarterly gures show good progress and our lost time injury rate continues to fall, reducing by 10% year on year.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 09 Our Year in Review New Silver Renery Commissioned In Q3 FY 2012 our new silver renery came on stream, taking our capacity to 16moz of silver.
The ramp up of the Sindesar Khurd mine combined with the contribution from the silver renery delivered an impressive 35% increase in silver production, with production reaching a record 7.8moz.
Acquired Iron Ore Assets inLiberia In August 2011, we acquired iron ore deposits in Liberia, West Africa, with Reserves and Resources estimated at over 1 billion tonnes.
Currently, an Aeromagnetic study has been completed, and the Feasibility study is under way.
Initial drilling indicates potential upside.
Acquired and Integrated CairnIndia During the year we completed the integration of Cairn India, following the acquisition of a majority stake in December 2011.
Cairn India is the largest private crude oil producer in India and this acquisition extended our portfolio into oil & gas.
Group Consolidation and Simplication Announced In February 2012, we announced the consolidation and simplication of Group structure in line with our stated strategy.
This includes a merger of Sesa Goa Ltd and Sterlite Industries India Ltd to create Sesa Sterlite Ltd. Main image: Ravva onshore terminal, Andhra Pradesh.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
