Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance overview Compliance with the Code Leadership We confirm that throughout the financial year, the Even closer focus on strategy and its execution.
Company applied all of the principles set out in sections Read more Ato E of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the See page 68 period under review and has complied with the detailed provisions set out therein.
The Companys auditors, Accountability  LLP, are required to review whether the above statement reects the Companys Close scrutiny of risks and controls.
compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Read more Governance Code specified for their review by the Listing See page 70 and Risk management and internal control report on page 42 Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
Effectiveness A strong, open and effective Board.
Read more Committees of the Board See page 71 Details of the Wolseley plc Board and Committee governance structure are set out below.
Theformal terms Relations with shareholders of reference for each of the Committees of the Board, Open engagement with shareholders.
which have been approved by the Board and comply Read more withthe Code, are available from the Group Company See page 73 Secretary and General Counsel and can also be found onthe Wolseley plc website at www.
Remuneration Membership and activities of the various committees are Prudent oversight of executive remuneration.
summarised on the following pages.
Read more See page 84 Wolseleys governance structure Board and Committees of the Board Meetings held in Switzerland or outside the UK.
Board These take decisions of a strategic or substantive nature.
Major Audit Remuneration Nominations Announcements Committee Committee Committee Committee Other committees Meetings may be held in the UK.
Executive Treasury Disclosure These implement strategic decisions Committee Committee Committee and executive or administrative matters.
Geographic regions Group functions USA and Canada France Nordics and Central Europe UK IT Legal HR Finance
