Wolseley plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Through my leadership, I support the work which the Dear Shareholder Nominations Committee, the Board and the Company At Wolseley we are always committed to high standards asawhole are currently undertaking in relation to diversity ofcorporate governance.
Your Board provides strong and succession planning.
The Report has given us an leadership to the Company and has effective and opportunity to consider a drive for change.
The terms constructive relationships with the management team ofreference for the Nominations Committee have been andshareholders.
amended ahead of the proposed changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code to include specic reference Your Board forthe Board to consider diversity when selecting candidates for Board and senior management positions.
The relationships within the Board have developed well during this financial year and the culture in the Wolseley Refreshment of the Board and succession boardroom is one where all Directors are invited to speak freely and raise difficult questions.
I believe that this results planning in the Company ina collaborative and conscientious Board.
I encourage I have worked with the Nominations Committee to consider contribution from all Directors and we conduct our meetings our aspirations in relation to diversity and review the evolution in an environment where ideas can be both questioned of the composition of the Board and its Committees.
This results in better quality decisions, Wehave also anticipated that the tenure of Andrew Duff madethe right way.
ourSenior Independent Director and Remuneration Your Non Executive Directors all continue to be independent Committee Chairman will come to an end in 2013.
We have and objective and play an essential role in the composition identied the balance of skills, experience, capabilities, ofour Board due to the skills and expertise they bring.
independence, diversity and knowledge of the Company required on the Board and its Committees against which An  Board evaluation was conducted future appointments will be made.
thisyear in line with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The evaluation indicated that the Board As noted by Ian in his Chief Executives review, there are and its Committees are operating effectively and to high areas where we know we can improve, including diversity standards of governance, and that the skills of the Board and workforce planning.
The Board and senior management arebalanced.
The evaluation process, together with the place great importance on the way we develop the talent conclusions and the recommendations for improvement, ofour employees and we recognise this as an area that we arediscussed further on page 72. can continue to improve.
We already have high quality development plans which provide solid career path Remuneration opportunities that can ultimately lead toprogression to senior management and Board positions.
We recognise that there Remuneration has been a significant issue for shareholders is an opportunity for more women tohold senior roles both of many UK companies during the last year.
Although operational and functional in Wolseley.
We are conscious Wolseley is a Jersey incorporated company, we continue that for the Company as a whole, much more needs to be toconsider it appropriate to provide you with the safeguards done to improve the diversity of our workforce.
The benets you would expect to apply to a UK registered company.
that diversity brings are well recognised and our recruitment Wehave monitored and contributed to consultations during and development policies take into account the need to the year and we will adapt our remuneration policy and consider a variety of factors, not only the gender of the practices to meet the standards of any new legislation candidate or employee.
Diversity of background, outlook thatisintroduced.
andexperience are all important to us, and at any level The Remuneration Committee and Board are fully aware of theBoard included the principal criterion has to be the current climate and commend the Board both Executive andremains that of excellence.
and Non Executive Directors and the Executive Committee During the next financial year, we will prioritise workforce who will all take a salary pay freeze in the next financial year.
diversity at all levels of the organisation.
In addition, we will We are also fully informed of our shareholders views on all assess our senior leadership development programmes and aspects of remuneration and all correspondence is given redesign them as appropriate to ensure that they align with proper consideration.
I believe that the work of the our business strategy and leadership prole.
Your Board will Remuneration Committee and the Board shows us to have continue to monitor this across the Group on a regular basis been responsive and responsible in our approach.
and it is part of our ongoing HR strategy.
I look forward to leading the Board through this period of Further response to the Davies Report development and overseeing the changes ahead to further As mentioned last year, we welcomed the findings and strengthen your Board.
recommendations of Lord Davies report, Women on Boards the Report.
Asatthe date of this annual report, we have one woman onthe Board, Tessa Bamford, due to the departure of Karen Witts during the year.
Karen stepped downfrom the Board in light of her appointment as Finance Director of Kingsher plc, in order to avoid any risk of a conict of interest.
In her short tenure at Wolseley, Karen made a valuable contribution to the Board and its Committees.
Nevertheless, we still expect the diversity of the Board to Gareth Davis Chairman meetthe recommendations set out in the Report by 2015.
