CHAIRMANS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LETTER Dick Olver Chairman Dear Shareholders, Chairmen are encouraged to report Those of you that have read this section of our report and accounts personally in their annual in past years will know that I like to reflect on certain corporate governance matters that are topical or of particular interest to you statements how the principles as BAE Systems shareholders.
This year, I want to highlight how we use board visits to develop directors understanding of the relating to the role and business and provide an update on board diversity.
However, I will effectiveness of the board have start with a matter that generated much interest during 2012, the Boards decision that the Company should hold discussions with been applied....
Above all, the EADS to look at a possible combination of the two businesses.
These discussions, and the subsequent decision to terminate personal reporting on governance them, were the subject of much interest last year and I think it is worthwhile looking at this matter from a governance perspective.
by chairmen as the leaders of Strategy and decision making boards might be a turning point in The UK Corporate Governance Code states that a boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership for a company in setting its attacking the fungus of boilerstrategic aims.
BAE Systems has a well-developed strategy and plate which is so often the planning process that involves the Board throughout the year.
Consequently, the Companys strategy is the subject of a good deal preferred and easy option in of review that involves both the senior executive management team and Board members in analysis and discussion.
As a result of this, sensitive areas but which is dead prior to the discussions with EADS last year, we knew we had a robust standalone strategy and business plan but if a board is to communication.
provide strategic leadership it also needs to look at wider Preface to The UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012 opportunities to deliver shareholder value.
The UKs Corporate Governance Code also aims to promote effective board decision-making.
The essential elements of good governance in this area being a well-constituted board with a clear division of responsibilities between chairman and chief executive, that is able to make well-informed decisions on the basis of collective debate and deliberation, and, once a decision has been made, ongoing board oversight and supervision.
On the basis of the work that had been undertaken prior to 2012, the Board was well informed on strategic matters and, therefore, well placed to decide whether or not the Chief Executive should be given authority to engage with EADS to explore that strategic opportunity.
The Board discussed this matter at length.
The discussions were well informed with effective engagement between executive and non-executive members of the Board, following which there was clear agreement on how to take this forward.
Thereafter, we took steps to ensure that directors were kept up-to-date with developments and given the opportunity to raise any matters or concerns they had.
Regular conference calls and Board meetings provided this engagement, and in the period from the initial Board 80 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Governance In addition to the visit to Saudi Arabia, the Board also undertook discussions to the termination of the talks, a total of six Board similar visits to the US during the year, visiting the Companys meetings and five informal telephone conference calls were held.
In operations at Greenlawn, New York, and holding meetings in addition, as Chairman, I remained in close contact with all Board Washington, DC, with management and members of our US board.
members both executive and non-executive to ensure that The Boards committees are also encouraged to engage with the everyone remained close to developments and all had the business at first-hand, and last year the Corporate Responsibility opportunity to provide guidance or raise concerns.
Committee visited part of our UK ammunitions business at Engagement with shareholders is a fundamental part of the UKs Glascoed and the Audit Committee held one of its meetings at our corporate governance model and BAE Systems has a wellNaval Ships business in Glasgow.
developed investor relations programme that has helped us to develop important relationships with major shareholders.
Once the Diversity discussions with EADS became public, we recognised the need to Last year, the Board agreed a policy statement on board diversity.
engage with various stakeholders, such as shareholders and As part of that statement, we undertook to report in future annual employees, without delay.
This was a key priority for the Board and reports on progress against actions taken.
In respect of the last 12 had been the subject of much debate and planning.
However, it months I can report the following: should be recognised that, as for all transactions governed by the There are currently three women on the BAESystems Board UKs code on takeovers and mergers, the strict requirement to treat 2012 three, 27% of the total membership 2012 25%.
Below all shareholders equally in terms of access to information and not the Board, there are three women on the Executive Committee selectively disclose information meant that we were inevitably 2012 two, 25% of its total membership 2012 17%, and 20% of restricted as to what we could disclose to shareholders and other the Groups global workforce are women 2012 19%.
Accepting the limitations, many stakeholder meetings were held and all directors received regular Four of the 11 members of the Board are non-UK citizens.
The Board and the Nominations Committee reviewed the Groups Major strategic actions test the true effectiveness of boards.
As a management resources during 2012 and noted the actions being starting point, a good board needs to stay on top of market taken to grow the female talent pipeline at senior executive conditions and understand a companys strengths and the levels.
These actions included the following: challenges it faces so that it is able to make important strategic Initiating work aimed at developing a flexible work culture.
In decisions when opportunities present themselves.
Decisions particular, establishing the principles, behaviours and should be made collectively and on a well-informed basis where education requirements to underpin this.
necessary, with assistance from subject experts and professional advisers.
Prior to making major decisions, all directors should have Planning the roll-out of unconscious bias training in 2013. the time and the opportunity, both formally and informally, to Establishing a senior executive mentoring programme discuss matters and raise any concerns they may have.
The managed by the Executive Committee.
chairman, chief executive and senior independent director have important roles to play in this process.
Having made a decision, a Using executive search firms with a track record of open and board needs to maintain oversight of matters as they develop and inclusive recruitment processes.
be given every opportunity to get involved if there are issues that Certain of the Companys directors are involved in providing need to be addressed.
mentoring services to potential, and recently appointed, listed When putting a board and an executive team together you look for company directors.
The Company is a founder member of the people with the knowledge, experience and basic sound judgement FTSE 100 Cross-Company Mentoring programme and I am a that will enable them to guide a company through all eventualities member of the 30% Club, a group committed to greater board knowing that there will be times when the quality of your diversity.
Also, we provide mentoring services through the governance arrangements and people will be tested.
As part of our Chartered Management Institute.
annual performance evaluation process, we have reviewed our Further details of our diversity and inclusion activities can be found performance in 2012 and how we stood up to that test, and whilst on page 42. as a Board and as a Company we will always look at ways to improve our performance, we believe our board governance was, and Board evaluation remains, robust and effective.
In the following Corporate governance report, you will find details of how the Board evaluates its own performance.
We have undertaken Understanding the business such evaluations every year since my appointment as Chairman, To be effective, directors need to develop an understanding of a and they have all been facilitated externally.
You will also see over companys business.
For me, that means getting out of the the page details of achievement against the Board evaluation boardroom and meeting employees and experiencing business objectives we set last year and the ones we have agreed for this operations at first-hand.
Therefore, one of the highlights of 2012 year.
Every year since 2006, we have provided a similar summary of from a board perspective was the visit we made to the Kingdom of the objectives agreed by the Board following its performance Saudi Arabia.
Over the course of the three-day visit, directors met evaluation.
We introduced this innovation in governance reporting with the customer, received direct feedback on the Companys to provide the readers of these reports with greater insight into the performance and gained a valuable insight into our long-standing working of the Board, and I believe it also shows our commitment to relationship with the Kingdom.
We also spent time with the local transparency and the development of best practice in board management team reviewing the strategic and operational governance.
Visiting different locations in Saudi Arabia, Board members met with our employees and learnt how they work within the performance framework and values agreed by the Board.
Our Chief Executive, IanKing, has consistently said that it is not just about what we do, but how we do it, building a culture that delivers shareholder value by meeting the needs of our customers and acting responsibly at all Dick Olver times.
Whilst in Saudi Arabia, we were encouraged by the progress Chairman being made to build a sustainable long-term business shaped by our values and performance expectations.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 81 CHAIRMANS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LETTER CONTINUED Board performance 2012 objectives and achievements Strategy Continue to keep strategy under review and As detailed on page 80, the Company held discussions with EADS looking at a support moves to adjust the portfolio of possible combination of the two businesses.
Minor adjustments to the portfolio of businesses where it is in the interests of businesses have been made, with three business disposals completed in 2012. shareholders to do so.
Succession planning Increase focus on matching succession and The Board and the Nominations Committee reviewed management resources during development to the strategic challenges of the year, and noted the work being undertaken to understand the key attributes and internationalisation, and the next decade of behaviours required for present and future senior management roles in the Company, change in the business environment.
and the application of focused development work aimed at achieving this.
Performance monitoring Extract insight from the new segmentation of The revised reporting segments have improved visibility of the business, in particular, business results.
in Cyber & Intelligence, and have enabled management to bring additional strategic insight to the business and include this as part of the Boards review of strategy.
Culture and behaviour Implement improvements and observations The Board and the Corporate Responsibility Committee have maintained oversight of identified in the Ethical Leadership Group ELG the implementation of the actions in the ELG report and the reports produced by the report and the US monitors reports, and US monitors.
The monitor appointed by the Department of Justice attended Audit oversee progress against these at Board and Corporate Responsibility committee meetings during the year.
Risk and risk management Continue to review the corporate risk register, During the year, the Board reviewed the different elements of risk management and including major programme risks and crisis how it discharged its responsibility using the Financial Reporting Councils Boards management plans.
and Risks report to inform and structure the discussion.
Board development Use deep dives to improve understanding of As reported above, the Board visited the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the US during principal markets and other major business the year, and used these visits to develop directors understanding of these issues.
businesses and the particular markets they serve.
Board performance 2013 objectives Strategy Continue the strategic review of the business portfolio, with focus this year on the services businesses.
Work with the executive team in the development of a comprehensive narrative of the Companys strategy.
Succession planning The Nominations Committee to complete the recruitment of two additional non-executive directors and identify a world-class candidate to succeed Dick Olver as Chairman.
Culture and behaviour Ensure that the Company remains at the forefront of developing and embedding best practice in responsible business behaviour.
Risk and risk management The Board to continue to review cybersecurity protection, the management of risk in major programmes and crisis management.
Board development Enhance the Boards strategic understanding of geo-political and economic risks in international markets.
Use Board visits to promote understanding of markets and the business development opportunities they offer.
