Our Governance | Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement Balfour Beatty is committed to applying the very highest standards of corporate governance wherever it operates.
Areas of focus in 2012 ourdirection and growth and I thank him Dear Shareholder t Succession planning for his significant contribution.
anddiversity The Board welcomed the UK Corporate t Strategy implementation Governance Code when it was published Robert retired after 11 years on the Board, t Operational delivery three years ago and we implemented latterly as Senior Independent Director.
We particularly He also chaired our Remuneration welcomed the Codes change of tone, Committee for several years, during signalling the importance of general whichhe displayed independent Areas of focus in 2013 principles in guiding boardroom leadership in the development of t Transition to new behaviours and its continuing validation executive remuneration policy and its ChiefExecutive ofthe comply or explain principle.
I thank him t Implementation of evolved for his wise counsel and the contribution business strategy The new edition of the Code was he has made to Board discussions.
t Remuneration policy review published in September 2012 and applies Through his tenure as a non-executive t Implementing diversity and to reporting periods beginning on or after Director he brought robust challenge and inclusion programme 1 October 2012.
Despite this, we have critique to the Boards deliberations and incorporated some of the new provisions provided aneffective sounding board into this governance report.
I would like to highlight how each of the In January 2013 we announced that Codes main principles is being applied IanTyler would hand over to Andrew inpractice.
On Leader Leaders ship hip and and e ef ff fe ec ct tiiv ven ene ess ss be behalf of the Board and our shareholders, O Ou ur ar r are ea as of B s of Boa oard f rd foc ocu us s in 2 in 20 012 12 ar are e I I w want to say a huge thank you to Ian for hi hig gh hli lig ght hte ed a d ab bove.
In n the the f fol olllo ow wiin ng g p page ages s hi his outstanding contribution during his we e we ex xpl pla ain h in ho ow we w we h have ave b been een a add ddre res ss sin ing g 16 16-year career with Balfour Beatty, them and the pr them and the pro og gr re ess w ss we e ha have m five ma ad fide e.. iin ncluding eight years as Chief Executive.
It Itis testament to his leadership that S Sinc ince e my l my last ast r re ep por ort t t to o yo you u we h we ha av five e Ba Balfour Beatty has the depth of announc announced ed the r the re et tir iremen ement ts s fr from the om the m management talent to ensure a B Bo oa ard of A rd of An nth tho on ny R y Ra ab biin an n and R d Ro ob be er rt t sm smoothsuccession.
Walv Walvis and is and, m most r ost re ec ce en nt tlly y, the imp, the impe en nding ding r re et tir ire emen ment of I t of Ia an T n Ty yler ler.. To To build on the strong platform that has be been created and to lead the business A An nt th ho on ny r y re etir tire ed af d aft te er 1 r 17 7 y ye ea ar rs w s wiith th t thr h ough the next stage of its strategic theG theGro rou up p, 1, 10 0 as a D as a Diir re ec ct to or r. H. He e w wa as s fide development, the Board has made instr instrumen ument ta al in est l in estab ablishin lishing B g Ba allf fo ourBe urBea at tt ty y t tw woappointments.
C Ca apit pital, no al, now the In w the Infrastruc frastructur ture e In Inv vestmen estment ts s div diviision and one sion and one of the G of the Gr rou oup p s s k ke ey y I In n July 2012 we named Maureen value g value generat enerators.
Ov ver the y er the ye ears he ars he Ke Kempston Darkes as a non-executive b br ro ough ught t tr tremendous emendous kno know wlledge edge D Director.
With our increasing focus on and e and ex xp pe erienc rience e t to o the G the Gr roup and oup and m market sectors and growth geographies, pl play aye ed d a p a piivot vota all ro rolle e in sh in sha api pin ng g t the c h onsiderable experience Maureen has a allready brought to Board discussions in t these ar h eas has added strength and depth as as we enter our next phase of growth.
Fi Finally, the Board is delighted that a leader of of Andrew McNaughtons calibre has fide developed from within the business and is n no ow ready to take over as Chief Executive.
A A Andrew has a deep understanding of o ou ourcustomers and operations, and the r re elentless drive necessary to deliver th thestrat h egy that he has been intimately iin nvolved in developing.
D Diversity In In 2011 the Board approved the fide development of a Group approach to di di diversity and inclusion.
Our aim is to build 62 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Governance Our Governance | Chairmans Statement on the wide range of good practice in the Remuneration In 2012 we appointed organisation to stimulate further progress Over the coming few months the and recognition by sharing best practice Remuneration Committee will be making our first female Board and coordinating activity across the Group.
its own assessment of whether the member and our first current remuneration policy and incentive Recognising the compelling business case female managing arrangements remain appropriate as the for promoting diversity in the Group, not Group evolves its business strategy and director.
We also only to help us reach into new markets but organisational structure.
If the Committee launched a new UK also to retain and attract talent, we have believes changes are needed, we will focused initially on gender diversity.
womens afnity begin formal consultation with major network and received To move this forward in 2012, we shareholders towards the end of 2013 in appointed Andrew McNaughton as order to put proposals to all shareholders Bronze Awards from executive sponsor of activities to raise at the May 2014 AGM.
We will report on Opportunity Now and awareness of diversity, agreed a series of the Committees review findings in our Race for Opportunity.
targets and reviewed our key policies and next annual report, whether or not procedures.
This review generated an changes are thought necessary.
integrated Group and divisional action plan Relations with shareholders and established a Group baseline analysis Among other stakeholders, engagement of diversity in the workforce and leadership.
with our investors remains critically A three-year diversity programme of important.
In 2012 it again received a considerable amount of attention.
Further action steps and publicly reported targets is included in our 20132015 sustainability information on our investor relations roadmap.
We have also reported the programme is given on pages 79 and 80. percentage of senior leadership posts held In last years governance report, I said by women, the percentage of women in wewere looking to increase the levels of the workforce, the divisional diversity shareholding among US investors, since targets and actions achieved in 2012. asignicant proportion of our overall The Bengalla In the past year we have appointed our business is conducted in the US or first female Board member and our first drivenfrom the US headquarters of our Expansion Project female managing director in Balfour Professional Services business.
We also inAustralia Beatty Living Places.
We have launched a employ over 10,000 people in the US.
The AUS$190 million 122 UK womens afnity network, Connecting Iam very pleased to report that, as million project which was Women, and received Bronze Awards aconsequence of our increased delivered on time and under from Opportunity Now and Race for commitment of resources and time to the approved budget involved Opportunity.
We hope to build on these investor communication in the US and three main contracts: civil aswe progress with the implementation through our ADR programme launched in works, coal handling and of our action plan.
July 2012, the percentage of our issued preparation plant CHPP share capital held by US investors has Accountability upgrade, and the mining grown from 15% to just over 18%.
We believe that the Companys policies infrastructure area upgrade.
and procedures enable the Board to The scope of work included: present a balanced and understandable two additional heavy vehicle assessment of the Groups trading workshop bays: expansion of position and its prospects.
the bathhouse: extension of existing ofces: increased car Through 2012 the Board continued to parking capacity: improved develop its thinking on the business outdoor stores facilities: strategy and model, and how the Steve Marshall upgraded heavy vehicle organisation can best be structured to Chairman washstation: and oil water achieve its growth ambitions in a trading separation plant.
Thiswork has crystallised into a clearly dened business strategy, explained indetail on pages 12 and 13 and pages 16to23, focused on growth markets andthe creation of a robust organisational structure which will be fully implemented during 2013.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63
