Berendsen plc Report and 50 Accounts 2012 Chairmans overview Delivering sustainable value.
Corporate governance is about running the business in the right way in order to create long-term sustainable value for the benefit of all ofour stakeholders.
Iain Ferguson Chairman This is my first year as Chairman and I am pleased to welcome Lucy Dimes An effective and diverse board Iwould like to assure shareholders tothe Berendsen board and Iam sure As Chairman, my primary responsibility thatIwill continue the strong focus she will make a significant contribution to is to ensure that the board has the right ongovernance for which Berendsen the business.
Lucy is currently managing mix of skills, knowledge and experience hasbecome recognised in the past.
alargemultinational business and will so that it works effectively as a team, also provide the board with additional supporting management to formulate experience in both sales and operations.
What good governance and execute the corporate strategy, I would also like to thank Per Utnegaard meansto Berendsen whilst encouraging the non-executive for his eight years service as he steps directors to bring fresh perspectives down from the board of Berendsen Our view of what constitutes good tothe table and, where appropriate, to on30 April 2013. governance remains the same.
In this Wedonot view corporate governance way the Berendsen board comprises as an isolated exercise in compliance Board achievements ateam of experienced individuals with butas a core and vital discipline that the complementary skills and talents to during2012 complements our desire continually carry out their duties to the best of their toimprove upon the long-term growth 2012 has been a very busy and exciting abilities, which we believe engenders and success of the group on behalf year for the group.
Following the 2011 thetrust and respect of all stakeholders.
Good governance external board evaluation, the board isanevolving process and our aim For a board to be effective there must meteach of the core growth istoconsistently be at the forefront be an open, honest and transparent management teams in order to ofcorporate governance best practice working relationship between ascertainhow they were implementing inorder to deliver effectively on non-executive directors, executive the recommendations from the 2010 thecompanys strategic objectives.
directors and senior management, strategy review.
Meetings were held AtBerendsen, we believe that whichallows an appropriate level of withthe management teams of effectivegovernance is realised interaction and challenge.
I have been UKFlatLinen, Workwear, Cleanroom throughleadership and collaboration adirector of Berendsen for over three resulting in consistently focused years and can confirm that our culture andsensible business decisions.
and transparency is one of the How the board spent companys key strengths.
Hopefully its time in 2012 byreading our governance reports you will gain a better understanding of the 1 Strategy formulation, 1 6 implementation Berendsen culture and why our board 5 and monitoring 20% iseffective.
2 2 Performance monitoring 20% 3 Governance and risk 20% 4 3 4 Meeting country management site visits 25% 5 Shareholder engagement 10% 6 Other 5% Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 51 Priorities for 2012 Progress in 2012 k Review findings and agree actions arising from the 2011 k The majority of the board evaluation recommendations external board evaluation have now been implemented and regularly monitored bytheboard during 2012 k Continued focus on management development and k Improved received regular updates from the Group succession planning Director, Human Resources k To meet each of the business line management teams and k Completed in May, June and September 2012.
The board review their strategy met over 30 senior managers during 2012 k Recruitment of a new non-executive director k Completed Lucy Dimes joined the board in June 2012 k Ensure a smooth transition and handover of responsibilities k Completed the transition was well organised with from Christopher Kemball to Iain Ferguson no issues arising Priorities for 2013 k Support the Chief Executive Officer and executive board on the delivery of the groups strategic objectives k Support the executive board in the groups talent management programmes and succession planning k Continues dialogue with major shareholders k Review the findings and actions arising from the independent review of the groups risk management in Q1 2013 k Review strategy with the executive board in Q3 2013 and Mats & Washroom.
This involved the Shareholder engagement External recognition board meeting over 30 senior managers As Chairman, I am also responsible During 2012 we were pleased that and travelling to our facilities in West forensuring that there is ongoing and onceagain our focus on good Bromwich UK and Bad Windsheim effective communication between the governance was recognised, with Germany.
This also provided the board and its shareholders.
During 2012 Berendsen being short-listed for boardwith an excellent insight into the Iformally introduced myself as Chairman twoICSA Hermes Transparency in challenges and opportunities facing to our major shareholders and in Governance Awards and for the Building these businesses.
November arranged a dinner where Public Trust Award excellence in In September, I organised a strategy ourmajor shareholders, representing reporting for a FTSE 250 company, meeting to give the board the approximately 50% of our shares in issue, organised by .
opportunity to challenge the executive had the opportunity to meet the If you would like to discuss any on the implementation of the groups non-executive directors.
Thisis the third aspectofour groups governance strategy and to identify how the group time that Berendsen has held this type withme please feel free to email me can develop further.
Both the board ofevent and once again the feedback atChairman@berendsen.
eu andexecutive found this to be a very received from shareholders was positive.
productive session which provided the We plan to arrange a similar dinner Iain Ferguson board with assurance on the groups during the last quarter of 2013.
Chairman strategic direction and has given the executive clear areas on which to focus during 2013.
Shaped for driving integration In April 2012, we acquired Decontam GmbH, a cleanroom operation in southern Germany.
Due to the strategic importance of this acquisition our board travelled to Bad Windsheim in Germany on 20 September to meet the management team, understand the opportunities and issues facing the business, and to visit the newly acquired facility.
