Corporate governance Chairman's introduction Corporate governance is very important to us at Aberdeen.
It is The following were some of the key features of corporate one of the qualities that we look for in the companies in which governance oversight in 2012. we invest and we believe that it is important that we achieve the same high standards.
We have a conviction that companies Overseas visits adopting leading corporate governance practice will be more The visits to our overseas offices are an important part successful and deliver enhanced shareholder returns.
This gives the Board members an opportunity to meet the local teams through both The Board is accountable to shareholders for the Groups formal presentations, and at desk demonstrations of the activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate investment process.
governance practices within the Group.
The responsibilities of the Board include setting the Group's strategic aims, providing Risk management the leadership to put them into effect, supervising management The Board believes that it is critical that the culture of risk of the business and reporting to shareholders.
management is set from the top.
The Board has identified its five core values of integrity, quality, The Board and its committees will actively engage with teamwork, ambition and challenge, providing a framework for the executive in what it sees as emerging risks.
The Board communications of what matters to the Group for the benefit believes that a mindset that questions low likelihood, high of all our stakeholders.
Full details are available on our website.
The corporate governance section outlines our approach to Training governance, including: Board members receive regular training and updates from The composition of the Board, its committees and the the business and all are obliged to carry out continuing executive Group management board GMB professional development on their own in accordance with the Group's internal guidelines.
All directors have, in the year Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code under review, met the internally set requirements.
the Code The activities of the Board and its committees Corporate responsibility We have included an update on corporate responsibility and The Boards oversight of risk management our annual corporate responsibility report is available on our Our relationships with shareholders.
We have continued to refresh the membership of the Board.
We launched Aberdeens corporate governance principles Richard Mully joined as an Independent Non-Executive Director during the year and these can be found on our website and Rod MacRae, our Head of Risk, joined the Board from the www.
nsf aboutus beginning of October as an Executive Director.
These principles provide a Weaver retires from the Board in January, we will have six Nonframework for investment analysis, shareholder engagement Executive Directors.
and proxy voting for companies worldwide.
Roger Cornick Chairman 34 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Board governance structure Group management board The operational management of the Group is delegated by The Board has set up four committees, which are populated by the Board to the GMB which comprises the executive directors non-executive directors.
The responsibilities of the committees and other heads of department.
The GMB meets three times continue to grow in scope and complexity in response to each month, has specific terms of reference which have been increasing regulatory requirements.
A full description of their approved by the Board, and has responsibility for implementing responsibilities is provided on the Groups website at http: the Boards strategy.
nsf InvestorRelations termsofreference Corporate governance framework and responsibilities Board of directors Group management board Approval of the Group's strategy, goals, objectives, Review Group and divisional strategy plans and budgets and other plans budgets Agree, in discussion with the risk committee, the Review and consider risks within the Group Group's risk appetite, taking into consideration the Take decisions on the day to day management of the Group's strategy Group except where matters are reserved for decision To act in accordance with the matters reserved for by the Board the Board Biographies on pages 36 to 39 Biographies on page 40 Risk committee Remuneration committee Nominations committee Audit committee Support the Board in its Determine the Regularly review the Monitor the integrity of consideration of the remuneration packages structure, size and annual, interim and business activities that for the Chairman, all composition required of preliminary financial expose the business to executive directors and the Board compared to statements of the Group.
current and future the senior employees.
Review and assess the material risks.
Review any performanceConsider appropriate annual internal audit Advise the Board on the related pay schemes succession planning for plan and internal audit considerations and operated by the Group.
directors and other function, and monitor process for setting the senior executives.
managements Review all share incentive risk appetite.
responsiveness to the plans for approval by the Keep under review the findings and Ensure that senior Board and shareholders.
executive and nonrecommendations of the management has in place executive leadership Determine the internal auditor.
procedures and needs of the remuneration strategy mechanisms to identify organisation.
for the Group to ensure and control all staff retention and See page 46 for the Assess annually the fundamental operational, incentivisation, to meet nominations committee independence and financial, reputational, with current best practice report objectivity of the and regulatory risks and to align the interests external auditor.
of all stakeholders, in See pages 44 and 45 for the See page 47 for the risk particular shareholders audit committee report committee report and employees.
See page 46 for the remuneration committee report.
