Performance Strategic overview Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Chairmans introduction Good governance is about the Board driving the executive to obtain the highest standards of behaviour throughout the organisation.
The UK Corporate Governance Code Dear Shareholder The Board is committed to the highest On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the corporate governance report for the year ended standards of good corporate governance.
In this, and the Committee reports, your Board endeavours to demonstrate It follows an approach that complies with how we approach governance within Amlin.
Governance should not just be a set of rules that are principles of the UK Corporate Governance disconnected from operations and blindly followed.
Good governance is about the Board driving the Code the Code.
The required regulatory executive to obtain the highest standards of behaviour throughout the organisation, via its executive and governance assurances are provided and senior management.
That behaviour manifests in the attitude of our staff towards our clients, throughout this report.
Amlin has complied colleagues and other stakeholders and consequently drives our business.
Good governance takes with all provisions of the Code with the different forms from the delivery of a strong controls framework that works within the business exception of matters highlighted below.
A full enhancing financial, regulatory and risk controls, to delivering diversity of talent and experience account of how Amlin has complied can be viewed at www.
com in the Corporate amongst our people and assisting in effective succession planning.
New to this report are the letters from each Committee Chairmen which explain how good Code provision B.
1.2 governance operates within each of their Committees and ultimately the Group.
As part of Amlin's For a short period of eight weeks the Board drive for good governance the Board participated in an external evaluation exercise for the first time.
was not compliant with section B.
1.2 of the Amlin's aim was to capture open and constructive feedback from Board members that would help Code regarding the number of independent provide insight into the Board effectiveness and point to actions for improving the operations of the Non-Executive Directors.
During this period the Board and its Committees, establishing a framework for measuring future progress.
Board did not have a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors due to a timing You will find the way in which Amlin has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code both difference between the resignation of Mrs Bosse within these reports and in the Code compliance statement on our website.
Where it has not been on 6 July 2012 and Mrs Jemmett-Page joining possible to comply fully with the Code, we have set out the reasons for our non-compliance and the Board on 1 September 2012.
The Board these matters have now been addressed.
agreed that finding a candidate of the right calibre was sufficiently important that the Yours sincerely recruitment process should not be rushed.
This delay also meant that the Company was not compliant with Amlins policy on Board diversity with regard to gender.
Code provision D. 2.1 For a period of time the Remuneration Committee was not compliant with section Richard Davey D. 2.1 regarding the number of independent 1 March 2013 Non-Executive Directors serving on the Committee.
The Committee did not have three independent Non-Executive Directors due to a timing difference between the resignation of Mrs Bosse on 6 July 2012 and the appointment of Ms Chakraverty to the Committee on 1 January 2013.
During that period the Committee remained quorate and in compliance with its Terms of Reference.
The Board agreed that finding a candidate of the right calibre was sufficiently important that the recruitment process should not be rushed, nor should an individual be appointed just to satisfy compliance with the Code on a short-term basis.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 55 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 55
