78 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Chairmans governance letter Role of the Board I have taken corporate governance incredibly seriously throughout my career as a leader of The Board is responsible to shareholders for promoting the long term success of the major financial services organisations around the world, and will continue to do so at Aviva.
This Company, and in particular, for setting the Groups strategic aims, monitoring is also firmly the position of our Board.
A system of good governance keeps shareholder interests managements performance against these strategic aims, setting the Groups risk appetite front of mind, and ensures a balanced outcome John McFarlane for stakeholders in general.
Tone is always set and ensuring the Group is adequately resourced Chairman and that effective controls are in place in the from the top, and we have therefore made a number of changes in 2012 to enhance but also business.
The Board sets the values, tone and culture of the Group.
As a regulated Group, the simplify the Groups governance arrangements.
As a cornerstone of this, the way authority is Board also has a duty to protect the interests of Strong corporate policyholders.
delegated throughout the Group was revised to governance is the give greater empowerment to businesses whilst Effectiveness of the Board cornerstone of strengthening central controls over the major The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the a successful risks in the Company, and these are subject to success of the Group and we undertake a regular scrutiny by the Board Committees.
rigorous evaluation each year in order to assess UK Corporate Governance Code how well the Board, its Committees, the directors and myself are performing and how The UK Corporate Governance Code Code sets out the standards of corporate governance that our effectiveness could be improved.
Given the significant changes to the Board during the year UK premium listed companies must meet.
The Company aims to meet all the Code I felt that an internal effectiveness review led by myself would be appropriate for 2012.
The requirements and I am pleased to confirm that the Company has complied with most of the review was carried out using questionnaires followed by discussion at Board and Committee principles and provisions of the Code throughout the year.
However, there is one area meetings and through meetings between myself and each director individually.
The review of non-compliance to which I should draw your attention and which relates to my role as focused on the effectiveness of the Board and each Committee, how efficiently time at executive chairman for part of the year.
I joined the Board as chairman designate in meetings was used, and the appropriateness of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience September 2011 with the intention of learning about the Group and the business in order to represented by Board and Committee members.
Overall, the directors concluded that the Board succeed Lord Sharman as chairman on 1 July 2012.
However, as we approached the 2012 and its Committees operated effectively and agreed that the actions identified for focus and annual general meeting, the Company came under strong shareholder pressure to accelerate improvement in previous reviews had been addressed and implemented during the year.
change, and the Board asked me, as a former seasoned CEO, to take executive responsibility Areas identified for greater Board focus in 2013 included allocating a greater proportion of time for the Group, and to seek and appoint a new Group Chief Executive Officer Group CEO.
to in-depth discussion of the markets in which the Group operates and their competitive Consequently, in the period from 1 July to 31 December 2012 whilst we did not comply with position and re-focusing strategy discussions on long-term strategy, as well as continuing to the Code requirement for the separation of the roles of chief executive and chairman, this was monitor the Groups capital and liquidity position.
I also concluded that each director clearly in the interest of shareholders, and firm action was taken during this period to put the contributes effectively and demonstrates full commitment to his her duties.
Group on to a firmer footing, that may not otherwise have taken place in such a short timeframe.
This included major changes to the composition of the Board.
We appointed Mark Wilson as Group CEO from 1 January 2013 and this regularised the position, such that we are now compliant with the Code.
Further details of how the Company has applied the Code principles and complied with its provisions are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 89 to 94.
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 79 Aviva plc Chairmans governance letter continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Board changes At the same time, we are actively refreshing the There have been a number of changes to the Board with new non-executive appointments: Board during the year and in early 2013: Sir Adrian Montague joined the Board in Lord Sharman retired from the Board and January 2013 bringing strong insurance as chairman on 30 June 2012.
He chaired and plc credentials, and will become senior the Board during a period of significant independent director on 8 May 2013. economic uncertainty, bringing extensive experience in the international financial Bob Stein joined the Board in January services industry to bear during his tenure.
2013 bringing strong insurance and actuarial skills.
Andrew Moss, group chief executive, left the Group in May 2012 having led the We are actively searching for two consolidation of our international presence additional female non-executive directors.
and the integration of 40 brands into the very powerful single Aviva brand.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all the directors for their contribution to the Mark Wilson replaced Andrew Moss as Company during the year, and particularly those Group CEO with effect from 1 January who have retired, or will retire, in 2013 for their 2013. dedicated service.
Igal Mayer, chief executive of Aviva Europe, resigned in April 2012 when the Group was restructured into Developed Markets and Higher Growth Markets.
John McFarlane Chairman Leslie Van fide Walle resigned as a non- 6 March 2013 executive director in May 2012 to pursue other activities.
Mary Francis stepped down from the Board in October 2012 to pursue other interests.
Mary had previously been chairman of the Risk Committee.
Euleen Goh resigned from the Board at the end of the year to concentrate on her commitments in Asia.
Trevor Matthews, executive director and chairman, Developed Markets, will step down from the Board prior to the 2013 AGM.
Richard Goeltz, senior independent director, and Russell Walls, chairman of the Audit Committee, will both have completed nine years service in May 2013 and will retire from the Board on 8 May 2013.
Both have been senior and valuable members of the Board.
Glyn Barker joined the Board as a nonexecutive director in February 2012 and will become chairman of the Audit Committee on 8 May 2013.
