Governance: Chairmans Corporate Governance Statement A robust governance structure-underpins the delivery of our strategic objectives Neil Janin Chairman of Bank of Georgia Holdings Dear Shareholder, As a FTSE 250 company with a premium listing on the In 2012 we also focused on the policy for executive London Stock Exchange, it is our Boards responsibility remuneration in order to ensure that the compensation bothto practise high standards of corporate governance structure aligns management with shareholders, whereby and to contribute to promoting an environment where long-term shareholder value is increased.
Such processes need to Good corporate governance contributes to the long-term beunderpinned by the right culture, values and behaviours success of a company, creating trust and engagement permeating throughout the Group based on openness, between the company and its stakeholders.
The Group is transparency and accountability, as well as constructive committed to its customers and clients and works tirelessly challenge and collaboration.
Our Board and its Committees to act ethically and responsibly in each and every of its play a particularly important role by setting the tone at the business transactions.
top, and I and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible for seeing that this culture trickles down.
We also strive to create an inclusive environment for all employees which helps us attract, retain and develop the We review the Groups corporate governance policies, best talent, and creates an environment where a diverse structures and practices on an annual basis in order to range of people are motivated to be at their best every day.
ensure that they are up to date and being effectively We have a performance-based culture, which enables us implemented.
In 2012, the review focused on the matters to sustain strong business performance for the long term.
reserved for the Board, each Board Committees Terms of Reference, and ways in which we could improve the We continuously work to promote greater and more effective connections between our Board and its Committees.
On behalf of the Board, the Supervisory Board, the Chief Executive Officer and During 2012 we also focused on the future nature, shape Chief Financial Officer, supported by the Investor Relations and composition of the Board.
We adopted term limits for department, regularly meet with institutional investors and our Board members and developed a multi-year Board analysts throughout the year.
The Board receives regular succession plan that we believe will maintain the Boards reports from the Investor Relations department on its activities, current high level of effectiveness.
As a result, it is likely and in particular on the feedback being received from thatthere will be Board changes within the next two years.
In 2013, we will continue We believe that there are many factors to consider when to further enhance our engagement with shareholders.
seeking to maximise a boards effectiveness through its I firmly believe our Board is committed to the highest standards composition.
It is necessary for the Board to have the of corporate governance and will continue to develop its skills expertise and knowledge that are most appropriate for and capabilities as well as promote the long-term success of the Groups current and future business activities, as well the Group over the course of 2013 andbeyond.
asindividuals with sufficient time to devote to the Board both in stable and challenging times and who are able to offer a broad range of diverse perspectives to the Board, including both by way of geographic representation and gender diversity.
Neil Janin Chairman 10 April 2013 72 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012
