Chairmans introduction Committed to high standards in governance Our pursuit of strong governance is based on the conviction that it is good for our business Dear shareholders and other stakeholders I am pleased to be writing this report at an exciting time for Direct Line Group.
We became a listed company on 16 October 2012, a point which represents a significant milestone in the development of our business.
More than 27 years after the Group was originally launched in partnership with RBS Group in 1985, subsequently becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary in 1988, we achieved substantial operational separation last summer.
Mike Biggs, Chairman A year of transformation 25 April: 500m Fixed Floating Rate Guaranteed Subordinated Notes due 2042 issued by the Company significant changes and events with the Notes being guaranteed by U K Insurance Limited.
affecting the Group during 2012 and until the date of this report.
27 April: The Company announced that Mike Biggs had been appointed as Chairman and that Bruce Van Saun, Group Finance Director of RBS Group, had been appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
27 March: The 1 July: Company declared Operationally and paid an interim separate from dividend of 300m RBS Group.
2012 14 Feb: The new Direct Line Group corporate identity was launched.
3 August: The 28 May: The Company Group announced declared an interim dividend a cost reduction in an aggregate amount plan targeting gross of 500m to be paid on annual cost savings 6 June 2012 to RBS Group.
52 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors report: Corporate governance The scale of organisational change in the business during As C hairman of Direct Line Group, 2012 was also significant.
In addition to the separation from I am responsible for the leadership RBS Group, Direct Line Group continued a process of business transformation at the same time as executing the IPO which of the Board.
has allowed us to become a listed company.
Mike Biggs, Chairman Leadership As a Board we are focused on strong governance.
This first Annual Report & Accounts as a listed company allows us to I am pleased to report that we reached compliance with set out the steps we have taken to deliver against our stated the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to key objective of achieving good practice governance.
Board structure and processes by the time of the IPO.
3 September: The Company 16 October: 1,500m shares were 2 November: The Company declared and paid a further interim admitted to trading on the London announced that operating profit from dividend of 200m to the RBS Stock Exchange under the ticker DLG.
ongoing operations of 347.9m for the Group.
The Company also nine months to 30 September 2012 had 17 October: Following the exercise announced that Clare Thompson increased by 3% over the prior period.
of an over-allotment option in respect had been appointed as a of a further 67.5m Ordinary Shares Non-Executive Director.
to be sold on the market, RBS Group 14 September: The Company sold 520.8m Ordinary Shares in the announced its intention to proceed Company.
The sale represented 35% with an IPO.
The Company of the total share capital and generated also announced that Priscilla gross proceeds of 911m received Vacassin had been appointed by RBS Group.
2013 15 January 2013: The Company 13 December: announced the award to Capgemini 24 September: The Company announced The Company won IPO UK plc of a five-year contract to that Glyn Jones had been appointed as Senior of the Year at the 2012 design, deliver and run a new IT Independent Director and Mark Catton, CEO FT and mergermarket infrastructure for the Group whereby of RBS Corporate and Institutional Banking in European M&A Awards.
our corporate and business the UK, as a Non-Executive Director.
24 December: The applications will be migrated from 28 September: The Company published Company became a RBS Group IT infrastructure to an the IPO price range.
constituent of the FTSE 250. independent platform.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 53 Chairmans introduction continued Before and after the IPO the Board was instrumental A fuller description of how the Board was set up to respond in initiating projects to assure an integrated approach to the businesss needs and the challenges it faces is provided to governance.
Further details of our approach are set on page 64. out on pages 60 to 68.
Following appointment, the Directors commenced induction Our pursuit of strong governance is based on the conviction programmes designed to familiarise them with the operation that it is good for our business.
By adopting structures of the Group and its management and to provide updates and systems designed to help us operate with maximum regarding significant developments affecting listed companies effectiveness and efficiency, we aim to optimise our and our business sector.
competitive positioning and instil trust and confidence We intend to continue to build on these inductions by arranging in our stakeholders that we intend to deliver against site visits and training during 2013.
We will review the our objectives and create long-term sustainable value.
effectiveness of the Board as a whole and of individual Effectiveness Directors by annual evaluations.
Following my appointment as Chairman in April last year, Accountability my first priority was to establish an effective Board able to An overriding focus in 2012 was to ensure our policies, guide Direct Line Group as a newly-listed company.
Unusually processes and systems are t for Direct Line Group to operate for a subsidiary group, Direct Line Group had already had as a listed company, meeting all relevant statutory, regulatory independent Non-Executive Directors on its Board for over and compliance obligations.
In the approach to the IPO, we embarked on a programme of reviewing the Board composition and produced One of the first challenges we met during 2012 was to detailed candidate proles specifying the skills and qualities revisit the existing governance infrastructure and devise a required of our Directors.
The proles included requirements framework appropriate for a stand-alone listed insurance for a diversity of experience to match the range of the Groups group.
It was particularly important, during a time of significant businesses, as well as deep experience of the financial organisational change, to ensure that the outputs of various services sector and significant Board experience in major work streams were subjected to robust systems of challenge listed businesses.
By September 2012, we had appointed and independent oversight, with material decisions being five independent Non-Executive Directors, in addition to two escalated to the Board.
What has the Board achieved?
Highlights of 2012 t Substantially completed separation from RBS Group t Refreshed the membership of the Board to meet with independent corporate functions and governance the requirements of best practice relating to a from 1 July 2012. majority of Non-Executive Directors on the Board t Set financial targets for the Group, including COR excluding the Chairman.
t Provided oversight of the Fit for Listing project.
t Continued to deliver the Groups transformation plan t Considered matters relating to Solvency II.
and is making progress towards its target of a 15% RoTE.
t Launched initiatives targeting 100 million of gross t Achieved a successful IPO in October 2012. annual cost savings in 2014. t Awarded a five-year contract to Capgemini UK plc t Carried out a successful inaugural capital markets to design, deliver and run a new IT infrastructure transaction with 500 million of Tier 2 subordinated for the Group whereby our corporate and business debt issued in April 2012. applications will be migrated from RBS Group IT infrastructure to an independent platform at a cost of approximately 100 million.
54 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors report: Corporate governance In addition, the Company refreshed its committees during 2012 Relations with shareholders and other stakeholders to ensure the Board has adequate support to provide assured We value open, constructive and effective communication oversight of the business.
The composition, attendance, role with our shareholders.
We had regular dialogue with our and focus of each committee are described later in this report.
major shareholder, RBS Group, throughout the year.
In the run-up to and following listing, we held numerous meetings Remuneration with actual and potential shareholders.
I am available to meet The subject of Directors remuneration continues to receive our major shareholders to discuss Directors remuneration and attention from shareholders, regulators and the public.
It is other matters going forward.
clear to me that transparency in reporting on remuneration is key to obtaining the confidence of investors.
Although the In summary result of the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills Your Board is hardworking and committed, well placed to consultation on revisions to the remuneration reporting challenge robustly the proposals put before it and to provide regulations is not expected until later in 2013, Direct Line independent oversight.
In addition the Group has implemented Group intends to adopt the recommendations, where a governance framework which provides it with a rm foundation practicable, within the confines of current regulatory and for the future.
This is aimed at ensuring that the outputs of our legislative requirements.
various work streams are subjected to robust systems of challenge and independent oversight, with material decisions on the items We have designed our remuneration strategy to attract, retain specically reserved to the Board being promptly escalated to it.
and motivate executives of the highest quality, incentivising them to deliver exceptional performance aligned with the interests of shareholders and the delivery of our business plan.
We have determined a policy of setting pay by reference to median market pay in the context of FTSE 31 to FTSE 100 Michael N Biggs, Chairman listed companies and insurance peers.
We determined the remuneration levels and structures for Executive Directors in 27 February 2013 line with that policy.
Further information is available in the Directors remuneration report on page 78.
What will the Board focus on?
Our objectives for 2013 t Conducting a full Board evaluation, since the Board The Boards main priorities are to embed the significant will have been in place for sufficient time to make changes made to the governance of the Group, with such a review appropriate.
specic actions focused on key areas of activity: t Reviewing the Groups policy on gender diversity to consider how more women can be promoted t Supporting the vision of becoming Britains best to senior and executive management roles.
t Setting the tone and culture of the Group focusing t Overseeing the Groups progress in pursuit of its stated on behaviours to help achieve the strategic objectives targets, including those relating to COR and RoTE.
and to deliver fair outcomes to our customers.
t Reviewing the main elements of governance architecture to ensure that they are t for purpose for the newly-listed entity.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 55
