Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Risk management forms a significant part of the annual agenda Chairmans introduction of our Board, Audit Committee and CSR Committee, and our As I state in my introductory remarks to shareholders, our governance efforts across the Group as a whole.
Risk links directly corporate governance is an important element in how British to our corporate strategy.
This is why we report to you on our American Tobacco is run.
We strive to be at the forefront of key Group risk factors up front in our business review.
The Audit changing standards and procedures on corporate governance Committees report in this section gives you more detail on the as a leading UK listed plc.
systems of risk management and internal control enabling us to safeguard our shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
Overall, the Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Company and how it is directed and controlled.
As Chief Executive, We believe that our Annual Report presents a balanced assessment Nicandro Durante leads the business.
As Chairman, I lead the of the Company and its prospects, and the key performance Board.
In doing so, I must be sure of the Boards effectiveness in all indicators that measure it, in a clear and understandable way.
Each year our annual board evaluation process Good quality reporting is essential.
So is meaningful dialogue with helps me to confirm this.
We test our effectiveness as a team, shareholders.
Through our annual investor relations programme, how well our committees function and our commitment and we and I personally have discussed many aspects of corporate performance as individuals.
All Board members, including me, governance and strategy with our significant investors and receive individual feedback from this process.
You can read about analysts.
You can read more about our shareholder engagement in the results of this years evaluation in this section.
I look forward to more meetings with you in the run up to our AGM in April and at the meeting itself.
We are a diverse board, but we believe we form a strong team.
We have a broad range of professional backgrounds and nationalities, and in 2012 a quarter of the Board were women.
Richard Burrows Each year after our strategy sessions, in which we focus on our Chairman long-term vision and objectives, we review our collective skills and experience against the long-term demands of the business as we see it evolving.
The changes to the composition of the Board, set Compliance statement out in my introductory note, are a consequence of this process.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 and to the date We take a clear and transparent approach to boardroom pay, which of this document, we applied the Main Principles and complied remains a widely discussed issue.
We appointed a new Chairman of with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code our Remuneration Committee in April 2012, Dr Gerry Murphy, and adopted in June 2010 the Code.
The Board considers that found more time in our Board calendar for additional meetings of this Annual Report, and notably this section, provides the the Committee.
The Committees report in this section describes information shareholders need to evaluate how we have for you its activities during the year, forthcoming initiatives that done so.
For ease of reference, we prepare a separate annual anticipate new reporting requirements coming in 2013 and compliance report by reference to each provision of the Code.
changes that it has made to improve its effectiveness.
You can also This report is available at www.
The Code see a full breakdown of the pay and bonuses for our Executive is published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and is Directors and how they were determined.
Succession planning played a part in other committee We comply with the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules membership changes, as Sir Nicholas Scheele and Robert Lerwill requirements for corporate governance statements by virtue will both be standing down as Non-Executive Directors of the of the information included in this section, together with the Company at our AGM in 2013, each having served eight years on information contained in the other statutory and regulatory the Board.
Sir Nicholas resigned from the Audit Committee after information section of this report.
our last AGM, and both Ann Godbehere and Kieran Poynter were appointed to it.
In order to maintain balance and time commitments, Ann and Kieran stepped down from the CSR Committee, and were replaced by Sir Nicholas and Christine Morin-Postel.
Robert Lerwill continues as Chairman of the Audit Committee until the AGM this year when, with the benefit of the committee changes this year, the chair will transition smoothly to Kieran on Roberts retirement.
As a former practising accountant until 2008, Kierans wealth of financial experience is well suited to the role.
I am also confident that Christine, who has extensive experience as a director of publicly listed companies and who has been a Non-Executive Director of the Company since 2007, will make an excellent Senior Independent Director when she succeeds Sir Nicholas in the role, on his retirement this year.
46 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012
