Message from the Chairman 2012 was a good year as we transitioned successfully to a new CEO, accelerated receivables growth, demonstrated the potential for profitable growth in Mexico and won a variety of awards.
Pleasingly, this performance has been accompanied by a significant improvement in the Companys share price.
Gerard Ryan arrived as CEO designate at the During the year, the Polish business celebrated its 15th beginning of the year and took over as CEO when anniversary.
As part of our anniversary celebrations, John Harnett left the business at the end of March.
we were delighted to receive over 7,500 letters from We are very grateful to John who steered us from the customers in Poland, some past, most present, on how Companys otation in July 2007 and through the the business had helped them improve their lives.
We financial crisis of 2008-9 to become a consistently now have over 820,000 customers in this market and profitable two million plus customer business.
are committed to it becoming a million customer business before too long.
During this time we moved forward from being an overseas division of a UK-based parent company I am also delighted to report that the business has to becoming an independent, multi-country won accolades and awards across all its markets international business built around increasingly awards for customer service, our community work, strong local management teams.
as an ethical lender, as a customer friendly company committed to equality and as a great place to work.
When Gerard became CEO he set about building These awards reect the skill and commitment of our on the platform John had created.
After a rapid, but local teams and bode well for the future.
thorough, review of each of our country businesses and of the head ofce support they required for the We have sought to further improve our governance future, Gerard developed his strategy for growth with framework and controls.
Our progress is detailed in the Senior Management group.
the Governance section of this report.
We have also completed a review of best practice remuneration reporting, which is reected in the Directors I am also delighted to report that Remuneration Report that forms part of this document.
the business has won accolades During the year we said goodbye to Charles and awards across all its markets.
Gregson, who had served as a wise and thoughtful non-executive director since our otation and we welcomed Richard Moat.
Richard has extensive Although we continue to operate in an uncertain international financial and operational experience economic environment, Gerard and his senior in Telecoms, an industry which relies heavily on colleagues have set out to take advantage of the extending small sum credit to its customers.
He also growth potential identied in our existing country brings experience of the pace of mobile telephony businesses and to refocus the Leeds head ofce team development which, along with developments in the to reect the growing managerial maturity of the local digital world, are increasingly part of the ecology of management teams.
The review also committed us our business.
I am grateful to all our non-executives to delivering product innovation as a priority in our for the time and effort they put in to supporting our existing businesses and to focus our new market entry Company in the UK and overseas.
on smaller adjacent markets in the immediate future.
Finally, I want to express my gratitude to our employees We made good progress against the key priorities and agents throughout the six international markets of the new strategy and delivered a strong trading and at our head ofce in Leeds.
Ours is a business that performance.
We grew revenue by 9% and reported requires a combination of daily attention to detail and profit before tax and exceptional items of 95.1 million longer-term vision.
We are well served in both areas reecting strong underlying growth of 20.3 million and their commitment is what makes this business tick before the impact of higher Early Settlement Rebates and what has enabled us to grow and prosper despite and weaker FX rates.
We are committed to delivering the macroeconomic challenges of the world in which good returns to our shareholders and intend to pay a we live.
full year dividend of 7.7 pence per share, an increase of 9%.
I was also particularly pleased that we delivered total shareholder return for the year of 124% compared to 23% for the FTSE 250 for the same period.
Christopher Rodrigues Chairman 02 International Personal Finance plc Directors Report: Business Review There is growth potential in our existing businesses and we are committed to delivering product innovation.
Christopher Rodrigues Chairman Annual Annual Repor Repor t and t and F F inancial inancial S S tat tat emen emen ts ts 2 2 00 11 22 03 03
