Governance letteR fRom the chAIRmAn.
We believe that good corporate chAIRmAnS letteR The Board aspires to thehighest standards of corporate governance underpins the long-term governance and thisyearhas dedicated a significant success and sustainability of amount of time to considering emerging corporate thecompany creating trust governance practice inline with our belief that this is andengagement between the fundamental to sounddecision making processes and delivering the Companys strategy.
As Chairman, my companyand its shareholders.
leadership of the Board is critical to encouraging open and transparent discussion, constructive challenge and support.
John SteWARt chAIRmAn The last five years have seen unprecedented challenges for the global and UK economies and, in particular, financial services companies.
This has rightly heightened the importance and visibility of good corporate governance.
For more information visit our website: As a major investor in UK and global companies, we are investor.
com corporateaware of our responsibility both to practise high standards governance.
cfm of corporate governance and to contribute to promoting an environment where such standards inform our engagement with companies in which we invest.
We regularly review and refresh our approach to corporate governance to ensure that it is robust, well embedded and at the forefront of best practice.
We firmly support LGIMs engagement with the companies in which it invests, with a view to driving best practice and enhancing corporate governance practices, as detailed on page 40. our statement of compliance with the provisions of theUK Corporate Governance Code is set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
I am pleased to report that the Company has complied with all principles of theCode throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 andfrom that date up to the date of publication of this Annual Report.
chAnGeS to the BoARd The Board was extremely pleased to announce the appointment of Nigel Wilson as the Group Chief executive in June 2012 following the retirement of TimBreedon as Group Chief executive.
on behalf of theBoard, I would like to thank Tim for his contribution tothe success of the Company and welcome Nigel to hisnew role.
I am pleased to report that we have seen asmooth transition during the succession period and Ihave enjoyed working closely with Nigel since his appointment.
Nigel and I have spent time visiting various business locations and considering the prospects for further growth.
Nigel continues to bring an evolutionary approach to the execution of the next stage of the Groups strategy and provides continued focus on delivering for our customers, business partners andshareholders.
Following Nigels appointment, the Board reviewed thebalance of skills and experience represented on theBoard and determined that greater knowledge of theLGIM business would further strengthen the Board.
indd 56 16 03 2013 03:17 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn InSeptember 2012, we were pleased to welcome BoARd evAlUAtIon MarkZinkula, CEO LGIM, to the Board as an executive This year the Board undertook an evaluation facilitated director.
Mark is an excellent addition to the Board, by an external evaluator, KPMG LLP and the Board is bringing detailed knowledge of LGIM and also the pleased to confirm that the evaluation concluded that US market.
the Board was overall effective.
The Board recognises that good corporate governance continues to evolve Following almost nine years of service, Henry Staunton and consequently that there are steps that it could take has decided to retire from the Board and will be stepping to continue to remain fully effective in the future.
I am down as a director following this years AGM.
Henry has pleased to report that many oftherecommendations been a great asset to the Company andI would like to made by the evaluator have already been implemented thank him for his service.
The review was extremely comprehensive and included a review of over a years Board and The Board is currently engaged in a process to identify Committee papers, interviews with all Board members and appoint a new Chief Financial officer.
and meetings with the executive Committee members and other senior management.
A more detailed report BoARd dIveRSItY on the Board evaluation is set out in the Corporate Last year I highlighted the importance of a diverse Board Governance Report on page 61. and set out the Boards diversity statement.
This year theBoard has built on this statement and adopted execUtIve RemUneRAtIon aBoard diversity policy which also sets out the key executive remuneration has recently been subject to principles that must be considered when making Board intense public debate.
We support initiatives to make appointments.
The diversity policy is available to view executive remuneration as transparent and simple as on our website.
Youwill see that in anticipation of the revised remuneration regulations coming into force we have We welcome the benefits of greater Board diversity, split the Remuneration Report into two parts: a forwardincluding gender diversity, and the Board remains looking section outlining the Companys remuneration committed to ensuring that the Companys directors policy and a section reporting on implementation bring a wide range of skills, knowledge, experience, during 2012. backgrounds and perspectives.
Although we do not have a set target for the number of women on our Board, commUnIcAtIonS WIth ShAReholdeRS we endorse Lord Davies recommendations in relation And AnnUAl GeneRAl meetInG AGm to diversity.
The Board continues toincorporate board We value open, constructive and effective communication diversity considerations into its thinking on the composition with our shareholders and I have enjoyed meeting of the Board: however, all appointments will continue to with shareholders throughout the year.
I look forward to be made on merit against objective criteria, in the context sharing with you in person the successes of the Company of the overall balance of skills and backgrounds that the during 2012 at the AGM on 22 May 2013.
The AGM is an Board needs to maintain in order to remain effective.
important forum for engagement with all shareholders and gives shareholders an opportunity to raise questions The Board believes that diversity at all levels of the on this report and any other questions they may have organisation is important andis working towards on the resolutions to be put to the meeting.
At the 2013 strengthening the representation of women among AGM all Board directors will be available, as usual, to the non-Board senior management cadre the Board meet shareholders after the meeting to discuss issues directors of tomorrow.
The Board placesgreat importance on a face-to-face basis.
We would like our investors to on talent development in the organisation and I am find attending our AGM an interesting and rewarding pleased to say that Board members play an active role experience, to hear about the performance of the in mentoring individuals and sponsoring and attending Company over the last year and have the opportunity talent development programmes.
outside of the to meet members of the Board and I would encourage organisation I also devote time to furthering talent as many shareholders as possible to attend.
development through my involvement in the FTSe 100 Cross-Company Mentoring Programme and the 30% Club, which is a group of Chairman voluntarily committed to bringing more women on to UK Corporate Boards.
The Nominations Committee report sets out in more detail how diversity is considered when making John SteWARt appointments to the Board.
chAIRmAn annual report and accounts 2012 57 68906 L&G p052-069.
