GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Our board is committed to good governance and instils best practice in each of the groups divisions.
For us, good corporate governance is more than just box ticking.
John van Kuffeler Chairman CONTENTS CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW to implement a system of providing As you are aware from our previous reports, board papers electronically through use corporate governance at Provident of an iPad and Boardpad2 produced by Chairmans overview 60 Financial is about more than just following the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
Our directors and officers 62 a set of rules and guidelines.
We have This has significantly enhanced the Leadership 64 established a set of good corporate workings of the board and has been governance principles which are fully welcomed by the board as improving Effectiveness 67 embedded in our corporate policies the quality and efficiency of distribution Accountability 69 manual and they reflect the best practice of the papers, not to mention the Engagement 76 we expect from our employees.
We are environmental impact of not producing Audit committee and auditor 78 constantly seeking to develop our practices paper board packs.
and framework to ensure that we remain Nomination committee 80 I have continued to develop my at the forefront of best practice.
The relationship with the Chief Executive Other statutory and 81 key corporate functions and the senior which I believe is central to the smooth regulatory information divisional management are required to running of the board and I act as his mentor confirm compliance with the corporate and confidant in many matters and he has policies biannually.
However, not only do sought my views on a wide range of issues.
they confirm compliance, we encourage them to suggest improvements so that we As I have said previously, the Code have a dynamic process of enhancement principles establish good governance which ensures that our divisions and practice and are the most important part corporate office are always operating of the Code.
In the next few pages, I seek at the highest level.
Our approach to to explain how they have been applied governance is very much based on the by the board.
I will begin by highlighting concept that good corporate governance a number of important areas that have enhances longer-term shareholder been the subject of further development value and this includes taking action during the year.
where necessary to ensure that what RECENT DEVELOPMENTS we do fully reflects and complies with We sought to strengthen the board the principles and provisions of the UK with the recruitment of a new nonCorporate Governance Code the Code executive director, Stuart Sinclair, who published in June 2010. has both recent and relevant financial I set the board agenda with the Company services experience with a mind towards Secretary having received input from succession planning and development in the Chief Executive to ensure that the the ever-changing regulatory environment board has visibility and input into key within which the group operates.
The decisions at an early stage.
A wide range recruitment process is reported in of topics was reviewed by the board more detail in the report of the during the year and details are set out in nomination committee.
the board calendar for 2012 on page 66.
We also sought to strengthen the It is important that the non-executive board of Vanquis Bank in light of its directors are fully informed about growing significance to the groups decisions and I make sure that every performance.
We hired two new opportunity is taken, particuarly when independent non-executive directors meetings are held at operational sites, with banking and financial services by the non-executive directors to meet sector experience, Iain Cornish, formerly with the senior management teams and Chief Executive of the Yorkshire Building spend some time understanding the Society and Jonathan Roe, formerly workings of the operations.
I continually Managing Director ECM Equity Capital review the content and form of the Markets at Dresdner Kleinwort.
board papers and this year we agreed 60 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 GOVERNANCE In line with our policy on diversity which strategy, the board collectively also REMUNERATION has significant experience in financial we set out in the 2011 Annual Report and In December 2012, the remuneration Financial Statements and in particular, management, risk control, corporate committee chairman wrote to our top governance, regulatory and corporate our desire to have 25% women within ten shareholders and the shareholder the wider senior management group, we affairs issues.
advisory bodies setting out our proposed recruited Sarah Dickins to the board of the 2013 remuneration policy.
Details of the Biographical details of the members Consumer Credit Division in November work of the remuneration committee, of the board are set out on pages 62 the consultation process and the 2013 2012 and now have 22% women within and 63. the wider senior management group.
policy are set out in the remuneration BOARD EFFECTIVENESS report, on pages 86 to 91.
Finally, in May 2012 the board authorised Following the external review in the audit committee to review the RISK 2010 and the work carried out in 2011 provision of audit services to the group.
We put a significant emphasis on in conjunction with Independent Audit Following a rigorous tender process, monitoring the level of risk through Limited, we carried out a comprehensive the audit committee recommended to the work of our audit committee and internal board evaluation in 2012 using an the board that Deloitte LLP be appointed risk advisory committee.
The outputs updated and revised questionnaire.
The in place of  LLP.
of this are visited in greater detail on directors were consulted on a range of pages 69 to 75.
We remain committed OUR RESPONSIBILITIES matters and the actions identified from to building upon and indeed improving The role and responsibilities of the board the evaluation will be implemented our understanding of the key risks facing which are set out later in this report, have through 2013.
Further details can the group and refining our appetite and not changed.
The board has a clear view of be found on page 67. tolerance of such risks.
the steps it needs to take to support the As Chairman I also have a meeting development of the business and is well COMPLIANCE with the independent non-executive placed to provide the leadership necessary The company complied with the provisions directors to review the issues raised to address the challenges ahead.
of the Code throughout 2012. during the board evaluation process and BOARD MEMBERSHIP I also meet with the Senior Independent The mix of individuals on the board Director to review any issues raised John van Kuffeler largely determines the quality of concerning my performance.
Chairman the board as a whole.
Through the The next external board evaluation will nomination committee, we pay a great be carried out in 2013. deal of attention to the composition of the board and succession planning.
DIVERSITY When considering the composition of The board supports diversity in its the board, we look for the right mix of broadest sense and considers it an knowledge, experience and key skills essential driver of board effectiveness.
whilst always giving due consideration The board recognises the benefits to the to diversity.
company of diversity in its workforce and in the composition of the board itself.
It is important that the right balance is achieved which enhances the workings The board aims to have an optimum of the board.
As part of the recruitment balance of skills, backgrounds and relevant process we initiated for Stuart Sinclair, sector experience to create a diversity of we carried out an extensive review of perspective in the boardroom.
We will the board composition and considered therefore pursue a policy of appointing succession options for the role of Chief the best people for relevant roles whilst Executive with the assistance of an recognising the benefits of greater external advisor.
I believe the new diversity when considering any composition of the board has the right particular appointment.
mix of executive and non-executive Whilst there is more than 20% directors and achieves the appropriate representation of women in degree of challenge on both operational management positions, the board and strategic issues.
nevertheless recognises the benefits BOARD COMPOSITION from increasing the representation of The board comprises me as Chairman, female employees at the most senior together with three executive directors level in the company.
The board currently and three independent non-executive comprises 14% women and the aim is to directors: one of whom is a female.
ensure that a target of 25% is reached Experience, both current and past, ranges by 2015 as well as a target of 25% across various sectors of the financial women within the wider senior services and retail markets in the UK.
addition to significant strengths in the development and implementation of 61
