REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT We are mindful of the new regulations on remuneration reporting and have taken the opportunity to represent this remuneration report in the new format, albeit continuing to comply with the current regulations during their final year of application.
Manjit Wolstenholme remuneration committee Chairman DEAR SHAREHOLDER 5. in relation to the Provident Financial As part of the renewal of the PSP, As you will recall from the letter to you Performance Share Plan PSP, we are and for 2013 LTIS awards, we are in the 2011 Annual Report & Financial proposing to renew the current scheme also introducing a general financial Statements, we made some minor changes which expired in July 2012 on the basis underpin to the EPS performance to our remuneration policy and therefore that the previous plan has served the targets which is comparable to the decided it was not necessary to consult company well and that the committee TSR underpin in the LTIS.
with our key shareholders in relation to believes a PSP should form a central During the year, the remuneration the 2012 policy.
part of the remuneration policy committee considered the companys going forward.
This years remuneration report includes remuneration practices in light of the a summary of the 2012 policy and details groups risk management framework The proposal will be presented to of the proposed 2013 remuneration policy shareholders for approval at our AGM to ensure that the proposed policy does on which we consulted with our major not inadvertently promote irresponsible in May and the key features of the new shareholders and shareholder advisory PSP are as follows: behaviour or encourage undue risk taking.
The 2013 The committee is satisfied that the a executive directors will be required to policy sets salaries with due regard to remuneration policy is consistent with defer a minimum of one third of annual median benchmarks, but with the the groups overall approach to risk, but bonus into the companys shares which opportunity to earn an upper quartile intends to keep the policy under review in will not vest for three years, and may level of total pay if stretching long-term light of best practice recommendations elect to voluntarily defer up to a further performance targets are achieved and as appropriate.
one third of bonus into company shares: executive directors make a substantial investment in the companys shares.
b bonus deferred into shares will be used Manjit Wolstenholme as the basis on which matching awards The main elements of the 2013 policy will be granted under the PSP: and Chairman of the are as follows: remuneration committee c awards will continue to vest subject to 1. an increase in the base salaries of the challenging EPS targets, which will be executive directors by approximately no less challenging than those set in 2.2%, having considered the overall 2012, with half a matching share vesting increases awarded across the group: at a minimum threshold target of 5% 2. a continuation with the existing annual reduced from one matching share in bonus structure, with EPS, personal 2012 and up to two matching shares targets and divisional profit remaining vesting at the top end of the target our key annual performance metrics: range of 11% and a sliding scale between these targets.
3. for awards to be made under the Provident Financial Long Term Incentive The committee is strongly in favour Scheme LTIS, the EPS element of the of encouraging executive directors award 50% will continue to be based to build up a meaningful level of on absolute growth in EPS of between share ownership in the company and 5% and 11% with the remaining 50% therefore continuing with an updated subject to an absolute TSR target of share-matching plan with a compulsory between 8% and 15%.
The proportion deferral of part of the annual bonus of the total award that may vest for into the companys shares is considered achieving both threshold performance important in this regard, along with the targets remains unchanged at 20% of companys share ownership guidelines the total award: which have been increased for the executive directors.
4. an increase in the shareholding requirements for the executive directors from 100% of salary to 125%: and 86 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 REMUNERATION 2013 REMUNERATION POLICY INTRODUCTION This part of the report sets out the policy 1. the need to attract, retain and motivate account their size, business complexity, for the forthcoming financial year and executive directors and senior geographical scope and relative will be subject to an advisory vote at the management in determining benefit performance: AGM to be held on 9 May 2013.
Future packages, including an appropriate 4. the need to maintain a clear link remuneration policy reports will be proportion of fixed and variable pay: between the overall reward policy subject to a binding vote in accordance 2. pay and benefits practice and and specific company performance with the BIS regulations which are employment conditions both within and alignment to the business expected to be finalised in July 2013. the group as a whole and within the strategy both in the short and POLICY OVERVIEW sector in which it operates: long term: and In setting the remuneration policy 3. periodic external comparisons to 5. the requirement for remuneration for the executive directors and senior examine current market trends and to be competitive, with a significant management, the remuneration practices and equivalent roles in proportion dependent on risk-assessed committee the committee takes similar companies, taking into performance targets.
into account the following: 2013 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE This remuneration policy is anticipated to apply to current executive directors from 1 January 2013.
PURPOSE AND PERFORMANCE CHANGES FROM ELEMENT LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM TARGETS 2012 TO 2013 Salary Reflects the value Reviewed annually, Annual increases N A Increases were awarded of the individual and effective 1January.
typically linked to to a maximum of 2.3%.
those of the wider Chief Executive: Agreed following workforce.
Reflects skills and review of the budget increase from 650,000 to 665,000. experience over for forthcoming year.
Takes periodic Finance Director: Provides an account of increase from appropriate level of companies 465,000 to 475,000. basic fixed income with similar Managing Director and avoids excessive characteristics and of CCD: increase from risk arising from over sector comparators.
450,000 to 460,000. reliance on variable Targeted at or income.
Annual bonus Incentivise annual Not pensionable.
Chief Executive : Growth in group EPS.
Introduced compulsory delivery of financial maximum 120% deferral of 33% of May defer up to half Personal objectives.
annual bonus and of bonus into PSP.
voluntary deferral of a Finance Director: Clawback measure Managing further 33% of annual Relatively high maximum 100% provisions apply.
bonus into the potential rewards of salary.
companys shares for achieving Managing Director under the PSP which demanding targets.
of CCD: maximum vest after 3 years 100% of salary.
subject to continued For 2012 paid 50% service and as cash and 50% performance targets.
Performance Alignment of Opportunity to Executive directors Performance New plan to Share Plan managements voluntarily defer eligible for a measured over be submitted for long-term strategic up to 50% of annual matching award three years.
interests with longbonus and obtain of up to two times Performance targets Up to 66% of bonus may term interests of a matching based on a deferral based on absolute be deferred into the shareholders.
of up to 50% of EPS growth of companys shares.
Reduction in the provisions apply.
number of matching shares vesting at the threshold performance level from one share to a half of one share.
Two shares continue to vest at the maximum performance level.
General financial underpin to the EPS target.
87 REMUNERATION PURPOSE AND PERFORMANCE CHANGES FROM ELEMENT LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM TARGETS 2012 TO 2013 Long Term Alignment of Annual grant of Executive directors Performance A general financial Incentive managements conditional share eligible for awards measured over underpin will now Scheme long-term strategic awards.
also apply to the EPS interests with longtarget as well as the Clawback Performance targets term interests of TSR target.
EPS growth of between 5% and 11% and absolute TSR of between 8% and 15%.
Retirement Provide a range of Defined benefits Pension credit N A N A benefits schemes to enable including Cash of 30% of salary directors to fund Balance and UURBS.
their retirement in a Non-defined tax-efficient manner.
benefits including cash supplement and a contribution to SIPPs.
Other benefits Provide insured Benefits provided Life cover of six N A N A benefits to support through third-party times salary, subject the executive providers.
to the provision directors and their of satisfactory families during medical evidence.
periods of ill health or death.
Company cars or cash equivalent.
Share To provide alignment Executive directors 100% of salary for N A Guidelines increased ownership between executive are required to retain executive directors.
from 100% to 125% guidelines directors and half of the shares of salary.
shareholders vesting net of tax interests.
under the LTIS until the guideline is met.
Unvested shares held under the PSP do not count towards the guidelines.
It is anticipated that the above policy The link to RPI was removed from the In addition, TSR is used to provide an will also form the basis on which a new targets set for awards made under the appropriate external balance to the executive director or member of the LTIS and the PSP in 2012 given that a internal EPS measure under the LTIS senior management team is appointed.
the negative impact of higher rates of and is consistent with delivering superior However, flexibility will be retained to inflation on customers circumstances returns to shareholders which remains offer remuneration on appointment had the potential to encourage excessive the companys key, over-arching, outside the above policy.
Ongoing policy risk taking: b the funding costs of the long-term objective.
for the individual would then be subject group are linked not only to UK financial Absolute TSR is used as it is a more to the above policy with any changes markets but global financial markets appropriate performance measure subject to shareholder approval.
including private placements and or because the FTSE 250 is considered too bonds in the US and Europe and c RPI CHOICE OF PERFORMANCE METRICS diverse a group against which to compare is considered to have the potential to EPS continues to be considered by the relative TSR performance.
This was the devalue awards from a participants committee to be the broadest measure reason for the change to absolute TSR perspective given that it is outside of of the companys long-term financial being made in 2009.
Also, the general the executive directors direct control.
performance, is well understood and financial sector is a diverse group of therefore it remains appropriate to In light of these factors, delinking the companies, none of which is considered to continue to use it as a key metric in companys performance targets from be directly comparable to the company and our long-term incentive plans.
RPI was considered appropriate by the many of which continue to experience committee in 2012 and it is proposed that above-average historic levels of volatility.
Furthermore, EPS is fully aligned with this approach be retained in relation to However, the committee will continue our objective of continuing to deliver a the PSP and the LTIS in 2013 when it is to keep the appropriateness of this high dividend yield and thus is aligned with anticipated that similarly challenging measure under review.
our shareholder base which is weighted performance targets will apply.
Performance targets will be assessed annually when setting targets for future incentives to take account of prevailing rates of inflation.
88 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 REMUNERATION HOW EMPLOYEES PAY REMUNERATION COMPONENTS IS TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT 1.
SALARY annual bonus will be based on the groups Pay and conditions elsewhere in the EPS, personal objectives and where Salaries for executive directors and group were considered when finalising senior managers are reviewed annually by appropriate a divisional financial target, the current policy for executive directors as follows: the committee, although not necessarily and senior management.
At its meeting in December increases awarded to the executive Peter Andrew Chris 2012 the committee considered the directors were consistent with the Crook Fisher Gillespie companys strong financial performance average percentage increases awarded Measure Maximum bonus opportunity and each individuals responsibilities, elsewhere in the company and reflect Group EPS 80% 80% 20% abilities, experience and personal the strong financial performance of the Divisional performance.
The committee also company and each individual directors financial considered both the groups own salary personal performance.
target 60% structures, pay and conditions and, HOW THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Personal although used with caution, market data REMUNERATION POLICY RELATES objectives 20% 20% 20% on salary rates for similar positions in TO THE WIDER GROUP comparative companies where appropriate.
The remuneration policy described in The personal objectives element of the Accordingly, it agreed to increase the this report provides an overview of the scheme will continue to be underpinned executive directors salaries in 2013 structure that operates for the most by a threshold level of group EPS as follows: senior executives in the group.
Clawback provisions also Directors name % increase apply to annual bonus awards which Lower aggregate incentive quantum Peter Crook 2.3 665,000 will enable the committee to clawback operates at below executive director level value overpaid in the event of a Andrew Fisher 2.2 475,000 with levels driven by market comparatives.
restatement of the companys Annual Chris Gillespie 2.2 460,000 Long-term incentives are not provided Report & Financial Statements or an outside of the most senior executives error in the calculation of the extent These increases are consistent with the and are reserved for those identified to which the performance target has cost of living increases for the last two as having the greatest potential to been met.
Any bonuses paid are nonyears, with no increase having been influence group level performance.
pensionable and are not taken into awarded in 2010. account when determining base salary HOW SHAREHOLDERS VIEWS for performance-related remuneration.
ARE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT CHAIRMANS FEES As described earlier, a number of The only change in respect of 2013 is a The fees for the Chairman are fixed changes to policy are being made for modest rebalancing of bonus opportunity by the committee.
At its meeting in 2013 in light of feedback received during towards the divisional financial target February 2013, the committee reviewed the companys shareholder consultation 60% from 40% for the managing director, the Chairmans fees in the context of process including: a a reduction in the CCD.
This is appropriate given the groups the wider economic environment and level of share matching to half a share at focus on the continued improvements a benchmarking exercise undertaken by threshold performance level under the in the performance of CCD.
On the basis of these new PSP: b the introduction of a financial considerations, the Chairmans fees 3.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE SCHEMES underpin to the EPS performance target were increased by 15,000.
The companys long-term incentive under both the new PSP and the LTIS: arrangements for executive directors c the accrual of dividends to the point NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES are the Provident Financial Executive of vesting only where awards are At its meeting in February 2013, the Share Option Scheme 2006 the ESOS, structured as nil-cost options or market board reviewed the non-executive the LTIS and the PSP.
value options under the new PSP: and directors fees in the context of a d an increase in the level of the share benchmarking exercise undertaken by LTIS ownership guidelines from 100% to 125% The committee is responsible for New Bridge Street.
On the basis of this, of basic salary.
Shareholders views the fees were increased by 2,500 and selecting eligible employees, including were key inputs when shaping executive directors, to participate in and the senior independent directors fee the 2013 remuneration policy.
was increased by 5,000. for granting conditional share awards under the LTIS.
ANNUAL BONUS on grant or vesting of an award.
Until an The group operates an annual bonus award vests, a participant has no voting, scheme which provides the framework for dividend or other rights in respect of an annual incentive for executive directors the shares.
Participants are eligible to and senior management with the aim of be considered for awards annually.
The improving the companys performance aggregate market value of awards made through the achievement of certain under the LTIS in any one financial year financial and operational goals.
For 2013, may not exceed 200% of basic salary the maximum bonus opportunity will which is the normal grant policy under continue to be restricted to 120% of salary the LTIS and the committee intends to for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary grant awards at this level in respect for the other executive directors.
The of the current financial year.
performance conditions for the 2013 89 REMUNERATION For awards to be made in 2013, it is PSP The same general underpin to the EPS proposed that the performance targets The current PSP expired in 2012.
The targets in the LTIS will apply to any for the LTIS continue to be based on committee reviewed the operation of the awards under the new PSP in 2013. absolute EPS and absolute TSR, with the PSP to date and concluded that, subject ESOS range of targets remaining unchanged to a number of modest modifications, it The committee does not intend to make from 2012.
Therefore 20% of the TSR had served the company well and should further grants to executive directors element of the award will vest if an continue to form a central part of the under the ESOS in 2013. annualised TSR of 8% is achieved and 2013 remuneration policy.
Accordingly 100% of the TSR element of the award shareholder approval is being sought 4.
ALL EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES will vest if an annualised TSR of 15% is at the Annual General Meeting AGM on SAVINGS-RELATED achieved, with a sliding scale of vesting 9May 2013 to renew the PSP, with the SHARE OPTION SCHEME on a straight line basis between these modifications set out below: The executive directors together lower and upper targets.
Executive directors will be required with other eligible group employees EPS element of the award will vest if to defer a minimum of one third of may participate in the Provident Financial an annualised growth in EPS of 5% is annual bonus payable into the PSP.
plc Employee Savings-Related Share achieved, with 100% of the EPS element They may also elect to defer up to Option Scheme 2003.
Participants save of the award vesting if an annualised a further third of bonus.
They will a fixed sum each month for three or growth in EPS of 11% is achieved, with receive deferred share awards under five years and may use these funds to a sliding scale of vesting on a straight the PSP.
purchase shares after three or five years.
line basis between these lower and The exercise price is fixed at up to 20% upper targets.
There will be reduced vesting at the below the market value of the shares at lower end of the performance target The actual range of the EPS targets the date directors and employees are range, from one matching share to for awards in 2013 will be as follows: invited to participate in the scheme.
Up a half share, and up to a maximum to 250 can be saved each month.
The Annualised Percentage vesting of two matching shares at the upper current scheme will expire in 2013 and growth in EPS of EPS part of award end of the performance target range a proposal for a replacement scheme for each basic share awarded Below 5% 0% which mirrors the current scheme following bonus waiver into the updated to reflect legislative changes 5% 20% companys shares.
When awards are structured as nil-cost shareholders for approval at the 2013 AGM.
options or market value options which The actual range of the TSR targets SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN will not be the case for the most senior for awards in 2013 will be as follows: In addition to the Savings-Related executives, including the executive Share Option Scheme referred to above, Percentage vesting directors, dividends will accrue only to Annualised TSR of TSR part of award a proposal to introduce an all-employee, the point of vesting on those shares HMRC-approved share incentive plan SIP that actually vest.
Below 8% 0% will be presented to shareholders for 4.
To ensure consistency with the 8% 20% approval at the 2013 AGM.
The introduction approach taken in previous years, it is of a SIP is a further mechanism through 15% 100% intended that any awards made in 2013 which the company will encourage under the new plan based on bonus employees to acquire shares in a From 2013, notwithstanding achievement earned in respect of 2012 performance, tax-approved manner and will run against the challenging EPS targets, will be granted based on the share alongside the new Savings-Related vesting will only take place to the extent price prevailing in March 2013.
This Share Option Scheme to be proposed at that the committee considers the vesting ensures that the market value used the 2013 AGM.
Executive directors and to be consistent with the broader financial to determine the number of shares senior management will be invited to performance of the company and may comprising the deferred share award participate in the SIP on the same terms scale back vesting if this is not considered is set at a similar time to the payment as all other employees.
If approved, the to be the case.
Introducing this feature of the cash element of bonuses SIP will provide an opportunity to invest to the EPS targets is considered, with which are to be paid in March 2013. in the companys shares and benefit the already demanding EPS targets, to from the companys offer to match that 5.
The performance target will continue ensure the executive directors do not investment on the basis of one share for to be based on absolute EPS.
The actual place too great an emphasis on EPS alone.
range of the EPS targets will be no This underpin is similar to the general less challenging than: underpin which applies to the TSR target as set out on page 95.
Annualised Matching growth in EPS shares vesting Below 5% No vesting 5% Half of one share 11% Two matching shares 90 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 REMUNERATION 5.
S ERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT POLICY The committee reviews the contractual for the Managing Director of CCD.
In the event of the termination of an terms for new executive directors to All contracts operate on a rolling agreement, it is the current policy to ensure that these reflect best practice.
seek mitigation of loss by the director concerned and to aim to ensure that any Service contracts normally continue until A directors contract may be terminated payment made is the minimum which the directors agreed retirement date or without notice and without any further is commensurate with the companys such other date as the parties agree.
All payment or compensation, except for sums legal obligations.
Payments in lieu of service contracts contain provisions for accrued up to the date of termination, notice are not pensionable.
In the event early termination.
The contracts of the on the occurrence of certain events of a change of control of the company executive directors are dated 27April 2006 such as gross misconduct.
No director there is no enhancement to contractual for the Chief Executive, 1January 2008 has a service agreement providing terms.
In summary, the contractual for the Finance Director and 31 May 2007 liquidated damages on termination.
provisions are as follows: PROVISION DETAILED TERMS Notice period 12 months or less Termination payment Base salary for unexpired period of notice plus value of other contractual benefits, subject to mitigation Bonus share based entitlements There is no entitlement to bonus and there may be a pro-rata vesting of outstanding share awards in certain circumstances see below.
In all cases performance targets would apply.
Change of control Normal contractual terms, as on termination Any share-based entitlements granted to entitlement under the Annual Bonus the relevant scheme rules and are an executive director under the companys scheme will be determined based on summarised below: share incentive schemes or bonus REASON FOR LEAVING Payment Bad leaver Departure on agreed terms Good leaver e. g. resignation e. g. asked to leave due to revised e. g. ill health skill sets required for role Salary in lieu of Salary for proportion of An appropriate severance package would be Up to a maximum of 100% of full notice period notice period notice period served agreed based on individual circumstances Retirement and Provided for notice An appropriate severance package would be Retirement and other benefits up to full other benefits period served agreed based on individual circumstances notice period.
Payment of insured benefits may be triggered by the leaver event this would be governed by the terms on which the benefits are provided Bonus None None as have to be in employment to None, as have to be in employment to trigger payment trigger payment Long-term Lapse Determined at the time of departure under Committee has discretion up to full vesting, incentive the terms of the relevant scheme based on performance.
Normal practice is entitlements for pro rata vesting, including on a change of control Non-executive directors are not a further three-year term and, in The following table shows details of employed under service contracts and exceptional circumstances, further the terms of appointment for the nondo not receive compensation for loss extended if both parties agree and executive directors.
All current directors of office.
They are appointed for fixed subject to annual reappointment will seek appointment reappointment at terms of three years, renewable for by shareholders.
NAME APPOINTMENT DATE DATE OF MOST RECENT TERM EXPECTED ACTUAL DATE OF EXPIRY John van Kuffeler 29 January 2002 29 January 2002 29 January 2014 Manjit 16 July 2007 31 July 2010 31 July 2013 Wolstenholme Rob Anderson 2 March 2009 30 March 2012 30 March 2015 Robert Hough 1 January 2007 31 January 2010 31 January 2013 Stuart Sinclair 1 October 2012 1 October 2012 31 October 2015 91
