ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 45 RBS GROUP 2012 Letter from the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee Letter from Brendan Nelson, Chairman of the Group Audit Committee Dear Shareholder x the recoverability of the Groups deferred tax assets: External market conditions have continued to be difficult and managing the intensity of the regulatory agenda while remediating existing and x the methodology and assumptions underlying the Groups provisions certain new issues has inevitably determined the focus of the Group Audit for payment protection insurance and interest rate hedging products Committee during 2012.
However, I am pleased to report that against this redress: challenging backdrop, the Committee continued to meet its key objectives in the period in accordance with its terms of reference.
x the Groups provisions for outstanding litigation and regulatory investigations: and The Group Audit Committee exercised oversight of the Groups financial reporting and policy.
It monitored the integrity of the financial statements x the impact of the announcement that Santander would not complete of the Group and reviewed significant financial and accounting its planned purchase of certain UK branch-based businesses.
The Committee sought to understand and to challenge managements accounting judgements and satisfied itself that disclosures The Group Audit Committee continued to encourage enhancements to in the financial statements about these judgements and estimates were the disclosures in the Groups external financial reports.
Revised versions transparent and appropriate.
The Group Audit Committee also met the of the UK Corporate Governance Code and related Guidance for Audit External Auditors in private in advance of key meetings in order to obtain Committees were issued by the Financial Reporting Council in an independent view on the key disclosure issues and risks in relation to September 2012.
The Committee considered the new requirements and the financial statements.
has endeavoured to comply early, where appropriate to do so.
The Committee also considered the recommendations of the Enhanced In particular, the Committee has considered: Disclosure Task Force of the Financial Stability Board and the Groups plans to meet the recommendations.
I am pleased to report that several x the directors going concern disclosure including the Groups capital, of the Groups disclosures were highlighted within the report as examples liquidity and funding position: of best practice.
x the adequacy of the Groups loan impairment provisions, focusing A key responsibility of the Committee is to monitor and review the scope, particularly on the Ulster Bank loan portfolio and commercial real nature and effectiveness of Internal Audit.
As in previous years, I met estate exposures: regularly with the Head of Group Internal Audit.
The Committee also held two in depth sessions with Group Internal Audit.
These additional x the impact of the Groups forbearance policies on provisioning: meetings enabled the members of the Committee to be briefed on Group Internal Audits strategy under the leadership of Nicholas Crapp, who x the Groups valuation methodologies and assumptions for financial joined the Group at the start of the year, and to meet the senior instruments measured at fair value: management team.
The Committee ensured that the Head of Group Internal Audit has appropriate independence and authority: that the scope x the adequacy of the Groups general insurance reserves: of Internal Audit is unrestricted: that planning is appropriately risk based: and that the function has the requisite budget and resource strategy.
The x valuation of the Groups defined benefits pension schemes: Head of Group Internal Audit has a direct reporting line to me and I will continue to work closely with him as we seek to strengthen further the x carrying value of the Groups goodwill and other intangible assets: function during 2013.
45 Letter from the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee continued The Committee also monitored and reviewed aspects of the Groups influence the setting of interest rates.
The Committee met regularly to external audit in the period.
It reviewed the scope and planning of the receive updates on the investigations, including on an ad hoc basis.
It external audit and considered reports and recommendations from the worked closely with the Group Performance and Remuneration External Auditors.
It monitored the External Auditors independence and Committee to make decisions and recommendations in relation to objectivity and ensured effective controls were in place to oversee individual accountability.
engagements for the External Auditors to provide non-audit services.
The Committee undertook an assessment of the External Auditors The implications for the Groups culture and control environment were performance and recommended to the Board that re-appointment of the considered in light of this and other ongoing investigations.
The External Auditors be submitted to shareholders for approval at the Annual Committee in particular, reviewed proposed enhancements to the culture General Meeting in 2013. and control framework in the Markets and International Banking divisions.
It has monitored the implementation of remedial action in the Markets During 2012, I met with the FSA and with the External Auditors on a business and has overseen liaison with the Groups regulators.
trilateral basis as envisaged by the FSA Code of Practice.
The purpose of Independent assurance has been obtained regarding the this meeting was to discuss, in the framework of an open and cooperative comprehensiveness and timeliness of plans.
The Committee is confident relationship between the supervisor and the External Auditors, issues that the change programme will result in genuine behavioural change considered to be of interest to the parties in meeting their respective across the business as well as robust and sustainable control responsibilities.
This meeting formed part of the Committees oversight of remediation.
It will closely monitor implementation of these plans in 2013. the Groups relationship with its regulators.
Inevitably, the challenges that have arisen during the year have meant The Committee reviewed the Groups systems of internal controls and the that members have had to dedicate some considerable time to the work procedures for monitoring their effectiveness.
The Committee placed of the Committee.
I would like to extend my thanks to my fellow particular focus in 2012 on ensuring that the Group had articulated an Committee members for their continued dedication and support appropriate three lines of defence model that clearly stated individuals throughout 2012. responsibility and accountability for risk and control at all levels.
This model is expected to be fully embedded in 2013 and the Group Audit Committee will closely monitor delivery within the divisions and functions.
Litigation and regulatory investigations featured heavily on the agenda of both the Group Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee in the period, highlighting some deficiencies in the control environment.
During 2012 the Board asked the Group Audit Committee to monitor progress of the Brendan Nelson internal and various ongoing regulatory investigations and claims based Chairman of the Group Audit Committee on allegations that the Group had made inappropriate submissions to 27 February 2013 46
