ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 47 RBS GROUP 2012 Letter from the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee Letter from Philip Scott, Chairman of the Board Risk Committee Dear Shareholder, Enhancements to risk reporting have continued in the period to ensure that reports are insightful and relevant, and provide more metric based I report to you following another challenging twelve months for the Board information.
Data quality is, of course, critical to the accuracy of reporting Risk Committee.
The already demanding schedule of the Committee was and the Committee has received in depth updates on the progress of intensified in the period by a number of significant issues, most notably data quality programmes and reporting initiatives ongoing throughout the the IT incident that occurred in June 2012.
The Board Risk Committee organisation, most notably the Finance and Risk Transformation has undertaken, on behalf of the Board, to review the cause, Programme.
consequence and subsequent management of the IT incident which had such unacceptable consequences for many of our customers.
As a However, inevitably risk management tools and measures can only take priority, the Committee has overseen remediation and has sought to the organisation so far.
The future success of RBS depends upon the ensure appropriate redress for customers.
It will continue carefully to correct culture and approach that places the customer at the forefront of oversee management of residual technology risks and will ensure all decision making.
The Board Risk Committee is fully supportive of the communication with our regulators and stakeholders on conclusion of the measures being developed to engender the correct behaviours at all internal and external investigations of the incident, as appropriate.
levels within the RBS Group.
The Committee has worked closely with the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee over the past 12 While 2012 has presented significant challenges, there has also been a months to consider issues relating to individual accountability and great deal of progress on the development and implementation of risk responsibility for legacy and new issues.
Where appropriate, and control throughout the organisation.
The Board Risk Committee has recommendations have been made to the Group Performance and been pleased to exercise an oversight role in the development and Remuneration Committee in relation to risk performance and reward.
enhancement of the risk management framework and associated tools Culture, including the role of financial incentives and reward, will continue that support the Groups aim of being a safer and more sustainable bank.
to be a priority of the Committee during 2013.
The Committee has provided input into the Groups risk strategy and objectives during 2012 and has overseen the refinement and further The members of the Committee have dedicated significant additional time embedding of the Groups framework into the business divisions.
This to the consideration of risk issues during 2012 and I would like to thank has enabled the Committee to gain an improved understanding of the them for their dedication and commitment.
The business of the major risks which the Group faces, including market risk, conduct risk, Committee is set to be no less demanding in 2013.
The creation of the country risk, credit risk including single name concentrations and sector Prudential Regulatory Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority as risk regulatory risk and operational risk and to ensure robust plans are in part of the UKs twin peaks regulatory framework will be a major influence place to manage excess exposures.
The Groups stress testing and the Group will have to adapt to the new regulatory approach and capabilities have been developed and are now being used within work closely with regulators to implement changes to standards and business as usual as an effective strategic planning and capital reporting where required.
The Board Risk Committee has supported the articulation of a conduct risk appetite statement which is being embedded strategically within the Groups Policy Framework.
Conduct Risk standards are being Philip Scott communicated to staff using the four pillars of conduct risk, employee Chairman of the Board Risk Committee conduct, market conduct, corporate conduct and conduct towards 27 February 2013 customers.
The Committee will monitor implementation of these enhanced standards during 2013.
