Carl-Henric Svanberg 10-year dividend history Dear fellow shareholder UK pence per ordinary share In 2012 the board had three priorities.
First, to address uncertainty from ongoing litigation in the US and our partnership in Russia.
Second, to reinforce the strategic direction of the 40 group.
Third, to accelerate the companys momentum and build confidence.
All of these were pursued in the context of the boards active monitoring of safety and risk management.
30 Substantial progress has been made in meeting these priorities.
This progress gave the board confidence to raise the quarterly dividend by 14% in February 2012 and by 12.5% in 20 October.
The increased dividend represents an important milestone on the road to improved shareholder value.
We are maintaining a progressive dividend policy, increasing 10 returns to you, in line with financial performance and outlook.
0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 The pursuit of energy will always involve risk, so it is essential that safety remains front of mind.
From safe and reliable operations comes trust, and we need that trust if BP is to create value for you and to help meet the worlds energy needs.
Looking ahead, your board sees strong prospects for BP in a world that requires a growing US cents per ADS supply of energy.
We are aware that we still have some way to go.
We continue to face a number of uncertainties in the US, for example.
The board thanks you for your continued 400 patience and support as we work to address these issues.
In working to resolve uncertainty, two matters demanded the close attention of 300 your board.
200 In the US, the company has faced legal proceedings related to the Deepwater Horizon accident.
Our settlements with the US government, the Securities and Exchange 100 Commission and others were each important steps forward in reducing uncertainty.
0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 In Russia, the agreed sale of our 50% shareholding in TNK-BP to Rosneft, and the settlement with our partners, have brought clarity.
The disposal agreement will provide us 1 ADS represents six 25 cent ordinary shares.
with an increased stake in Rosneft, such that on completion, BP will have a 19.75% share of the biggest publicly traded oil company in the world in terms of oil production and reserves.
In due course BP expects to have two seats on its nine-person board.
BP has worked with Rosneft for some 15 years.
Our joint ambition is that BPs people, processes and technologies will help to significantly enhance Rosnefts value over time, as they did at TNK-BP.
During the year the board supported Bob Dudley, our group chief executive, on the implementation of the 10-point plan and the further implementation of the functional organization.
We worked with him to develop the group strategy beyond 2014.
Bob, the executive team and all our employees have made a huge contribution, working to reach our milestones and secure a promising future for the company during a tough period.
Bob has shown steady and determined leadership through this time.
I thank him and everyone at BP for their hard work.
The qualities of BPs employees were once again demonstrated in January 2013, following the violent attack at In Amenas in Algeria.
This shocking event deeply affected us all, but across the company people responded with great resilience.
We will always remember those who lost their lives in this terrible incident.
6 BP Summary Review 2012 As 2012 progressed the board saw the company start to move forward with greater Our strategy confidence.
It is important that this momentum continues.
For more on our strategic priorities and longer-term objectives see pages 15-16.
Our board committees have provided effective oversight of the company and its operations, which has enabled the board to focus on its three priorities.
Outside the boardroom, our non-executive directors have continued to pay visits to key parts of the business.
My own visits this year included Angola, Azerbaijan, the North Sea, Japan and the US.
The board has seen substantial change.
For this reason, we have asked Antony Burgmans to serve for a further three years.
I am pleased that we will continue to benefit from his experience and understanding of the company.
Byron Grote is retiring after 33 years with BP, including more than 12 years on the board.
I thank him for his dedication and the exceptional contribution he has made to this company.
As we move through 2013, the board is well balanced, with deep experience in our industry and a broad range of skills across business and finance.
We will refresh the board as and when required.
I believe board diversity including the representation of women at the top helps to make boards more effective.
We will continue to work to identify candidates from a range of backgrounds who can make a unique and powerful contribution to BP.
One of the vital tasks of the board is to ensure strategy is matched to the world we see ahead.
Energy remains the engine of progress, and we expect rising populations and increasing industrialization to generate strong demand to 2030 and beyond.
The world will continue to be dependent on fossil fuels in the medium term.
Along with providing the hydrocarbons needed, we are also involved in developing the resources, technologies and policies required over the long term.
Carl-Henric Svanberg at the Sangachal terminal Our industry keeps evolving.
In the past international oil companies dominated access to control room during his three-day trip to Azerbaijan top : Professor Dame Ann Dowling on resources.
Then national oil companies took control of the greater share.
But much of the the Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf of Mexico easiest-to-reach oil has been developed.
So we are now entering a third era, where middle : Brendan Nelson and Phuthuma Nhleko co-operation between partners is the key to unlocking the resources found in the most at BPs North America Gas operations in east challenging locations.
For BP, advantage now comes from exceptional capability rather Texas, US bottom.
Our future is about high-margin, high-quality production, not simply volume.
Oil will continue to be BPs prime focus, and we aim to extend our extraordinary track record in finding and developing new resources.
We will keep making selective investments in natural gas, with an emphasis on assets that generate good margins.
And we will be selective in the Downstream too, choosing to operate where our refining and marketing assets are connected to attractive markets.
Over the past three years BP has had to change.
Through our reorganization, we are a simpler company.
Through our asset sales, we are stronger financially.
Through our actions, we have reduced complexity and risk.
Our plans, priorities and direction are clear.
I see great opportunities ahead, as we continue to build a stronger, safer BP that meets the expectations of our shareholders and the wider world.
Carl-Henric Svanberg at the Sangachal terminal control room during his three-day trip to Azerbaijan below : Professor Dame Ann Dowling on the Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf of Carl-Henric Svanberg Mexico top right : Brendan Nelson and Phuthuma Chairman Nhleko at BPs North America Gas operations in 6 March 2013 East Texas, US bottom right.
