Board committees Governance overview The Gulf of Mexico committee, formed in August 2010, has done much of the heavy lifting in terms of the boards oversight of the Gulf response and litigation.
The work of this committee has been intense but invaluable in drawing together the many strands of activity in the US.
This has enabled the board to focus on its other roles, including strategy and oversight of the groups operations.
When the board decided to pursue the sale of BPs interest in TNK-BP, it was clear that this would be a complex and concentrated process.
Based on the successful experience with the Gulf of Mexico committee, we formed an ad hoc committee to advise and have oversight of the work of executive management during the transaction.
Antony Burgmans, our longest serving non-executive director, chaired this committee.
The committee has proved its value in terms of monitoring and consultation.
The transaction is due to complete in the first half of 2013.
Board meetings and board skills Our governance processes are designed to ensure that the board can carry out all of its tasks effectively.
Pressing matters have inevitably taken an increased proportion of the boards time over the past three years.
We Your board has three goals for BP: have met much more often than we would normally.
Events have meant to operate safely, to earn peoples trust, that our meetings have sometimes had to take place at short notice.
The attendance at these meetings is a reection of the very strong and to create sustainable value for commitment of the directors to your company.
The response of all the shareholders.
I believe the board is benefiting signicantly from the balance of skills and experience that I mentioned earlier.
Here is an outline of the main areas of expertise of our current board: In my letter to shareholders at the front of this report, I stated that the BP board is well balanced, with a broad range of skills and deep experience in Director Key skills and experience our industry.
The governance report which follows describes the work of Paul Anderson Oil and gas industry experience this board and its committees over the past year.
Here I give my own view of the journey that the BP board has taken from April 2010 to the present Admiral Frank Bowman Safety, technology and risk management day.
Antony Burgmans Food and consumer goods: leading a global Board evolution business In this period, the board has seen substantial change amongst both the Cynthia Carroll Oil, gas and extractive industry experience: executive and non-executive directors.
Eight out of the eleven nonleading a global business executives have served four years or less.
The intense work undertaken Carl-Henric Svanberg Manufacturing and telecoms: leading a from 2010 has unied and strengthened the board.
The team has stuck global business resolutely to its tasks, and has worked together effectively to address a number of tough challenges.
George David Technology and manufacturing Board goals Ian Davis Strategy, advisory and consulting The board has three goals for BP: to operate safely, to earn peoples trust, Brendan Nelson Audit, financial services and trading and to create sustainable value for shareholders.
The pursuit of these Phuthuma Nhleko Civil engineering, telecoms and banking goals has been the foundation of our work and will continue to be so for years to come.
Andrew Shilston Oil and gas industry experience: finance For some time the board has governed within a clear set of robust Professor Dame Ann Dowling Engineering, technology and education principles and believes that good governance involves the clarity of roles and responsibilities and the utilization of distinct skills and processes.
This Board support has enabled us to carry out the fundamental tasks of strategy BP is a global company and there are many challenges for the board to development and performance monitoring and oversight, while also address.
One of the features of our system of governance is the responding to the challenges which arose from the Gulf of Mexico independent advice and support that the board receives from our accident and wider business events.
Each committee has a dedicated secretary, and this has assisted greatly in the organization of work.
We evaluate our performance and effectiveness as a board each year.
But we continue to review and improve what we are doing, and how we are During the year BP has benefited from the insight and expertise of our doing it, as we move forward.
It is important that the board evolves so it international advisory board a group of distinguished individuals with can best support the company as it changes.
Our work during the year to deep knowledge of geopolitical issues and whose counsel has been support the fundamental reorganization of the company is one example of invaluable.
Inevitably, much of our work is focused on determining the companys approach to risk.
Over the past three years we have reviewed our governance and management of risk, and we have monitored and assessed the groups evolution of its systems.
One of the key tasks of the board is to review particular group-level risks: this review forms the basis of the boards annual forward agenda.
102 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Corporate governance Accountability Looking forward 2012 was a year of progress for BP.
Some uncertainties remain, but there is a clear direction towards 2014 and beyond.
We have a strong team around the board table.
We understand the challenges we face.
And we are clear that the company must continue to make good progress on achieving its three goals, not least sustainable value for our shareholders.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow board members for all that they have done in the year.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Chairman International advisory board In 2009, BP formed an international advisory board IAB whose purpose is to advise the chairman, group chief executive and the board on geopolitical and strategic issues relating to the company.
This group has an advisory role and meets twice a year although its members are on hand to provide advice and counsel to the company when needed.
The IAB is chaired by BPs previous chairman, Peter Sutherland.
Its membership in 2012 included Ko Annan, Lord Patten of Barnes, Josh Bolten, President Romano Prodi, Dr Ernesto Zedillo and Dr Javier Solana.
The chairman and chief executive attend meetings of the IAB.
Issues discussed during the year included events in the Middle East, the eurozone crisis, Russia and the US presidential election.
BP governance framework Owners shareholders Monitoring, BP board information governance and assurance principles: BP board t #P goal Ernst & Young t overnance process Nomination Remuneration Chairmans Gulf of Mexico SEEAC Audit Internal audit t Delegation model committee committee committee committee committee t Executive limitations Finance function Safety and Delegation operational risk function Delegation of authority Strategy group risks annual plan through policy with Group compliance monitoring officer Group chief executive External market Accountability and reputation research Assurance through Group chief executives delegations monitoring and Independent adviser reporting Independent advice Executive management if requested Resource Group people Group Group financial Group Group ethics disclosure commitments committee risk committee operations risk and compliance meeting committee committee committee GPC GFRC GDC GORC GECC RCM Corporate governance 103 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Delegation
