Corporate governance Training and visits Nomination committee The high frequency of meetings in 2012 facilitated the committees understanding of key issues and numerous interdependencies in what at Committee members times has been a fast-moving external environment.
Committee members Carl-Henric Svanberg committee chair have interacted with members of the GCRO leadership team, including at Antony Burgmans the two meetings of extended duration held in the US in 2012.
Cynthia Carroll Sir William Castell retired from the committee 12 April 2012 2012 committee activities Ian Davis The committees activities have included the following: Brendan Nelson joined the committee April 2012 Paul Anderson joined the committee April 2012 Legal Privileged briengs continue to form a significant part of the committees Andrew Shilston attends meetings of the committee in his capacity as agenda, given the breadth and pace of legal developments.
committee oversaw the resolution of numerous matters in 2012: each The committee met four times during 2012. was determined to be in the best interests of the company and its shareholders, and consistent with the overall strategy of reducing key Committee role and structure uncertainties.
These resolutions included the class-action settlements agreed with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC, the criminal The committee identies, evaluates and recommends candidates for the settlement with the Department of Justice, and the civil resolution with appointment or re-appointment as directors and for the appointment of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The committee has overseen the company secretary.
the companys continuing preparation for trial in the Multi-District The committee keeps the mix of knowledge, skills and experience of the Litigation in New Orleans, as well as a number of other litigation and board under regular review in consultation with the chairmans administrative proceedings including the multi-district litigation in Houston committee to ensure an orderly succession of directors.
The outside and suspension and debarment proceedings led by the Environmental directorships and broader commitments of the non-executive directors are Protection Agency.
also monitored by the nomination committee.
Remediation and restoration The committee reviewed and confirmed these tasks during the year.
The committee received regular updates on the progress of clean-up and remediation activities.
The committee also monitored the Natural Committee activities Research Damage NRD Assessment process, as well as discussions During the year the membership of the committee was reviewed.
with Natural Resource Trustees on NRD matters including early Brendan Nelson and Paul Anderson joined as members and Andrew restoration negotiations and projects.
Shilston was invited to attend as the senior independent director.
Claims The committee reviewed the independence and roles of each of the The committee monitored claims processes, including those relating to directors prior to recommending them for re-election at the 2012 AGM.
state economic claims and the transition from the independently It also discussed the composition of the board and its committees in administered GCCF to the DHCSSP following the agreement of classterms of service, skills and diversity.
a action settlements with the PSC.
Assessments of potential future claims for provisioning purposes are reviewed by the audit committee.
Professor Dame Ann Dowling joined the BP board on 3 February 2012 following a recommendation from the committee.
The committee had The committee recently undertook an evaluation of its effectiveness retained the services of external advisors Odgers to assist with the during 2012, as it has at the end of each year since its inception.
identication of potential candidates for this appointment.
During the year the committee considered the skills and experience Nomination and chairmans committees required for board members against the strategic direction of the company at two of its meetings.
The committee also considered the skills of the current directors and were satisfied that the board had the appropriate balance of skills and experience.
The committee discussed the boards publicly stated aspirations for diversity and agreed metrics as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The metrics agreed by the committee on behalf of the board are: t The absolute number of male and female board members to measure the boards progress in gender diversity.
t The absolute number of different nationalities on the board as a measurement of geographic diversity on the board.
The committee agreed that data on these two objectives will be included in the board performance report in the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F and reported against in future years see page 113 for 2012 board diversity data.
The committee considered the position of candidates identied as potential non-executive directors and based on the description of the required skills and experience agreed to commence searches for appropriate candidates for the medium term.
a I chair both the nomination and the chairmans See Plaintiffs Steering Committee settlements on page 60 and Financial statements Note 36 on page 236 for further information.
There is often an overlap between their work and this is reected in their reports.
Corporate governance 125 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
