Chairmans introduction Annual bonus Overall group performance was assessed at just below target.
Annual bonus results were based on performance assessed against targets established at the start of the year and reected the strategic priorities of safety and operational risk management, rebuilding trust and restoring value.
Safety and risk management results, accounting for 30% of bonus, were generally at or better than plan, with significant improvement and high standards in both loss of primary containment and process safety tier 1 incidents both key indicators of process safety.
Rebuilding trust accounted for 20% of bonus, and the company continued to make important gains as measured by independent surveys.
Restoring value metrics accounted for 50% of bonus with somewhat mixed results.
Upstream major project delivery was on target, and divestment targets were exceeded but operating cash ow, underlying replacement cost profit and total cash costs did not achieve plan targets.
The continuity of our pay structure provides a Performance shares No shares vested in the 2010-2012 share element.
Performance relatively simple, performance-based system measures for this plan related to total shareholder return, production, net tied directly to strategy.
income, and downstream profitability all relative to the other oil majors.
As the starting point for these metrics was prior to the Deepwater Horizon accident, performance failed to meet the level required for vesting.
Other elements Salaries were increased 3% mid-year for Bob Dudley, Iain Conn and Dr Byron Grote.
The deferred bonus component was first introduced Dear shareholder following shareholder approval in 2010, and so no plan is yet eligible for BP made many further positive steps in its recovery journey during 2012. vesting and will not be until early 2014.
Pension increases reect the The remuneration committee recognizes the patience of investors during application of relevant plan rules.
As Bob Dudleys dened benefit pension this period since the 2010 Deepwater Horizon accident.
Equally we is based on three-year average remuneration, its increased value reects a recognize the persistence of our executives in embedding safe and catching up with his promotion, first to the board in 2009 and secondly to effective operations deeply into the fabric of the company while group chief executive in 2010.
Similarly, Dr Brian Gilvarys pension increase systematically restoring value.
Progress is being made, reecting a clear reects his promotion to chief financial officer at the start of 2012. strategy and disciplined execution.
2013 policy Our remuneration system for executive directors is tied closely to this For 2013 our overall policy for executive directors will remain largely progress.
The companys strategy forms the basis for an annual plan and unchanged, and is summarized on page 136.
The continuity of our pay the measures and targets used for both annual and long-term variable pay.
structure comprising salary, annual bonus, deferred bonus, performance Variable pay, based on performance, makes up the vast majority of total shares, and pension, provides a relatively simple, performance-based potential remuneration for executive directors, and of that, most is system tied directly to strategy.
Salaries will be reviewed mid-year taking long-term, reecting the nature of BPs business and providing strong into consideration both external and internal relativities.
Annual bonus will alignment with shareholders.
operate in the same way as last year but the metrics have evolved slightly to reect annual plan priorities and with increased weight on restoring Our process for determining pay is both rigorous and independent.
Performance shares follow the same format as last year with minor met with a number of our key shareholders again this year to understand change in the metrics to align with strategy.
We seek to reect shareholders interests as well as to fairly reward the achievements of our executives, recognizing the Report format contentious nature of top executive pay while ensuring competitiveness The UK government has issued draft regulations on revised reporting for for our talented leadership.
We believe informed, balanced judgement, directors remuneration which are expected to be nalized later this year.
and transparency of our decisions is vital.
These principles continue to We support many of the changes planned and have incorporated these guide the committees operation and have led to large variability in total into the current report to the extent we believe is appropriate while still remuneration for our executive directors over the past decade, reecting complying with current regulations.
the underlying performance of the company.
We hope that you nd this report both informative and reassuring.
Our 2012 outcomes commitment to both shareholder interests and executive engagement The outcomes of the various plans that make up 2012 total remuneration continues, and we are confident that our approach to executive pay aligns for executive directors are summarized in the table on page 130. well with the recovery of BPs business.
Antony Burgmans KBE Chairman of the remuneration committee 6 March 2013 128 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Corporate governance s s u r n o S b o a l d a e r t r y r e a f a n e d D c p e i n s i d o s n e n e i e p a c g n Remuneration the big picture The remuneration policy for executive directors and the decisions of the remuneration committee have, for many years, been guided by key principles: Linked to strategy A substantial portion of executive remuneration should be linked to success in implementing the companys business strategy.
Performance related The major part of total remuneration should vary with performance, with the largest elements share based, further aligning interests with shareholders.
Long-term based The structure of pay should reect the long-term nature of BPs business and the signicance of safety and environmental risks.
Informed judgement There should be both quantitative and qualitative assessments of performance with the committee making an informed judgement within a framework approved by shareholders.
Shareholder engagement The remuneration committee will actively seek to understand shareholder preferences and be transparent in explaining its remuneration policy and practices.
Fair treatment The total quantum of pay should take account of both external market and company conditions to achieve a balanced fair outcome.
As reected in the diagram below, the companys strategy forms the core from which key performance indicators are established.
The total remuneration for executive directors is then tied to this via the four elements of total remuneration identied in the diagram below.
Three of the four vary with performance and the majority of their remuneration is long term.
For ease of reference page numbers in the report have been identied for each element where further detail can be found.
2012 bonus outcomes 2012 deferred see page 132 bonus outcomes - Overall bonus result 97% see page 133 of target for group results - No vesting as first plan matures in 2014 - Annual plan developed - All deferred and matched shares are from strategy and 2013 policy 2013 policy 10-point plan subject to safety and see page 138 see page 139 environmental sustainability - Unchanged from 2012 - Bonus metrics reect key - Unchanged from performance over the - 30% based on safety aspects of annual plan 2012 three-year deferral and operational risk period - Meeting plan results - 70% based on value in on-target bonus Strategy 10-point plan - Salaries reviewed - Performance 2012 salary annually taking measures reect outcomes account of both strategy and KPIs see page 131 2010-2012 plan internal and external - Salaries increased comparators outcomes by up to 3% in 2012 see page 133 - Pensions follow country - Three-year performance - No shares norms and executive period followed by 2012 pension vested in 2010-2012 directors participate in three-year retention plan outcomes regular home-country period see page 133 plans - Pension increases in line with plan rules and mainly due to promotions 2013-2015 plan policy see page 140 2013 policy - Unchanged from 2012 see pages 137 and 141 - Unchanged from 2012 Corporate governance 129 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 e a s m 2 r 8 - o 2 f 9 r P s e u r e n f o o r b p m l a a u n n c n e y A s h e a r e s K
