70 Governance Reports of the Board Committees Audit & Risk Committee Chairmans report to what non-audit services can be provided Committee members by the external auditors and the approval process related to them.
Under those policies, Meetings work of a consultancy nature is not to be offered to the external auditors unless there Eligible Member to attend Attended are clear efficiencies and value-added benets for the company.
The overall policies and Nick Rose Chairman 6 6 a processes to implement them were reviewed Clay Brendish 33 and appropriately modied in the light of the Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt 6 5 provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating Phil Hodkinson 6 6 to non-audit services that external auditors b Carl Symon 55 may not perform.
c Jasmine Whitbread 11 Nick Rose Internal audit a Clay Brendish retired from the Committee on 31 August 2011.
We review internal audit and its relationship b Carl Symon retired from the Committee on 13 January with the external auditors, including plans and 2012. Who we are c Jasmine Whitbread joined the Committee on performance.
Additionally we monitor, review 14 December 2011.
I took over from Phil Hodkinson as Chairman and report on risk management processes of the Audit & Risk Committee on 1 January and the standards of risk management and 2012.
The membership of the Committee and internal control, including the processes and Our role attendance at meetings is set out opposite.
procedures for ensuring that material business risks, including risks relating to IT security, fraud Although not members of the Committee, the The Committees terms of reference and related matters, are properly identied and Group Finance Director, Company Secretary, are available on our website at managed.
On behalf of the Board, we review Director Internal Audit and Director Group www.
com committees the groups risk prole, endorse a programme Financial Control attend each meeting as of testing of the risk mitigations and controls does the lead audit partner from our external External audit that underpin the groups assessment of auditors.
The external auditors are not We recommend the appointment and residual risk and review the groups current risk present when we discuss their performance re-appointment of the external auditors exposure and capability to identify new risks.
and consider their resignation or dismissal, recommending to the Board appropriate The Board considers that the Committees Internal controls and risks action to appoint new auditors.
members have broad commercial knowledge We review the disclosures made by the Chief and extensive business leadership experience, We assess the performance of the external Executive and Group Finance Director during having held between them various roles auditors annually by seeking views on their the certication process for the Annual in major business, Government, financial performance from key stakeholders across Report & Form 20-F about the design and management, treasury and financial function the group.
The results of the assessment are operation of internal controls or weaknesses supervision and that this constitutes a broad reported to the Committee.
The external in the controls, including any fraud involving and suitable mix of business and financial auditors are required to rotate the lead partner management or other employees who have experience.
The Board has determined that every five years, and other partners that are a significant role in the companys financial Phil Hodkinson and I have recent and relevant responsible for the group and subsidiary audits controls.
The Board, as required by UK law, financial experience as required by the every seven years.
The lead partner currently takes responsibility for all disclosures in provisions of the Code and that we constitute responsible for BTs audit is completing his the Annual Report & Form 20-F. We also audit committee financial experts for the third year.
No contractual obligations exist that receive reports on the processes for dealing purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
restrict the groups choice of external audit rm.
with complaints received by the company After each Committee meeting I report regarding accounting, internal accounting We discuss with the auditors the scope of their to the Board on the main issues that the controls or auditing matters.
This includes audits before they commence, review the Committeediscussed.
the condential, anonymous submission results and consider the formal reports of the by employees of concerns regarding auditors and report the results of those reviews questionable accounting or auditing matters, to the Board.
ensuring arrangements are in place for the proportionate, independent investigation and Independence of the external appropriate follow up of such matters.
auditor As a result of regulatory or similar Financial reporting requirements, it may be necessary to We review BTs published financial results, employ the external auditors for certain the Annual Report & Form 20-F and other non-audit services.
In order to safeguard the published information for statutory and independence and objectivity of the external regulatory compliance and report our views auditors, the Board has determined policies as Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Governance Reports of the Board Committees to the Board to assist in its approval of the the identied risks did not lead to a material Internal controls and risk results announcements and the Annual Report misstatement of the financial statements.
management &Form 20-F. Where they thought it would be effective to Risk management is given special attention do so, this work included the evaluation and by us and during the year we have heard from testing of the groups own internal controls.
What we have done each line of business and internal service We met six times in 2012 and the chart below We discussed these issues with them again unit CEO on the key risks in their part of the shows how we allocated our time.
at the time of their review of the half-year business and the actions that are being taken summary financial statements and again at to address them.
In addition, one of our the conclusion of their audit of the financial Allocation of time meetings focused solely on risk and the Chief statements for the year.
As they concluded the Executive discussed the groups enterprise- 3% 3% audit, they explained: wide risk management processes, the key risks 11% facing the group as a whole and the groups the work they had done to test risk appetite.
We reviewed the internal control managements assumptions and estimates, 40% requirements under the Code including the risk in particular in relation to major contracts management processes.
15% in BT Global Services and BT Wholesale, and how they had satisfied themselves that We received updates on the BT Global Services these werereasonable major contracts review, annual reports on they had reviewed the groups application whistleblowing and litigation trends, and of its accounting policies updates on major litigation and BT security.
28% the results of their testing of the controls Financial reporting and other procedures carried out in the major overseas locations and the issues We reviewed the Annual Report & Form Risks & controls External audit matters they had found there.
20-F 2011, together with annual, half-year Financial matters Governance and quarterly results for recommendation to Internal audit matters The auditors also reported to us the Other matters theBoard.
misstatements that they had found in the course of their work and the Committee We are keen to interact with management Effectiveness confirmed that there were no such below executive level and representatives from material items remaining unadjusted in the Our performance is reviewed annually by finance and internal audit have been invited to nancialstatements.
inviting Committee members, key executives attend meetings.
and the external auditors to complete The Committee sets time aside at each meeting questionnaires.
The results showed that we Independence of the external to seek the views of the internal and external continue to be effective in terms of both auditor auditors in the absence of management.
We undertook We monitored the extent of non-audit services our annual review of the Committees terms Our principal activities during the year were: being performed by the external auditors of reference and agreed that they remained and approved any services not included on appropriate subject to minor amendments that External audit the list of services the Committee has prewere approved by the Board.
 LLP have been approved, before the work was undertaken.
the companys auditors for many years and We also monitored the level of non-audit we carried out the annual review of their fees paid to the auditors.
Details of nonperformance by gathering feedback from audit services carried out by the external Nick Rose Committee members and senior management, auditors are in note 8 to the consolidated Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and by considering reports on the audit rms nancialstatements.
9 May 2012 own internal quality control procedures and assessment of independence.
Having assessed Internal audit the responses we did not consider it necessary We reviewed promptly all material reports on to require them to tender for the audit.
The the company from the internal auditors and appointment of  as ensured that appropriate action was taken auditor is subject to shareholder approval each on issues arising from such reports, including year at the AGM.
monitoring managements responsiveness We approved the auditors group audit plan to the findings and recommendations of the after discussion with them.
We received an annual report explained to us the programme of work on the performance of internal audit.
they planned to undertake to ensure that Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
