62 Governance Chairmans governance report Some key matters to highlight are: We continue to respond to relevant consultations on governance and consider I am delighted to welcome Karen it important to make a contribution to the Richardson who joined the Board in debate.
This year we have commented November.
She brings valuable experience on a number of consultations, including in technology and has helped strengthen the consultation on the EU Green the diversity of our Board.
paper on corporate governance and The recruitment process was led by me the Governments consultations on with the full involvement and support of narrative reporting and executive pay and the Nominating & Governance Committee shareholder voting rights.
and is explained in more detail on page72.
The Committee employed external search consultants to help identify suitable candidiates to make sure the procedure was Sir Michael Rake open and transparent.
The consultants have Chairman adopted the voluntary code of conduct for Sir Michael Rake executive search rms.
Chairman 9 May 2012 We have announced that Eric Daniels will be stepping down from the Board on the 13 June 2012 and I would like to thank As Chairman of BT, him for the value he has brought to the Board, particularly through his global I explain how your business experience.
I would also like to company has been thank Carl Symon who retired from the Board in January having made a significant governed over the contribution to the company, particularly as Chairman of the Equality of Access Board.
year, the main activities During the year the Audit & Risk Committee, as part of its focus on risk, that have been carried received separate presentations from the Chief Executive and each CEO of our lines out by the Board and of business and internal service units.
This strengthens the link between the executive its Committees, and management and the Committees how our structure oversight of risk.
Creating our five regional governance of governance and committees in the prior year has enabled the Nominating & Governance Committee controls has operated.
to have greater oversight of the governance and compliance issues worldwide.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
