72 Governance Reports of the Board Committees Nominating & Governance Committee Chairmans report around the world such as data protection are Our role monitored for their impact on the business.
The Committees terms of reference include The Committees terms of reference reviewing the policy on where BT does are available on our website at business, the training and communication of www.
com committees governance and compliance policies, and the As we reported last year, the remit of the approach to appointments to subsidiaries and Committee has been extended giving it the associated companies boards and conicts responsibility for oversight of governance and ofinterest.
compliance issues as well as our existing role of making sure there is an appropriate balance of What we have done experience and abilities on the Board.
We met four times in 2012 and the chart below shows how we allocated ourtime.
Nominating Sir Michael Rake We keep under review the size and composition of the Board and the need to Allocation of time refresh the membership so that we have the Who we are 5% appropriate balance of skills, experience, At the request of the Board, I chair the independence and knowledge of the group.
16% Nominating & Governance Committee This includes keeping under review our policy 32% although I would not participate in any on Board diversity including gender and any discussion concerning the selection and measurable objectives set for implementing appointment of my successor.
In conjunction with the skills 16% The membership of the Committee and matrix for the Board that we have developed, attendance at meetings is set out below.
With we identify the specic experience and the exception of Clay Brendish, all members of skills that we are looking for and consider the Committee served throughout 2012. candidates that are put forward by the Board 31% and external consultants.
We ensure that The Company Secretary and, where appropriate, diversity is considered as part of the shortlist at the invitation of the Chairman, the Chief process drawn up by our external consultants Regional governance Committee structure Executive attends the Committees meetings.
committees and effectiveness and, having met potential candidates, the Governance & compliance Other matters Committee makes a recommendation to programme Committee members theBoard.
Board membership including directors Meetings We advise the Board on succession planning for all Board appointments and the Company Eligible Member to attend Attended Secretary.
We also make recommendations to Nominating the Board on the re-appointment of nonSir Michael Rake Board membership Chairman 4 4 executive directors at the end of their terms of During the year we reviewed the composition ofce.
We keep under review the time required Tony Ball 4 4 and skills matrix of the Board and highlighted of the non-executive directors to carry out a Clay Brendish 22 a few areas where additional expertise would their duties and commitments and the number Eric Daniels 4 4 be beneficial, namely technology and specic of external directorships held by the Board and geographic understanding.
These would be Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt 4 4 the members of the Operating Committee.
considered in future board appointments.
Phil Hodkinson 4 4 Governance and compliance Having assessed and met with several a Clay Brendish retired from the Committee on potential candidates, a number of the 31August 2011.
We consider, determine and review BTs Committee interviewed Karen Richardson and governance and compliance in particular recommended to the Board her appointment regarding corporate governance, ethics, as a non-executive director.
We felt that this business principles, international trade and appointment would help strengthen our data preservation and protection in the UK and diversity and the Boards overall technology around the world.
We keep under review the skills as Karen brings valuable experience in US governance structure of the group including technology and internet businesses.
our regional approach to governance.
We review the processes for and effectiveness of, We recommended to the Board that the the whistleblowing procedures within BT and appointment of Phil Hodkinson be extended have a code of ethics for the Chief Executive, for three years terminable on three-months Group Finance Director and senior finance notice following the expiry of his second managers as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley three-year term, subject to rigorous Act.
Corporate governance developments Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Governance Reports of the Board Committees evaluation of his performance.
We reviewed sent out in March by the Company Secretary.
the top-down and bottom-up cascade of risk PhilHodkinsons other roles to assure ourselves The Chairman will also conduct one-to-one between the RGC and the countries in that that he continues to be independent in interviews with directors on their performance region.
The members of the Committee have character and judgement and that there are no and the Senior Independent Director will a standing invitation to join the RGC meetings relationships or circumstances that are likely conduct the annual evaluation of the and Patricia Hewitt has attended a number of to affect this judgement.
This and all other BT Chairman.
The Company Secretary will present Asia Pacic and India meetings and Eric Daniels Board appointments are subject to automatic the results of the questionnaire to the Board attended a meeting of the Latin America RGC.
termination in the event of a director not being for discussion early in 2013.
During the year each RGC chair has presented re-elected by shareholders at the AGM.
The terms of reference of the Committee at a Committee meeting and highlighted both have been reviewed and some changes the achievements of the RGC so far and also Diversity recommended to the Board which were the focus areas for the year ahead, such as the We considered the recommendations made approved in April 2012.
The key changes roll-out of the policy on agents.
by Lord Davies on diversity on Boards and include reecting that we now meet quarterly indicated a strong support for the principle The minutes of the Nominating & Governance and changing the quorum from three to two of diversity in its widest sense.
We have since Committee meetings are sent, at their request, in line with BTs other Board Committees and adopted a diversity policy for the Board.
to directors who are not members of the specically keeping under review the policy on Currently BT has 27% female representation on Committee, where appropriate to do so.
the Board and our aim is to continue to have at least 25%.
We believe strong and effective An evaluation of the effectiveness of the leadership in the attraction and appointment Committee is being undertaken by process will make sure that BT remains an questionnaire sent out in March 2012 and Sir Michael Rake organisation based on merit and provides the theresults will be reported back to the Chairman of the Nominating & Governance opportunity for talented individuals, whatever Committee at their next meeting in June 2012.
Committee their background, to lead our business.
9 May 2012 We reviewed the number of external The internal questionnaire for the next annual directorships held by the Chairman and Board evaluation mentioned below asks members of the Board and Operating for, among other things, further views on the Committee and we have agreed that the composition of the Board, including diversity, job descriptions for the Chairman and Chief and this will be reported back to the Board at a Executive be updated.
Governance and compliance Governance framework Governance and compliance programme We reviewed the membership and chairs During the year we have reviewed and of the Board Committees and made some endorsed BT group-wide policies on marketing recommendations to the Board which resulted in: development funds, conicts of interest, gifts Nick Rose taking over from Phil Hodkinson and hospitality, agents and personal data.
We as Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee also reviewed the whistleblowing procedures from 1 January 2012 and becoming a and condential hotline and received a member of the Remuneration Committee summary of key cases, issues and statistics as inDecember well as looking at outcomes of key cases.
Phil Hodkinson becoming Chairman of the Regional governance committees EAB from 14 January 2012 At each meeting we receive an update on the Jasmine Whitbread becoming a member meetings held by the five regional governance of the Audit & Risk Committee in committees RGCs : UK and Republic of December2011 Ireland: US and Canada: Europe, Middle East and Africa: Latin America: and Asia Pacic and Dame Ellen MacArthurs membership of the India sub-committee, together with the the CSRB being extended for a further minutes of those meetings.
We also receive an threeyears update on progress against key performance Clare Chapman, Group People Director, indicators.
Each RGC reviews the same core becoming a member of the CSRB from issues together with any governance or 1January 2012 and a member of the BT compliance items that are specic to that Pensions Committee in September 2011. region.
They have also developed a risk register for their region and work is in progress Having undertaken an external evaluation to ensure these are aligned with both the of the Board in 2012, we agreed that the BT group and individual lines of business next Board evaluation should be conducted registers.
Work is also underway to support internally by electronic questionnaire.
This was Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
