6 Chairmans message Welcome to our Summary financial statement & notice of meeting.
Our AGM will be held at Old Billingsgate, London on Wednesday 11July.
I look forward to seeing many of you there this year.
Our shareholders Our global presence We have delivered a very strong We serve some of the largest companies performance over the last three years.
in the world, but the regulatory This means we have been able to pay backdrop often means we cant serve sustainable, progressive dividends.
For customers as efficiently as we want to.
2012 the Board is proposing a final So internationally we continue to press dividend of 5.7p, up 14%, giving a full for policy and regulatory change, with year dividend of 8.3p, up 12% over last the aim of achieving a competitive level year.
We continue to pursue a prudent playing eld in particular, open and financial strategy, to make sure we can fair wholesale access to communications View my video invest in the business, support our pension networks.
We only seek across the world online scheme, reduce net debt and reward similar conditions to those in the UK.
com annualreport you, our shareholders.
By following this has been progress, but we want to see approach we expect to be able to grow this move faster as it is vital to innovation, dividends by 10% 15% per year for the growth and jobs worldwide.
Our communities Our contribution to the UK We believe we have a responsibility to give We contribute to the UK directly and something back to the communities in indirectly in many ways.
We look after the which we operate through contributions critical copper access network, employ of over 30m in time, cash and in-kind over 73,000 people, contribute around support, through some 50,000 days 3bn a year in taxes, and are major of employee volunteering, through investors in research and development.
our environmental and energy savings programmes, and through support for The roll-out of our bre network is one of charities such as Sport Relief and digital the fastest privately funded programmes in inclusion initiatives, we contribute the world.
We are bringing bre broadband to making a better future for our to cities, towns and rural areas across the communities.
UK and aim to pass around two-thirds of UK premises by the end of 2014.
This will Our pension fund dramatically change consumers online One of our biggest responsibilities is to our experience and enhance the way businesses pension fund and I am pleased that we can operate, bringing significant economic have agreed the 2011 triennial funding benets to our country.
valuation and recovery plan with the As ofcial communications services Trustee.
Because of our improved financial partner of the London 2012 Olympic and performance we were able to make a Paralympic Games we are contributing lump sum payment of 2bn into the fund, vital infrastructure, delivering a single giving greater certainty to our pensioners communications network across 94 and helping to reduce the size of future locations to make this the most connected deficit payments we would otherwise have Games ever.
And we are delivering the to make.
BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2012 7 into account the feedback from the other Our people As a result of our progress over the last members of the Board.
three years, around 20,000 of our people We are proposing 20 resolutions at the stand to benefit from their employee share AGM and details of these can be found in plans in 2013.
We are also recognising the Notice of meeting on pages 16 to 20. the achievements in our UK business by The resolutions include the re-election or paying each of our UK team members a election as appropriate of the directors.
250 bonus in addition to their normal These are recommended by the Board.
biographies of all the directors are set out on pages 12 to 14.
Your Board and voting at the AGM Your vote is important to us.
If you are not I am delighted to welcome Karen coming to the AGM, and you want to vote Richardson to the Board.
Karen brings on any of the resolutions, please complete valuable experience in technology and and return the enclosed AGM admission has helped strengthen the diversity of card proxy card to our Registrars, Equiniti.
You can view my video online.
You can As Karen Richardson was appointed by also nd an online audio version of this theBoard during the year, she will retire document at www.
com annualreport atthis AGM and be proposed for election.
In addition, there are online versions of All other directors will stand for re-election our Annual Report & Form 20-F, our with the exception of Eric Daniels.
Eric full statutory accounts, and other online will be stepping down from the Board on shareholder information.
13June 2012 and I would like to thank him for the value he has brought to the Our future Board, particularly through his global While our aim remains to drive profitable business experience.
I would also like revenue growth, the challenging to thank Carl Symon who retired from environment we are facing makes this the Board in January having made a more difficult, but we believe our strategy significant contribution to the Company, will continue to deliver long-term value particularly as Chairman of the Equality of for our shareholders.
The composition and skills of the Board were assessed during the year by the Nominating & Governance Committee together with members experience, independence and knowledge of the Sir Michael Rake Company.
I also met with each director Chairman individually to review their performance and have found that each of them makes an 9 May 2012 effective contribution to the Board debate and continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
My own performance during View this document online at the year was reviewed by Patricia Hewitt www.
com annualreport as the Senior Independent Director, taking
