GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE REVIEW Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman Corporate governance is a fundamental part of British Land and runs through all of our activities our relatively small number of staff and clear reporting lines enable involvement and awareness of all of our actions and processes by the Executive Directors with proper oversight by the Board.
It is more than compliance with rules and regulations and is an integral part of how we do business.
While our internal control, risk management and internal audit procedures ensure that proper controls are in place, we also encourage our staff to review their own and each others activities and outputs to confirm that correct decisions are made and to challenge each other if they think a matter appears unusual or a process can be improved.
See our detailed approach to Corporate governance P7276 Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 68 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION There is close involvement of the Executive Directors and senior British Land has developed core values that we espouse and management in every aspect of the Groups activities, close scrutiny that represent our method of behaviour under the headings of all important matters under consideration and discussion with of Integrity, Excellence, One Team and Commercial Acumen.
the Non-Executive Directors before important decisions are made, These values operate and are encouraged both internally and with major matters requiring discussion by and approval of the externally throughout the business.
Board before they can proceed.
We also recognise our responsibilities to the communities For example, all the significant transactions that took place in which we operate and to the wider society.
The scale of our during the year such as the agreement to lease 191,000 sq ft in activities brings many benefits, supporting employment, The Leadenhall Building to Aon, the acquisition of 17 Virgin Active regenerating local areas and contributing to the UK economy.
premium racquet club properties around the UK, the 92 serviced apartments at Wardrobe Court in the City and the $480 million US In summary, British Land continues to fully recognise and private placement were all progressed after detailed due diligence welcomes the fundamental importance of corporate governance and consideration, both informally and formally, throughout the to its business.
Good corporate governance is a mixture of Group and with the consideration and or approval of the relevant meeting both the letter and spirit of the law and results both from committees, subsidiary and joint venture boards and the Board.
compliance and from organisational culture, marked by high standards of consistency, responsibility, accountability, fairness, Corporate governance and its surrounding regulations continue transparency and effectiveness, while ensuring the correct to evolve and expand.
However, the basics of good corporate controls and procedures are in place.
We believe that we have governance remain the same they create an environment met and continue to meet these standards.
that facilitates the right decisions being made by the appropriate boards and committees at the right time and with the benefit of all relevant information.
They set up a series of checks and balances that enable our Board and its committees to monitor outturns Chris Gibson-Smith and maintain operating efficiency which support the Companys Chairman performance and corporate responsibilities.
They include making sure that the Group has a clear strategy going forward and that the necessary people, financing and structures are in place to support that strategy: the Board, including the Non-Executive Directors and together with members of the Executive Committee, met over two days in February 2012, as it has in previous years, to review, discuss and confirm the Groups strategy going forward.
The Board actively considers and promotes diversity in the workplace and the Boardroom and I was particularly pleased to appoint Lucinda Bell as our Finance Director during the year.
We invest time on governance not just because we have to, but because we believe it benefits the Company, including its staff and its shareholders.
Part of this is ensuring our staff enjoy a good working environment, that our communication throughout the Group is good and that there is plenty of interaction between people at all levels not just work related but also on social activities and on volunteering, which is part of our extensive corporate responsibility sustainability programme.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 69
