Strategic review Governance Chairmans introduction Financial statements Other information Governance Dear Shareholder Your Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the long-term success of the Group, and sets the strategic direction, governance and values of the business.
Effective governance is important to our organisation and during the year the Board has sought to review and maintain appropriate governance practices whether or not those are mandatory.
In the section that follows we set out our approach to corporate governance and provide further details about Board membership and our governance framework and report on the activity of the Board and its Committees during the year.
During 2012 we welcomed Gwyn Burr as a Non-Executive Director to the Board.
Gwyn brings significant expertise in understanding and delivering customer service for major retail brands, experience which is fundamental to our future strategy.
At the beginning of 2013 we also welcomed Jean-Philippe Mouton as an Executive Director.
Jean-Philippe is currently Managing Director for Hammerson France, a position he has held since 2009.
He will retain management responsibility for the French business, as well as assuming responsibility for Group marketing.
His wide commercial and marketing background will prove highly valuable to the Board, as we focus on creating winning retail destinations for the future.
We are a diverse Board and the Directors come from a range of business backgrounds, as you can see from their biographies set out on pages 52 and 53.
I believe that we have the balance of skills and depth of experience to add real value to the Company.
When considering any future appointments we will continue to consider diversity as part of the robust, merit-based approach that we use for the consideration of all Board appointments.
We do, however, keep the make-up of the Board under review and we also appraise the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors annually.
As announced in January 2013, I will retire as Chairman at the AGM in May and be succeeded by David Tyler who joined the Board in January 2013.
He was appointed following a thorough process conducted by the Board under the leadership of Anthony Watson, Senior Independent Director, with the benefit of external advice.
David has considerable experience of both retail and finance, which will prove invaluable as the Company continues in its aim to be the best owner-manager and developer of retail property in Europe.
John Hirst has been a Director of Hammerson for nine years and Chairman of the Audit Committee for over seven years.
In light of my decision to retire, the Nomination Committee determined that John Hirst remained independent and decided that, notwithstanding his length of service, the Board would ask him to continue as a Non-Executive Director and as Chairman of the Audit Committee until the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
I am pleased to say John has confirmed his willingness to do so.
You can read about the work of our Nomination Committee on page 56, and of our Audit Committee on pages 58-60.
John Nelson Chairman 50 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012
