Corporate Governance INTRODUCTION BY THE CHAIRMAN The evaluation concluded that the performance of the Governance overview Board, its Committees and each individual Director was The division of responsibilities between my role as and remains effective and that all Directors demonstrate Non-Executive Chairman, and the roles of the Joint Chief full commitment in their respective roles.
As a result of Executives, is clearly defined, set out in writing and one of the findings of both the 2011 and 2012 evaluations, reviewed annually by the Board.
I am responsible for the the Board continued to look at succession planning at leadership and effective working of the Board, ensuring both Board and Senior Management Team level during that all members of the Board, including in particular the year and this work will be ongoing in 2013. the Non-Executive Directors, have an opportunity to The 2013 Board evaluation will be externally facilitated as contribute effectively, and that there is appropriate and is required by the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code timely communication with shareholders.
and the process for appointing the facilitator with which The Board has delegated executive responsibility for the Board decides to work will be set out in the Annual running the Group to the Joint Chief Executives who are Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December responsible for the strategic direction and operational 2013. and financial performance of the Group.
There is a schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision and the Board meets at least five times a year with ad hoc meetings as required.
Diversity The Board is keen to ensure that Hansteen benefits from the highest quality Board comprising individuals with James Hambro an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
We Chairman are proud to be a diverse business at all levels.
As at the date of this report, female employees account for 43% 8 March 2013 of the total Hansteen workforce with 73% of our female employees holding a professional qualification.
Hansteen will continue to ensure that all appointments throughout the business are made on merit against objective criteria.
Board evaluation The annual evaluation of the Board, its Committees and each individual Director was undertaken at the end of 2012.
The results focused on improving the processes and practices of Board administration that were put in place upon our elevation to the FTSE 250 in 2011.
