Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Introduction by the Chairman of the Board Patrick Burgess Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to introduce our Corporate governance report for the year.
Through the work of the Nomination and Review Committee, and theBoard as a whole, we regularly review our performance notably 2012 has been another year of considerable progress for the Group, through the formal annual performance evaluation process and the with the Boards strategic plans being delivered through a number balance of skills and experience among our Directors as well as their oftransactions and large projects including: independence.
Following the decisions of John Abel and Rob Rowley G Acquisition of KGV Docks West and an option to buy land in Malaga, to step down as Non-Executive Directors at the 2013 AGM and at Spain from the Peel Group and associated shareholder meeting the end of the year respectively, we announced the appointment of Adle Anderson on 22 February 2013 as an additional Non-Executive G Issue of a 300m Convertible Bond in October 2012 Director and member of the Audit Committee.
Adles appointment, G Sale of shares in Equity One, Inc. the result of a formal appointment procedure, supports our G Acquisition of units at the Centaurus Retail Park adjacent to the commitment to diversication in the boardroom whilst ensuring that Mall at Cribbs Causeway we appoint only the best candidate for the role.
The new appointment G Acquisition of Capital & Regionals 50 per cent interest in demonstrates the effectiveness of the Nomination and Review Xscape, Braehead Committees succession planning process and ensures our continued compliance with the independence requirements of the Code.
G Acquisition of StyleMeTV G Re-branding project a 25 million investment to create a On behalf of the Board, I would like to express our sincere nationwide consumer-facing shopping centre brand, intu, and a appreciation to John and Rob who have each made a significant transformed digital proposition including the installation of a new contribution to the Board over the tenure of their appointments, bre optic network for every centre, the provision of free WiFi andI am pleased that Rob will remain on the Board until the end throughout the malls and the launch, in spring 2013, of intu.
co. uk, of2013 to ensure a smooth handover of his responsibilities as atransactional, fashion-focused, mobile-enabled website AuditCommittee Chairman to Adle Anderson.
G Implementation of a new Board Protocol to deal with related The Audit Committee, and the Board as a whole, are aiming to adopt partyissues the new requirements of Section C of the Code, during the course of G Overhaul of the Group remuneration policy and associated large 2013.
The new requirements largely relate toadditional measures to shareholder consultation.
assure the integrity of the AnnualReport.
I believe that the principles of good corporate governance have I believe that our approach to good governance is robust underpinned the Boards discussions relating to all these andeffective and that the procedures adopted and followed by transactions and projects and have underpinned the Boards theBoard as further described in the following report ensure that deliberations generally.
good governance remains at the forefront of our concerns and at theheart of our management at all stages ofour deliberations.
The Board has operated effectively throughout the year and it is my Iampleased to confirm that Intu has complied in full with the 2010 role as Chairman to ensure that Board meetings provide a forum for UK Corporate Governance Codeduring 2012. constructive debate, with the best interests of the Company and its shareholders at its core.
We endeavour to ensure wherever possible, recognising that there are occasions where meetings must by their nature be convened at short notice, that all of our Directors can and do attend all Board andCommittee meetings having had sufficient time to digest the matters to be discussed in order that they can Patrick Burgess contribute effectively to the debate, providing constructive challenge Chairman andcomment and bringing to bear a depth of independent views 27 February 2013 developed from a range of business backgrounds andexperience.
Compliance Statement Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code: The Company has, throughout the year ended 31 December 2012, complied with all provisions of the 2010 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are contained in this report, except for those required under DTR 7.2.
6 which are contained in the Directors report.
Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 63
