Afren plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Chairmans overview The Board plays an important role in working I recognise that, as Chairman, it is my role Introduction from with management to ensure our business toprovide the leadership to the Board to theChairman isone that is well governed, that any risks enable it to discharge its role effectively.
identied are mitigated, that it is nancially TheBoard takes seriously its responsibility Mr Egbert Imomoh strong, and that an appropriate balance forpromoting the Groups values.
We have between promoting long-term growth and made it clear that it is unacceptable for our delivering short-term objectives is achieved.
companies and employees to be involved Itis our commitment as a Board to maintain orimplicated in any way in corrupt practices, aculture which expresses our core principles and we continue to keep our anti-corruption of respect, honesty and transparency.
This policies and practices under review to ensure isbased on the recognition that good that they fully reect this approach.
governance is fundamental to achieving our Following the publication of revised goal to create and protect value on behalf Dear Shareholder guidance by the Financial Reporting Council, ofthe Companys shareholders.
We strive to we have taken the opportunity to review Good governance is central to our business, demonstrate ethical leadership and promote our arrangements for ensuring the and I believe that it is core to the Groups the collective vision of the Groups purpose, continued independence and objectivity of ongoing development and strategy.
As values, culture and behaviours.
We consider that our Chairman I believe that good governance corporate governance is vital to achieving our relationship with Deloitte LLP is satisfactory ismuch more than a matter of compliance objectives.
We have formalised our focus on but have updated our policy on auditor and I acknowledge and welcome the maintaining high ethical standards and strong independence in line with the Boards critical responsibility and obligation personal integrity in our Group Code of recommendations of the 2012 revision of to ensure that the Group has the right Business Conduct, which is implemented the UK Corporate Governance Code the people, culture and structures in place to across the business and clearly sets out Code and will put the external audit make the right decisions for our business expectations of how our employees and contract out to tender at least every ten and for our shareholders.
Our governance those who work for or on behalf of Afren years.
The timing of the next tender will be framework isdesigned to be exible and should behave.
The Board sets the tone aligned with the cycle for rotating the audit efficient in delivering growth in shareholder from the top for the organisation and works engagement partner.
value in a manner which is sustainable in with management to embed the values of thelong term.
Board structure Board composition As at the date of this Annual Report, theCompany has a Board of nine Directors Board of Directors Mr Egbert Imomoh Mr Peter Bingham Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Dr Osman Shahenshah Mr John St. John Chief Executive Non-Executive Director The Chairman Mr Shahid Ullah Mr Ennio Sganzerla ChiefOperating officer Non-Executive Director Mr Darra Comyn Mr Toby Hayward GroupFinance Director Non-Executive Director Audit Remuneration Nomination Disclosure Executive Mr Patrick Obath andRisk Committee Committee Committee Directors Non-Executive Director Committee Patrick Obath joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 2 February 2012.
Biographical and related Executive information about the Directors, including details of Committee relevant skills and experience, is given on pages 70 to 71. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69 This years evaluation of the Board, which This section of the Afren Annual Report Afren governance framework forthe second year running was facilitated describes how the Company has applied The Board is collectively responsible to the externally, confirmed that the Board continues themain principles and complied with the Companys shareholders for the long-term to meet these obligations.
Following the provisions of the Code throughout theyear.
success of the Group and for its overall annual performance evaluation process, I am strategic direction, its values and its In this report we discuss the key features of pleased to confirm that each of the Directors, governance.
It provides the leadership the governance structures, processes and particularly the Non-Executive Directors, necessary for the Group to meet its business people we have set up to achieve our performance and contribution continues to be objectives within the framework of its objectives.
We have also outlined key objective, timely, thoughtful, challenging and internal controls, while also discharging the elements of the activities of the Board and relevant.
In addition, each Director has Companys obligations to its shareholders.
its committees during the year.
We continue demonstrated, and continues todemonstrate, to embrace the provisions and principles of The Boards principal responsibilities include: excellent commitment tothe role, ensuring the Code and the Board will continue to sufficient time is available for meeting Approving the Groups business strategy attach the highest priority to its compliance preparation and non-scheduled meetings.
and ensuring that an effective with the Codes principles.
Our statement management team and the necessary At our AGM in June 2013, we will put below explains how we have applied those financial and human resources are in place allofour Directors up for re-election principles in 2012 and, where specic for the Group to meet its objectives incompliance with the UK Corporate provisions may not appear to have been Governance Code and anticipate continuing met, provides a detailed explanation.
Agreeing the Group budget to put all Directors up for re-election I am proud of Afrens commitment to doing Approving the Companys Annual Report annually.
The Board has proposed a special the right thing by our staff, shareholders and and reviewing its periodic financial reports resolution to adopt New Articles to the the wider community and of the efforts AGM.
The New Articles incorporate Where appropriate, declaring an interim taken by our Directors and staff during 2012 amendments to the current Articles of dividend and recommending a final dividend to adopt the spirit of good corporate Association the Current Articles to entrench governance.
If any shareholder wishes to Agreeing the agenda for the Annual the recommendation for all Directors to contact me in relation to any of the content General Meeting submit themselves for re-election every year in this section of the Annual Report, please and includes an update to reect current Agreeing Board succession plans and contact me at the Companys address via the market practice.
considering the evaluation of the Boards Company Secretary.
performance over the preceding year Egbert Imomoh Reviewing the Groups risk management Chairman and internal control systems Agreeing the Groups governance framework and approving the Standards Composition Tenure of Non-Executive Directors of Business Conduct and other Group policies Non-Executive Directors 5 0-3 years 1 1 Executive Directors 3 4-5 years 2 1 Chairman 1 6-10 years 2 2 3 5 2 Nomination Audit and Risk P80 Committee P81 Committee Experience Oil and Gas Industry 6 2 Engineering 4 6 Finance 4 4 Remuneration Capital Markets 4 P85 Committee Accountancy 2 4 4
