Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Chairmans introduction to governance Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Dear shareholder about on page 24 and, as one of the leading On behalf of the board, I am pleased to experts in his fi eld, we look forward to Peters present the Corporate Governance Report for contribution as a member of the board.
the fi financial year ended 1 September 2012.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the At Debenhams we remain committed to UK Listing Authority, I confi rm, on behalf high standards of corporate governance.
of the Company, that throughout the year We believe this is central to the continued ended 1 September 2012 and as at the date strong performance of the Group in a manner of this Annual Report, it was compliant which is sustainable over the long-term with all the relevant provisions as set out in and to maintaining the confi dence of our the UK Corporate Governance Code issued shareholders.
For us, good governance is by the Financial Reporting Council.
about responsible and eff ective management Good governance is about As with last year, all the directors will submit of the business in a way which demonstrates themselves for re-election at the Annual responsible and eff ective honesty, transparency and accountability.
Peter management of the In this report we set out how the board and Fitzgerald will stand for election having been its committees are structured and what they appointed to the board on 4 October 2012. business in a way which have done during the year.
Biographies for the members of the board demonstrates honesty, can be found on pages 56 and 57 of this The board has the ultimate responsibility Annual Report.
transparency and for the Groups performance and for overseeing the management of risk.
Details of the Annual General Meeting itself accountability.
As such, it is right that shareholders look are enclosed with this report.
The board and to us to promote the long-term success of I look forward to meeting with shareholders Debenhams.
As Chairman, it is my role to in January.
provide the leadership to enable the board Nigel Northridge to do this eff ectively.
This year I therefore Chairman personally conducted the board evaluation process.
You can fi nd more details on this process and its outcome on page 59 of this report and I confi rm that all of the directors continue to perform eff ectively and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
There have been several changes to the board composition over the past year.
Most notably, Michael Sharp was appointed Chief Executive on 4 September 2011.
Simon Herrick took up the role of Chief Financial Offi cer on 10 January 2012, replacing Chris Woodhouse.
Adam Crozier stepped down from the board on 1 September 2012.
Subsequent to the year end, on 4 October 2012 we announced the appointment of Peter Fitzgerald as a non-executive director.
Peter has a wealth of experience in helping retail businesses to realise their online ambitions with acknowledged industryleaders Amazon and Google.
Growing our multi-channel business is a crucial part of Debenhams strategy which you can read Management structure Michael Sharp Chief Executive Simon Herrick Suzanne Harlow Mike Goring Richard Cristofoli Nikki Zamblera Chief Financial Officer Group Trading Director Retail Director Marketing Director HR Director Financial reporting and Design, buying, merchandising, UK and international store Product marketing, advertising, Pay & reward, learning & management, tax, treasury, distribution, sourcing, supply operations and store PR, visual and creative, strategy development, pensions legal, internal audit, investor chain and external business development and insight and facilities relations, systems and logistics Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55
