PS Walsh Governance What are the service contracts and terms 000 85 a of employment for the executive directors?
Unilever 106 Board of directors and a executive committee The executive directors have rolling service contracts which FedEx Corporation 65 provide for six months notice by the director or 12 months notice 87 DECC 20 Directors by the company and contain non-compete obligations.
In the Avanti with effect from January 2012 17 remuneration event of early termination by the company without cause, the report 208 agreements provide for a termination payment to be paid 104 in respect of that part of the notice period not provided to the Corporate Notes governance report director by the company to PS Walsh equivalent to 12 months a Fees paid in currencies other than sterling are converted using average exchange rates for the year ended 30 June 2012. base salary for the notice period and an equal amount in respect 114 Directors report of all benefits, and to D Mahlan equivalent to 12 months base In line with the FedEx Corporation policy for outside directors, salary for the notice period and the cost to the company of PS Walsh is eligible to be granted share options.
During the year providing contractual benefits excluding incentive plans.
ended 30 June 2012, he was granted 5,970 options at an option Any such payments would be subject to tax and other statutory price of $68.765.
He exercised 8,000 FedEx options during the deductions.
The remuneration committee may exercise its year, which were granted at an option price of $49.23 and sold discretion to require half of the termination payment to be paid in at an average price of $90.27.
monthly instalments and, upon the executive commencing new employment, to be subject to mitigation.
If the board determines that the executive has failed to perform his or her duties Chairman of the board and competently, the remuneration committee may exercise its non-executive directors discretion to reduce the termination payment on the grounds of What is the policy on chairman of the board and poor performance.
PS Walshs service contract with the company non-executive directors fees?
D Mahlans service contract with the r 5IF GFFT TIPVME CF TVDJFOU UP BUUSBDU NPUJWBUF BOE SFUBJO company is dated 1 July 2010. world-class talent.
r 'FF QSBDUJDF TIPVME CF DPOTJTUFOU XJUI SFDPHOJTFE CFTU What happens to share awards when practice standards for such positions.
r 5IF DIBJSNBO BOE OPO FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST TIPVME OPU participate in any of the companys incentive plans.
On cessation of employment, outstanding awards under share r 1BSU PG UIF DIBJSNBO T GFFT TIPVME CF VTFE GPS UIF QVSDIBTF incentive arrangements will be treated in accordance with the of Diageo shares.
relevant plan rules approved by shareholders in 2008.
As set r 'FFT GPS OPO FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST TIPVME CF XJUIJO UIF MJNJUT out in last years remuneration report, in light of the role of the set by the shareholders from time to time, currently CEO in the delivery of shareholder value, the committee 1,000,000, as approved by shareholders at the October 2005 proposes to enable vesting of PSPs granted to the CEO from Annual General Meeting.
The limit excludes remuneration 2011 to be based entirely on the delivery of that performance.
paid for special services performed by directors.
Accordingly, awards will be capable of vesting in full at the end of the performance period, if performance goals are delivered in What terms and conditions apply to the chairman full, without providing time pro-rating to the point of retirement.
Such consideration would be at the sole discretion of the The chairman of the board, Dr Franz B Humer, commenced remuneration committee, taking into account all the his appointment on 1 July 2008.
Dr Humer has a letter of circumstances it considers relevant at the time.
appointment for an initial five-year term from 1 July 2008.
It is terminable on six months notice by either party or, if terminated What external appointments are held by by the company, by payment of six months fees in lieu of notice.
The chairmans fee is normally reviewed every two years Executive directors may accept external appointments as and any changes would normally take effect from 1 January.
non-executive directors of other companies and retain any As recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, any related fees paid to them, subject to the specific approval of changes to this fee have to be approved by the remuneration the board in each case.
The last scheduled review of fees was undertaken in During the year ended 30 June 2012, PS Walsh served as December 2010 and the next review is anticipated to take place a non-executive director of Unilever NV and PLC, and FedEx in December 2012 with any changes taking effect on 1 January Corporation and, with effect from January 2012, was appointed 2013.
Fees are reviewed in the light of market practice in large as a non-executive director of Avanti.
He retained the fees paid to companies in the United Kingdom and anticipated workload, him for his services.
At the governments request, PS Walsh also tasks and potential liabilities.
In line with Diageos policy, a served as lead non-executive director and deputy chair on the proportion of the chairmans annual fee is used for the monthly board of the Department of Energy and Climate Change DECC.
purchase of Diageo ordinary shares, which have to be retained PS Walsh has committed to donating all fees that he receives for until the chairman retires from the company or ceases to be a this directorship to a charitable educational trust.
The total director for any other reason.
The chairmans current fee is shown amounts of such fees paid in the year ended 30 June 2012 are set in the following summary table.
No changes were made to the out in the table below.
D Mahlan did not hold any external chairmans fee during the year ended 30 June 2012. appointments during the year ended 30 June 2012.
With effect from 1 September 2012, D Mahlan will serve as a non-executive director for Experian Plc.
