Directors Report Corporate Governance Chairmans Introduction In 2011 12 our first externally John Allan facilitated Board effectiveness review was undertaken.
It has been a busy year in the Corporate Governance world, one in The Board believes that it has the right management team in which corporate governance and executive pay issues have been at place to move the business forward.
As such the Remuneration the forefront of public attention.
Your Board keeps itself fully abreast Committee has worked hard on designing this years remuneration strategy in order to incentivise and motivate the new management of developments and, where they consider appropriate, apply them team to deliver the Groups priorities.
The decision was taken to work to the running of the Group in order to adopt best practice in the within the current long term incentive plans already in place and, for elds of corporate governance and executive pay.
this year only, a one off award of 200% of salary will be made under Effective governance is at the core of any well run business and at the Performance Share Plan and also a grant of options under the Dixons Retail, we strive to embed governance principles in the day Executive Share Option Plan.
We have consulted with our major today operation of the business.
The non-executive directors work shareholders in nalising this years long term incentive proposals inpartnership with the executive in the spirit of collaboration.
We and have taken on board input provided.
More information on this believe governance is not just about compliance, but how we work can be found in the Remuneration Report.
together to challenge, interrogate and support each other to ensure effective decision making and implementation, leadership and The Board welcomes the recommendations of the Davies Report on accountability in all aspects of our business.
gender diversity and is committed to developing a diverse workforce and equal opportunity for all.
We are absolutely committed to It has been a year of change for the Board.
After almost nine years opportunity and diversity in the Boardroom and senior management Andrew Lynch stepped down from the Board on 9 May 2012. team.
However, we are not supportive of specic quotas, preferring We were pleased to announce that his role as Chairman of the instead to make appointments based on merit.
During the year we Audit Committee would be taken by Jock Lennox.
Jock was a senior have appointed an additional female director, Katie Bickerstaffe, and audit partner at Ernst & Young EY where he led a number of major currently the Board has two female directors 22% and 25% of its multinational client relationships, reporting to and advising the boards senior management are women.
on a range of complex audits, financial restructurings and corporate transactions.
Jock held a number of leadership positions at EY in The Board engaged the services of Independent Board Evaluation the UK and globally.
Jock retired from EY in 2009, since then he tolead our first externally facilitated Board effectiveness review.
The has been chairing the Audit Committees of a number of UK listed review was performed in a spirit of openness with the directors being companies.
Jock, therefore, has the recent and relevant financial fully engaged in the process.
The Board has been pleased with the experience to perform this role and from which the Group will benefit.
results and in particular, that its corporate governance practices were seen to be a strength.
Some improvements were also identied, In addition to the changes above, John Browett, as Chief Executive, many of which we have already begun to address.
More details and Nicholas Cadbury, as Group Finance Director, both left during canbe found on page 50. the year.
It is a testament to the strength and breadth of talent We are committed to effective shareholder communication.
within the business that both replacements, Sebastian James and A keyaspect of this is the Annual General Meeting AGM which Humphrey Singer, were promoted from within the Group, as was the will again be held at the Holiday Inn London-Bloomsbury, on third executive director appointed during the year, Katie Bickerstaffe.
These internal appointments have enabled continuity of leadership.
Thismeeting enables us to answer any questions In the light of the Board changes outlined above, we have identied you may have on strategy or how we have run the Group during the the need to refocus our attention on succession planning in order to year.
In line with the Code, all of the Directors will again be offering secure and develop the future leaders of theGroup.
themselves for re-election or election at the meeting and the Board has no hesitation in recommending their election.
John Allan Chairman 46 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2012
