Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc PB Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 21 Governance Letter from the Chairman Geoff Cooper Chairman Dear Shareholder, Your Board now comprises three excellent executive directors Significant developments occurred in both external and internal and three diligent NEDs, together with myself as Chairman.
governance matters in the last financial year: We believe this 3 plus 3 plus 1 model is right for the business.
Succession, both to the Board, and in senior management has Externally there was heightened public awareness and debate been given a lot of attention and remains under constant review.
about governance matters and their wider impact: important government consultation: and new guidance on remuneration.
The Board conducted an internal review, led by me, of its performance and processes towards the end of the year.
Dunelms governance activities included our first governance Key recommendations related to focusing our attention more presentation to shareholders: an initiative by us to engage onto key strategic developments and metrics, giving more pro-actively with voting services: our new Chief Executives first attention to the top level risks emerging from the Groups risk full year leading the company: and the appointment of a new management framework and widening the Boards exposure to Non-Executive Director, Matt Davies.
experts in emerging aspects of our business environment and operations.
The review also involved feedback to individual I have asked Marion Sears, who chairs our Remuneration and Board members on their performance as directors.
Nominations committees to write a separate personal letter to you as part of this annual report, to cover, particularly in In the present environment, we expect the attention on companies remuneration matters, our response to relevant governance governance arrangements to continue.
Through the approach I matters dealt with by those committees.
have described, we hope to keep pace with developments whilst retaining an efficient and effective governance environment for the Overriding our approach to governance is our view that good, Dunelm business.
sensible and pragmatic application of governance requirements leads to stronger value creation and lower risks for shareholders I look forward to meeting shareholders at the AGM in November.
and our starting position is that we will seek to comply with all requirements.
However, our judgment is that good governance is Yours sincerely, ensured more by the culture and ethics of the boardroom than by rote application of guidelines.
Is this the right thing for Dunelm?
is the most frequent point raised when your Board is Geoff Cooper handling governance matters.
As a relatively young, and fast Chairman of the Board growing plc with a dynamic trading culture, we are always careful 13 September 2012 to ensure the essence of good governance whilst implementing simple, cost-effective and practical governance arrangements to which the Board pays real attention.
Our governance presentation, our increased contact with voting services and the individual contact by NEDs with shareholders has generally met with a positive response and we intend to repeat these activities in 2012 13.
These have allowed us to discuss our approach to governance interactively and go beyond formal reporting to explain the thinking behind our current arrangements.
Amongst the various factors that help create the right approach by the Board, the most important are: the skills, experience and diversity of individuals around the board table: a small, unified team and yet a challenging debating environment: and a high level of engagement by all directors.
In particular, NEDs are expected to engage regularly with senior and middle management colleagues, visit stores and other facilities, report on their activities and observations at every board meeting and attend selected family and institutional shareholder meetings and events.
