Governance easyJet plc 39 Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Chairmans statement on corporate governance The review of our remuneration policy and consultation with shareholders took place under the auspices of the Committee and further details of the review and consultation can be found in the Directors remuneration report.
Charles Gurassa also took over the chair of the Nominations Committee last year.
As a result of appointing three new Non Executive Directors towards the end of the last financial year, there has been no need to appoint any further Non Executives and consequently the Nominations Committee has only met once during the year.
I stepped down from the Nominations Committee as of 27 September 2012.
David Bennett continues to chair the Audit Committee and, despite having had to miss some meetings of the Board and its committees at the start of the financial year due to illness, has been able to attend all scheduled meetings since February 2012.
During his absence, David remained in regular contact with me to provide his This has been a successful year for easyJet on the corporate views on matters arising.
governance front as well as operationally and nancially.
I am satisfied that the members of the Board, in particular the Non easyJets strategy has been further rigorously reviewed and Executive Directors, have sufficient time to undertake their roles at challenged by the Board during the course of the year.
This included Board and Committee level with the Company, so as to be able to a two day session in June 2012 devoted to debating and rening discharge their responsibilities effectively.
There have been questions the strategy.
The information presented by the management team over demands on my own time and I would like to take this in June resulted in a high quality, detailed review, a well focused opportunity to reiterate my continued commitment to give all the debate and a clear strategic vision for the Company to take time necessary to full my duties at easyJet.
The process was a good demonstration of how During the year, a performance review of the Board was effectivelythe management team and the Board are currently undertaken using an independent external facilitator, Lintstock.
Thisprocess involved a detailed questionnaire completed by each of More work has been put into the sharing of that strategic vision and the Directors and the Company Secretary.
This was followed up by other relevant information with our shareholders: easyJet continues Lintstock interviewing each respondent before producing a report to run an active investor relations programme and in the past year tothe whole Board.
The Senior Independent Director led the Non has hosted a number of well attended events including a capital Executive Directors in a review of my own performance which also markets day and a number of site visits aimed at giving our involved feedback from the Executive Directors.
shareholders greater transparency of the Companys operations.
We have reviewed the monthly management information provided The Company actively solicits feedback from investors and the to the Board with the assistance of Board Intelligence, and are Board is kept informed of market perceptions and shareholder developing measures to update and improve the quality of feedback via a formal monthly report to the Board and by regular information provided to the Board and ways in which the Board can verbal briengs.
access information in an easy and secure manner.
These actions to It has obviously been a source of regret to the Board that, in spite drive further improvement in the quality of information presented to ofour outstanding results, our largest shareholder, easyGroup, has the Board form a significant part of a plan compiled in response to pursued a highly public activist campaign which on occasion has the output of this years annual evaluation process.
been targeted at undermining the good governance of the We recognise the importance of diversity for Board effectiveness Company and overriding normal corporate governance protocols.
and have established a new diversity policy.
We remain committed However the 2012 Annual General Meeting process and the EGM to ensuring that appointments are ultimately made on merit against called by easyGroup seeking my removal as Chairman provided the agreed selection criteria.
Further details of our diversity theopportunity to consult with our shareholders and for them to considerations are set out in the Nominations Committee section.
formally record their views, with 96% of the non-family votes supportive for the Board.
At our Annual General Meeting in February 2012, we put all of our Directors up for re-election in compliance with the June 2010 UK In recent months the Board has consulted with ten of our largest Corporate Governance Code the Code and anticipate continuing shareholders on the matter of the optimal methodology for the to put all Directors up for re-election annually.
calculation of ROCE as the Companys principal corporate target, following an independent review carried out by Deloitte.
This was led Shortly before entering the close period at the end of the 2012 by Chris Kennedy with the support of Andy Martin.
Subsequently, financial year, the Board agreed to adopt Non Executive Director Charles Gurassa undertook a consultation with 15 shareholders shareholding guidelines setting out that Non Executive Directors onthe most appropriate remuneration structure for Executive areexpected to hold shares in the Company to the value of at Directors.
This interaction has ensured that the Board has been able least100% of their annual fees.
This level of shareholding is to be to undertake its debate and decision-making process on these achieved by the later of three years from the adoption of the issues with a clear understanding of shareholder sentiment.
guidelines or, for Non Executives joining after the adoption of the guidelines, within three years of their joining date.
The intention of We have refreshed the memberships of some of the implementing these guidelines is to demonstrate the Boards Boardcommittees: commitment to the Company and to align Non Executive Directors Andy Martin has joined the Remuneration Committee, as has interests with those of the shareholders.
Charles Gurassa who has taken over as chairman of the Committee.
