Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance | Report of the Remuneration Committee 65 Report of the Remuneration Committee This Report to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2012 sets out the policies under which the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are remunerated, and incorporates tables of information showing details of the remuneration and share interests of the Directors As required by the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Policy Report Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations, this Report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the Annual General The Remuneration Committee determines and recommends to the Board Meeting AGM.
The Report is intended to be in full compliance with the framework for the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Chief the requirements of the Regulations and the UK Corporate Governance Executives remuneration proposals for the members of the Group Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
Management Committee are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and recommendations are made to the Board.
Consistent with proposals on Executive Directors pay which are being nalised by the Department of Business, Innovation & Skills BIS, The Remuneration Committee also takes note of the remuneration policy this Report has been split into two sections: a Policy Report and an as detailed by the Chief Executive in respect of other levels of management Implementation Report.
The structure and content of this Report in the Company, and makes such recommendations to the Chief Executive remains compliant with the Regulations.
The parts of the Report which as the Remuneration Committee deems appropriate.
The Remuneration have been audited by KPMG Audit Plc have been highlighted as required Committee has regard to the proposed remuneration policy for other by the Regulations.
management and employees across the Group, when determining recommendations on remuneration for the Executive Directors and THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE other senior executives.
Committee Chairman: Paul Drechsler The Remuneration Committee reviewed the risks surrounding the Companys existing remuneration policies in seeking to ensure that an appropriate Membership and balance was maintained in aligning the interests of the Companys senior attendance executives and shareholders.
Paul Drechsler SI Non-Executive Director 3 3 Lars Emilson Non-Executive Director 2 3 The remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board is the responsibility of the Remuneration Committee and the remuneration Terry Twigger Non-Executive Director 3 3 of the Non-Executive Directors is the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
No Director is involved in determining or voting on his own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy as applied to Filtronas senior executives, In determining the policy for the Executive Directors the Remuneration including Executive Directors.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee Committees objective is to ensure that those individuals are provided with during the year consisted wholly of independent Non-Executive Directors.
appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner having regard to the long-term performance The Company Secretary & General Counsel acts as Secretary to the of the Company, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success Remuneration Committee.
The Companys Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director attended the Remuneration Committee meetings, except when their own remuneration was discussed.
The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee, which are reviewed annually, can be found on the Companys website www.
