Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance 51 Governance: Chairmans introduction At Experian, we are committed to sustaining the results achieved in recent years.
context of an effective framework of controls Your Board is also fully aware of the need to and, as Chairman, it is my principal role to effectively manage risks - this topic rightly provide Board leadership that ensures Board comes up in many areas of the Boards effectiveness.
To do this, I strive to create remit.
It is a regular theme of annual an open, energetic, productive and wellBoard evaluations, with Board members informed Boardroom culture and encourage acknowledging the importance of the Board our Board members to actively contribute, playing a leadership role in ensuring the challenge and bring their considerable skills effectiveness of controls and the evaluation and experience to bear on Board discussions.
The UK Corporate Governance Our committee chairmen hold themselves to Code places a strong emphasis on risk Sir John Peace the same high standards.
You will read later management, and that is consistent with Chairman about the key skills and experience of the our approach, both in satisfying ourselves Board members.
that our risk management processes are Our recent success has been underpinned by effective, and in improving our disclosures the clear strategy described at the start of the During the year, I led the annual evaluation so that investors and other stakeholders annual report.
We believe we have the right process of the Board.
Following last years can understand our principal risks and our governance framework in place to support external evaluation, this years process was strategies to manage them.
that strategy, and to run the business in a internally facilitated and no major issues manner which is responsible and consistent were identified.
The evaluation did identify You will have read in my Chairmans with our desire to conduct ourselves honestly, areas of focus for the Board, namely talent statement about the various changes to our transparently and responsibly.
succession management, familiarity with Board composition.
I have no doubt that the business and executive talent and the new appointments will add further to Our well-embedded governance structures information technology and data security.
the calibre and expertise of our Board, and I help us to make what we believe to be the welcome Brian, Deirdre and George.
Last year, we reported to you that we had right decisions to ensure the continued complied with the new UK Corporate Experian has performed well in recent long-term success of the business.
We see Governance Code one year early, because years, but there can be no room for this as a good way to think about governance, the changes it contained reflected things we complacency.
Developing and implementing rather than simply as a compliance exercise were already doing.
This year, we are also a clear strategy, within an appropriate risk for the Board, its committees and the reporting early on the changes to the UK framework, has worked well for us during management team.
I believe that when good Corporate Governance Code announced recent challenging times.
As a Board, we will governance becomes second nature and is by the UK Financial Reporting Council in continue to ensure that good governance is well managed, the Board can focus on the October 2011 relating to diversity, though in place to support the business and to return Groups strategy and on delivering, creating they are not effective until October 2012. enhanced value to our shareholders.
and monitoring a performance culture that These changes are concerned with the drives long-term value creation without implementation of the recommendations on exposing the Company to excessive risk diversity contained in the February 2011 report of value destruction.
in the UK by Lord Davies, Women on Boards.
There has been much focus on governance in recent times but, for us, it has always The main change you will see is the been important to how we operate and will description in the governance statement of continue to be.
Your Board takes governance our new Board policy on diversity, including issues seriously and debates them at the gender.
When I spoke about diversity at our highest levels.
2011 annual general meeting, I confirmed that we always take account of diversity in The UK Corporate Governance Code, under our recruitment, including when we consider which we report on governance, tasks the Board appointments, and will continue to do Board with providing the entrepreneurial so in the future.
leadership necessary to promote the long-term success of the Company.
This leadership must be provided within the
