Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 109 Corporate Governance Overview Atthat time, there was only one provision of the Combined Code that I believe that theFresnillo Group is we did not comply with and that related to my own independence as governed in the best interests not only a Non-executive Chairman.
Since 2008, we have thought carefully about how we apply the principles of good corporate governance ofall of its shareholders but also of its and sought to ensure that the Board and its Committees full all oftheir obligations and commitments.
In doing so, I believe that employees and contractors aswell as the theFresnillo Group is governed in the best interests not only of communities, and indeed the countries, allof its shareholders but also of its employees and contractors aswell as the communities, and indeed the countries, in which inwhich itsoperations are located.
Just over a year ago, we commissioned an external evaluation of theFresnillo Board and I was particularly pleased that this exercise commented on the progress that the Board has made towards becoming an effective working group over the past few years.
TheBoard and each of the Board Committees has had to nd its role and best way of working within the framework that we established in 2008 and I believe that the Board evaluation exercise demonstrated the progress made in this regard.
The context of the Group has been a key factor in determining our approach to Board succession and development.
In the past year we have made two significant appointments the appointment of our first female Non-executive Director and the appointment of a new Chief Executive officer.
Neither of these appointments was made lightly and both have been the result of many months of deliberation involving my Board colleagues, including of course the members of the Nominations Committee.
The decisions were based on merit and the expected contributions of each candidate.
Perhaps the greatest area of tangible progress in the way that the Board works over the past few years has been seen in the development of the Mr Alberto Baillres Groups approach to risk governance and ethical business principles and Chairman of the Board practices particularly those that are relevant to the UK Bribery Act.
The management team have initiated a thorough approach to both ofthese with clear accountability provided by the Audit Committee and ultimately by the Board.
To a lesser extent, but nonetheless still important particularly in the current climate, has been the consolidation of the Group processes for monitoring and approving related party transactions over the past five years.
The role of the Audit Committee has been key in this and we have tried to demonstrate more fully inthis report how we see these processes working.
We should not be complacent and the current safety performance of the Group points to a continued need for the HSECR Committee and the Dear Shareholder, Boardto oversee management efforts tomake the necessary The London Stock Exchange is currently considering how companies improvements in that very important area.
with controlling shareholders such as Fresnillo plc should be regulated.
Each of the Board Committee chairmen has written their own I would like to offer my observations on the corporate governance introductory letters to their committee reports in the following journey that my Board colleagues and I have travelled since 2008. sections which, I trust that you will agree, build on my own Aswe approach the fifth anniversary of the listing of Fresnillo plc observations in this letter.
shares on the London Stock Exchange, it seems an appropriate point at which to review the progress that we have made since that time.
I would conclude by saying that I and my Board colleagues are Asmost companies do at the time of their listing, we produced wholeheartedly supporting the principles of good governance aProspectus which set out the Board and Committee structure within the Fresnillo Group and we look forward to continuing to thatwehad decided to put in place to substantially comply with develop our approach to governance as we engage with new therequirements of the Combined Code as it was then called regulatory requirements and, more generally, as we continue andthat we considered appropriate for effective governance.
toidentify ways to improve what we do.
Yours faithfully Mr Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Board 110 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Corporate Governance Overview continued Related Party Transactions Since Fresnillo plc listed on the London Stock Exchange in 2008, the Board has S ince 2008, the Board has developed procedures fordealing with transactions with related parties sought to understand the spirit as well as aswellas Directors conicts of interest which are the letter ofthe UK Corporate Governance regularlyreviewed.
Code the Code and align its own T he Shared Services Agreement including renewal governance structure accordingly.
ofthe agreement in early 2013 and commercial arrangements with Met-Mex have been nancially appraised by the Audit Committee and authorised This section highlights the principal by the Independent Non-executive Directors in developments of the past few years by accordance with the Relationship Agreement.
which the Companys governance has T he Audit Committee regularly reviews all related been advanced.
Board Nominations Committee Health & Safety I n 2011 and 2012, both the Board and the HSECR Committee have taken steps to understand the causesof incidents and the responses of managementto ensure that they are appropriate.
T he HSECR Committee is overseeing a long-term programme to develop the maturity of the Groups HSECR systems.
Diversity T he Board appointed its first female director during 2012.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 111 Risk Governance Anti-Bribery & Corruption T he Enterprise Risk Management framework has A n extensive review of anti-corruption policies was beenimplemented since 2010. undertaken following the introduction of the UK Bribery Act in 2010.
T he Boards appetite and tolerance of risk is clearly setdown.
The Companys Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, Donations Policy and Code of Conduct were approved The Audit Committee assists the Board in monitoring by the Board and communicated to staff in 2011. risk management in more detail.
Risk governance updates are provided at every meeting of the Audit T raining and procurement procedures were undertaken Committee and Board.
F urther detail can be found within the Our Risk T he Honour Commission was first established Management Framework section on pages 46-55. in2009as the central medium of the Group Whistleblowing Procedures.
The Fresnillo Code of Conduct is available atwww.
com Audit Committee Fresnillo plc Board and Committees Remuneration Committee Succession Key Performance Indicators and Incentives B oard and Senior Management succession plans have Key Performance Indicators KPIs developed for been developed.
The remuneration of senior executives has been I mplementation began in 2012 with new appointments.
morealigned to the long-term strategy by increasing thelevel of variable pay comprising total remuneration.
T he use of KPIs in determining remuneration has beenadapted to focus greater attention on safety performance and the maintenance of reserve and resource levels.
