2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 109 Remuneration report Dear Shareholder As the Chairman of GSKs Remuneration Committee the Committee, I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for 2012, for which we will be seeking your approval at our AGM in May 2013.
On behalf of the Committee, I want to thank my predecessor, Sir Crispin Davis, for his strong leadership of the Committee over the last three and a half years in developing our current executive remuneration structure.
We feel that the current structure strikes a good balance between motivating and retaining our Executives, while at the same time incentivising them to deliver long-term sustainable returns to shareholders.
Executive remuneration The economic and remuneration environments continued to evolve during 2012 and, accordingly, we have made a number of adjustments to certain aspects of our executive remuneration arrangements to ensure they remain appropriate for GSK and in the long-term interests of shareholders.
From 2013 onwards, we have capped the increases in pensionable earnings within our legacy UK dened benefit pension schemes at 2% per annum for all participants, including Executives.
This will limit GSKs overall future liabilities under these schemes.
In response to our undertakings within the Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA with the US Federal Government, we have further strengthened our deferral mechanism and our clawback ability for Executives and senior US staff.
Further details on this are set out on page 116 of our Annual Report.
Given the current external environment, the Committee decided that it would be appropriate to award our Executive Directors salary increases of 2% for 2013.
These increases are in line with average salary increases for other UK and US employees across our business.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the competitiveness of Executives pay.
As a result of this review, the Committee decided that it would be appropriate to increase the maximum reward opportunity for our CFO, Simon Dingemans, under the Performance Share Plan PSP, from 350% to 400% of base salary.
This will position his total remuneration more competitively against his UK peers.
It also reects his increased experience in the role and will bring his PSP opportunity in line with that of his predecessor.
2012 performance Executive annual bonus awards and the values earned from long-term incentive LTI plans for 2012 were lower than 2011.
This reected a very challenging operating environment, particularly in Europe, where the outlook for the Group signicantly worsened during the year.
Despite this, management delivered strong sales performance in Emerging Markets, Consumer Healthcare adjusting for the disposal of the non-core OTC brands and other growth businesses.
In addition, delivery of cost and financial efficiencies helped the Group maintain core EPS at constant exchange rates and return 6.3 billion to shareholders.
The Committee also recognised the continued strong output from R&D, with six key new products led with regulators since January 2012 an unprecedented level of productivity for the Group.
Agenda for 2013 During the course of 2013, the Committee will continue to keep the structure of our remuneration arrangements under review and will prepare for the new executive remuneration reporting requirements being introduced in the UK.
We continue to be committed to regular dialogue with shareholders and will hold our annual meetings with GSKs largest investors later in 2013 to listen to feedback on our remuneration policy.
Tom fide Swaan Remuneration Committee Chairman 5 March 2013
