94 GSK Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance Dear Shareholder As Chairman of the Board, I am committed to GSK seeking to operate to the highest standards of corporate governance.
We believe it is our governance structure that underpins our ability to deliver our strategy to grow a diversied business, deliver more products of value and simplify our operating model.
The following pages outline our approach to governance.
The structure of the Corporate Governance Report has been modied this year and my report begins with an overview which summarises the key highlights from 2012 and future actions.
Thereafter, our disclosures seek to mirror the structure of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code, while several of the statutory disclosures that have appeared within this report in the past have been consolidated into the Shareholder Information section of the Annual Report on pages 239 to 246.
I wish to draw attention to the following key areas which were addressed by the Board during the year.
Board refreshment and diversity Last year, I discussed the Boards review of its composition and the changes initiated as a result.
I am pleased to report that our proactive refreshment of the Board has led to further important changes to its composition.
James Murdoch and Larry Culp stood down from the Board in May and September 2012 respectively and Sir Crispin Davis will not stand for re-election at the AGM in May 2013.
In their places, we are pleased to welcome Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich, who joined the Board on 1 July 2012, and Hans Wijers, who will join the Board on 1 April 2013.
These appointments close two significant gaps in the Boards composition that had been identied during the 2011 external evaluation of the Board: namely global CEO experience and knowledge of, and experience in, emerging markets.
We are also very pleased that Sir Robert Wilson has agreed to stand for re-election by shareholders for one further year before he steps down from the Board at the 2014 AGM.
Given his significant knowledge and experience of GSK, this will provide a period of continuity as the new Non-Executive Directors settle into their roles.
We have also taken the opportunity to refresh the composition of our Board Committees, details of which are set out in my Nominations Committee Report on pages 106 to 107.
Although we view diversity in its widest sense and at Board level we specically look for diversity of geographical background, ethnicity, gender and types of experience, we are pleased that our Board refreshment programme has further increased our gender diversity.
With the recruitment of Lynn and Jing, we have taken the cadre of women on the Board to 33%, which places GSK rmly in the upper quartile of the FTSE 100 in terms of female Board representation.
I am also pleased to report that we continue to have a good representation of women in management positions and we actively encourage programmes such as GSK Womens Leadership Initiative to help increase the pipeline of women at senior levels of the organisation.
Corporate reporting We fully support the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills BIS efforts to improve narrative and remuneration reporting in so far as they seek to raise the bar in reporting and this view was reected in our submissions to the consultations they have conducted on these new proposals.
In addition, we have been fully engaged in representing the companys views on developing these initiatives, including as a participating member on the Financial Lab project, run jointly by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and BIS, to develop example best practice formats of remuneration disclosures.
Corporate Integrity Agreement Finally, the Board, in conjunction with our Audit & Risk Committee and the CET, has been fully involved in overseeing the conclusion of settlements with the US Federal Government on a broad range of long-standing legal cases and the implementation of the Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA signed with the US Department of Health and Human Services.
The requirements of the CIA have been built into our governance structures.
The Board completed its first training programme on the CIA and how it would operate in 2012 and will continue to receive ongoing training each year.
The Board will also be apprised of our compliance with the CIA on a quarterly basis.
Further details on the CIA and its implications for GSK can be found on pages 51 and 214.
I commend the following report to all our shareholders.
Sir Christopher Gent Chairman 5 March 2013
