Overview Business review Governance Financial statements chairman executive directors Non-executive directors company secretary Jane Aikman Norman Blackwell steve Marshall Non-executive director of Halma Non-executive director of Halma Non-executive director of Halma Age 46 Age 59 Age 54 Location UK Location UK Location UK Jane was appointed a non-executive Director Norman was appointed a non-executive Director Steve was appointed a non-executive Director of of Halma in August 2007.
Previously Jane was of Halma in July 2010.
He is a non-executive Halma in July 2010.
He is non-executive Chairman finance director of Infinis Limited, Wilson Bowden director of Lloyds Banking Group Plc, nonof Balfour Beatty plc and Wincanton plc.
She spent three years as an executive Chairman of Interserve Plc and a nona former chairman of Delta plc, Queens Moat internal audit manager with GEC Alsthom and five executive director of Ofcom, the communications Houses plc and Torex Retail plc as well as a years in East Asia with Asia Pulp and Paper Co regulator.
His past business roles have included former non-executive director at Southern Water Limited.
Jane qualified as a Chartered Accountant Senior Independent Director at both Standard Services Limited.
He was Group Chief Executive with Ernst & Young and has a degree in civil Life Plc and SEGRO plc, Director of Group of Railtrack Group plc and prior to that Thorn engineering from Birmingham University.
Development at NatWest Group and Partner at plc, having also served as Finance Director at McKinsey & Company.
He was Chairman of the each company.
His earlier career included a wide independent Centre for Policy Studies from 2000 range of corporate and operational roles at Grand to 2009 where he remains a board member.
Metropolitan plc, Burton Group, Black & Decker Norman was created a Life Peer in 1997 and and BOC Group.
He is a fellow of the Chartered served as Head of the Prime Ministers Policy Unit Institute of Management Accountants.
from 1995 to 1997. stephen Pettit daniela Barone soares carol chesney senior independent director of Halma Non-executive director of Halma company secretary Age 61 Age 41 Age 49 Location UK Location UK Location UK Stephen is the Senior Independent Director.
He Daniela was appointed a non-executive Director Carol was appointed Company Secretary of was appointed a non-executive Director of Halma of Halma in November 2011.
She joined Halma in 1995 as in September 2003.
He is also a non-executive Executive of Impetus Trust.
She is on the advisory Group Finance Manager having spent three years director of National Grid plc and BT Group plc board and a trustee of a number of non-listed, with English China Clays plc.
She qualified as a Equality of Access Board.
Previously Stephen was social sector organisations in the UK and Brazil.
Chartered Accountant with Arthur Andersen and non-executive Chairman of ROK plc, an executive Danielas past business roles have included is a mathematics graduate of Randolph-Macon director with Cable & Wireless PLC and a divisional Head of Institutional Support at Save the Children, Womans College, Virginia.
chief executive with BP PLC.
Stephen has an MSc Assistant Vice President of Private Equity and from London School of Economics and an MBA Venture Capital at BancBoston Capital, Inc. and from INSEAD and is an Economics and Politics roles at Goldman, Sachs & Co. New York and graduate of Cardiff University.
Daniela has an MBA from Harvard Business School and a BSc in Economics from Universidade Estadual fide Campinas UNICAMP, Brazil.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69
