REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Chairmans introduction Good governance is essential for sustainable business success and long-term value creation and an effective board is at the heart of good governance.
At Home Retail Group, the effectiveness of the a non-executive director of Telefonica O2 provision of information to the Board and better Board is underpinned by four important Europe, to the Board.
Before commencing the communication, but also enables Board components: external searches that resulted in these members to have direct involvement in the key high calibre executive directors appointments, careful consideration was given areas of governance and to take full account of non-executive directors who possess the by the Nomination Committee to the attributes, the relationships between the work of these range of skills, knowledge, experience and expertise and capabilities required by the committees.
I am grateful to the members of the independence to participate fully in setting Company.
Ian has strong financial and Board for the commitment and diligence they strategy and assessing risks and to contribute accounting experience, combined with extensive show to their responsibilities.
to the development and long-term success knowledge of the retail sector and property During the year, Lord Davies published his of the Company investment and development.
Cath has review on Women on Boards.
At Home Retail non-executive directors who have a sound extensive marketing and business development Group, diversity including gender diversity is understanding of the business, its culture and experience, with particular emphasis on mobile integral to how we do business.
As at 3 March values and the environment in which applications and ecommerce.
The expertise and 2012, women comprised 14% of our Board, 23% it operates insights of each of these appointees has added of our senior executive positions and 51% of our succession planning to ensure the balance new perspectives to our discussions.
We will continue to support, of skills, knowledge and experience continues details of these directors are set out on page 32. encourage and increase diversity across all parts to be appropriate Our arrangements to ensure that the of our business.
non-executive directors are fully informed about A number of changes have taken place in the the business are kept under review.
Upon Oliver Stocken Board over the last two years.
At our Annual appointment each of our non-executive Chairman General Meeting in 2011, Penny Hughes decided directors undertook a full induction programme, not to seek re-election as a non-executive meeting the management team and visiting director due to the range of her other stores, distribution centres, contact centres and commitments.
On behalf of the Board, offices across the United Kingdom.
Thereafter, I would like to thank Penny for her significant Board members continue to spend time seeing contribution to our business.
the business in operation, hearing the views of We have also welcomed several new colleagues from across the business and directors.
In 2010, Mike Darcey, Chief Operating attending management conferences, and Officer of BSkyB joined the Board.
His widemonitoring developments in both the market ranging experience of media and digital and with our competitors.
We find it particularly technology addresses a key area of focus for helpful for each of our non-executive directors to the development of our multi-channel retail serve on each of the three main Board business.
In 2011, we were very pleased to committees: audit, remuneration and appoint Ian Durant, Chairman of Capital & nomination.
This not only facilitates the Counties Properties, and Cath Keers, Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 33
