ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE LETTER Dear shareholder During my first 16 months as Chairman I have thoroughly enjoyed building on my understanding of IMIs great people and businesses.
For me, IMIs ethical culture and business resilience are among its strongest characteristics and I intend to work with the Board to realise its full potential as a platform for profitable growth.
In 2012 we added three new non-executive directors to strengthen the Board and provide for succession: Carl-Peter Forster, with outstanding leadership experience in the automotive industry: Phil Bentley, with over 12 years at Centrica, first as CFO and since 2007 as Managing Director of British Gas, and Birgit Nrgaard, with a distinguished career in consulting, engineering and broad experience on the Boards of a number of public and private companies in Denmark.
Two of our longer standing non-executives are moving on: Kevin Beeston, who retired in September, and Terry Gateley, who will step down after the annual general meeting in 2013.
I am delighted that Anita Frew has agreed to become senior independent director after Terrys departure and that we have a strong successor in Phil Bentley for Terry as chair of the Audit Committee.
To enhance the effectiveness of the Board, a number of changes in practice were made during the year: including a fresh approach to planning and agendas for meetings, better time allocation and the addition of a further Board meeting in the Autumn with strategy as the core business.
Looking ahead to 2013, the Board has three clear objectives, in addition to supporting the executive management in realising the challenging business plans and performance targets set by the Board.
First, continuing the process for Board review of strategy and embedding the outcomes in the long term business plans s for the Group.
Secondly, strengthening management talent and establishing the resources and organisational structure required to s accelerate our growth ambitions: and Thirdly, continuing to set the right tone and culture through investment in The IMI Way.
s I am keen to engage with shareholders and have met with a number of larger institutional investors since my appointment.
I look forward to meeting individual shareholders again at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Yours faithfully, Roberto Quarta Chairman 6 March 2013 Board reports 40
