Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 58 Governance Chairmans Introduction Strong governance is integral to our business model and this year we have focused on succession planning and enhancing risk management and assurance.
Iain Napier Chairman As Chairman, my primary responsibility is to make The Boards composition has continued to evolve this year sure that Imperial Tobacco is governed and managed in line with the current and future needs of the business and with openness, honesty and transparency and in the dynamic nature of the tobacco operating environment.
the best interests of both our shareholders and our The appointments weve made this year further strengthen wider stakeholders.
the Boards skill set, experiences and diversity.
We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate Corporate Affairs continues to play an increasingly signi cant governance, which we believe are fundamental to discharging role in supporting our sales growth agenda and as a result our stewardship responsibilities.
Matthew Phillips, formerly Company Secretary and Group Corporate and Legal Affairs Director, was appointed Corporate In the section that follows, we set out our governance Affairs Director on 1 June 2012. framework and explain how the sound and effective corporate governance practices we have in place are supporting our Malcolm Wyman and David Haines were appointed strategy of creating long-term, sustainable growth.
Pierre Jungels retired at our Annual General Meeting in February 2012 and, as part of an orderly Board Focus in 2012 succession, Mark Williamson took over as Senior Independent During 2012, as a Board we have overseen and worked with Director and Malcolm Wyman as Audit Committee Chairman.
the management team to ensure the continued successful execution of our strategy.
Pages 8 to 37 of this report contain Diversity for us means appointing the right people for the a detailed performance overview of how weve delivered job and our Board appointments are made purely on merit.
sustainable sales growth whilst effectively managing costs Were committed to appointing the best people, regardless of and cash.
gender, race, religion, age or disability and do not think it is appropriate to set diversity targets for Board appointments.
With strong governance integral to our business model, we have additionally focused on two key areas this year: Risk Management and Assurance succession planning and risk management and assurance.
Successfully managing risk to support growth is fundamental to our long-term sustainability.
Board Succession and Diversity Our Directors have differing international backgrounds combined We have further strengthened our risk management procedures with a wide range of professional, business and sector speci c and brought these together into a new Corporate Assurance expertise.
This ensures a truly balanced Board with the right mix Department replacing our Group Compliance function with of skills and experiences sitting round the Boardroom table to responsibility for driving risk management initiatives throughout fully contribute to and effectively challenge decision making.
More detail on our risk management and assurance processes can be found in the Risk Management section on page 48.
Committed to good governance Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Financials 59 Remuneration Board Priorities 2013 Our remuneration policies are designed to attract, retain and Strong governance continues to be integral to our business motivate our people.
To better align with our strategy we have model, supporting our strategy of creating long-term conducted a review of our remuneration policies and have sustainable value.
Overseeing the successful delivery of our sales growth strategy Board Evaluation remains the Boards priority.
As a Board, we want to continually improve our performance In order to drive the delivery of our strategy we will continue and every year I lead a rigorous evaluation, assisted by an developing ongoing succession plans to ensure an appropriate independent consultant.
I was assisted in the 2012 evaluation skill set and, subject to obtaining shareholder approval, will by EquityCommunications Ltd. oversee the introduction of our revised remuneration policy.
Both our 2011 and 2012 evaluations concluded that there is an In addition we will also continue to embed our enhanced open and collaborative Board culture with a good level of trust risk management and assurance processes throughout and respect and universal Board alignment behind our key the business.
The two main areas identi ed for review are our ongoing succession plans for Directors approaching retirement and ensuring our improved risk and assurance processes are further integrated into the business.
You can read more on our objectives on page 64 of this report.
Iain Napier Chairman Management and Corporate Structure Board Chairman and Remuneration Nominations Audit Non-Executive Committee p77 Committee p66 Committee p68 Directors Executive Directors Disclosure Committee p51 Operating Executive p63 Group functions, regions, markets and factories Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
