Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 38 Governance Chairmans overview Robert Swannell If we continue to do the right thing, the right way, with integrity The Board is the guardian of and with the right checks and balances, these will be protected for the future.
the M&S brand, its reputation Our governance is focused not only on the boardroom and stakeholder relationships.
but also right across the business.
We believe that good governance ultimately produces a better business and If we continue to do the right supports long-term performance.
It is not just what we do, thing, the right way, with but how we do it.
As a Board we regularly discuss and review: integrity and with the right our strategy, brand and reputation and how we checks and balances, these can best achieve our goal to become an international multi-channel retailer: will be protected for the future.
our Code of Ethics and Behaviours: our guide to our values, behaviours and ways of working: Last year was the start of a new chapter in the development our colleagues, ensuring they feel valued, motivated of the Board and our governance.
We have made progress and rewarded and how we can ensure their future against the plan we set ourselves, driving leadership, development and succession: collaboration and a culture of continuous improvement in our customers, suppliers and local communities, standards and performance across the business.
ensuring we treat them fairly and with respect: our shareholders, how we can communicate openly and We have made a number of changes to the Board and its be transparent with them in the way we manage the Committees during the year, welcoming three new members business: and to the team.
Plan A, our ambitious plan to become the worlds I believe that we have a truly engaged and committed most sustainable retailer.
I am pleased with the robust and challenging debate held across a wide range of issues and the support shown UK Corporate Governance Code to the Executive team as it drives our strategy to become an The 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code is the standard international multi-channel retailer.
against which we were required to measure ourselves in It is important that we continue to drive our effectiveness 2011 12.
We are pleased to confirm that we complied with as a team and ensure we are consistent in our commercial the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 for the period decisions and in our values and principles.
Integrity in our under review with the exception that, for a short period of six decision-making is key to maintaining the trust of our weeks, the number of independent non-executive directors stakeholders.
on the Board, excluding the Chairman, dropped below half as required by the Code.
This was due to a timing difference What we do today, the level of debate and behaviour we between the retirement of Louise Patten in July and Vindi exhibit as a Board is critical to our success.
We recognise Banga joining the Board in September.
Given that the Board that we may not always get things right: where that is the was not scheduled to and did not meet during this short case we will learn from our mistakes.
We should be as period, we feel our governance was not impacted.
open as we can be to new ways of doing things better as well as drawing from our past decisions, experiences, The required regulatory and governance assurances are standards and processes and use them to inform and provided throughout this report.
However, again we have support our future.
sought to avoid a box-ticking approach.
Using the key themes of the Code, we focus on how governance supports and As an extraordinary testament to our rich history and protects the M&S business in a practical way.
You will nd our experience, we recently moved the M&S Company Archive approach to Leadership on pages 42 and 43, Effectiveness on to a purpose built new home in the heart of the University 44, Accountability on 45 to 48, Engagement and Relations with of Leeds.
This allows us to make our extensive collection, Shareholders on 49 and 50, the Governance of our Pension gathered over 128 years, accessible for the first time to a Scheme on page 50 and Remuneration on pages 54 to 67. much wider community.
To nd out more visit Our Governance Framework is constantly reviewed and sets marksintime.
com out the roles, accountabilities and expectations for our The Board has taken an active interest in the Archives directors and our structures.
It also details a schedule of development, recognising that our history and decisions matters reserved for the Boards decision, detailing key have guided behaviours, contributed to the M&S culture aspects of the Companys affairs that the Board does not and enabled the development of the M&S brand.
delegate including, amongst other things, approval of acquisitions and disposals, business plans and material We, as a Board, are the current guardians of this iconic expenditure.
The framework can be viewed, along with the full and valuable brand, its reputation and stakeholder account of how we have complied with the UK Corporate relationships.
e n K i Y t H n V a t s n ` Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information [ o Y L C W V m Y e 7 l C h c G A 0 o U e ] o m r Y M V e d r S [ a v a ] t U L l n G a c L L t L t n a L e o [ l i i T T l l r [ d D Z P o d r m L L P m o T B a U N U u n J H [ H L T u y c e U Z A m r. V a M a H Z. p a Y v m 4 V e o M e n U n l l e W C c o Z r V r L e e J ] W K Z P Y d L U H M n L V V a a : Z r l l c Y Z o L B Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 39 business and technology.
Laura, Vindi and Miranda each had Our Committees and Committee chairmen extensive induction programmes on joining the Board.
Vindi and Miranda are also now both members of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
In February 2012, our Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, Sir David Michels stepped down from the Board following the end of his second three-year term.
The Board appointed Jan du Plessis as Senior Independent Director on 1 March 2012 to succeed David.
Jan has served on the Board since November 2008.
In addition to ensuring appropriate succession of our nonGroup Board Robert Swannell executive directors, the Nomination Committee has remained focused on the succession and development of the Executive team, as well as ensuring it has greater insight into our future talent pool.
The Committees activities are outlined on page 51.
Supporting this development of our leadership within the business, the Remuneration Committee has overseen the implementation of the new senior executive framework and ensured robust and fair debate around the setting and disclosure of objectives and targets.
These are highlighted in greater detail on page 57.
The Committee has also participated in the wider UK remuneration debate, taking an active role in a number of formal consultations and engaging Diversity with major shareholders and investor representative bodies.
This year diversity has been a key theme for governance Monitoring risk generally.
We made further progress in shaping our Board for Monitoring the level of risk, and ensuring appropriate the future, ensuring that diversity, in its broadest denition, is governance to support this remains a key objective, involving at its heart.
We discussed diversity and what this means for the support of the Audit Committee.
We have an ambitious our business, our customers and stakeholders.
Our policy on strategy and it is important that the scope of the audit plan page 51 summarises our views and sets out our ambitions.
captures the full range of our business initiatives, whilst ensuring From a practical perspective, our focus on diversity assurance on core practices and activities.
The outputs of the meant we looked hard at our mix of skills and experience.
Committee are described in greater detail on page 52.
Our new appointments have sought to complement these Our Audit Committee has helped support the Boards activities.
as well as ensuring a better balance of gender and It is important that we continue to drive the level of challenge and international background as we become a truly international debate around risk as well as improve our understanding multi-channel retailer.
of risk appetite and tolerance as our business evolves.
Much focus of the diversity debate has concentrated on Overall, I am pleased with the progress we have made this year female director appointments.
Our female directors today across the governance agenda, some of which is highlighted represent around 30% of the Board.
Below Board level, on the following pages.
However, we will continue to be open women account for 35% of senior management.
A number in any way we can to improve our governance and board of appointments across the broader senior management team performance.
Where things go wrong we will say so and learn.
have also enabled us to benefit from greater international experience, which is important as we grow our international presence.
Our Board diversity mix is shown overleaf along with more detailed biographies and a snapshot of the Boards experience.
Appointments and succession In July 2011, we announced the appointment of Vindi Banga Robert Swannell as a non-executive director.
Vindi joined the Board in Chairman September and brings a wealth of global business experience along with extensive consumer and brand knowledge.
In July, To see our full governance Laura Wade-Gery joined the Board as Executive Director framework go to Multi-channel E-commerce, following the announcement marksandspencer.
com thecompany and follow the link.
of her appointment in February 2011.
In October 2011, we Those with a QR Reader app announced the appointment of Miranda Curtis as a noncan use the link to the right.
