25 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Business review Risks and uncertainties Meggitt operates globally, principally in the aerospace and approvals and these are regularly reviewed by and defence markets.
There are a number of potential the relevant authorities.
risks and uncertainties which could have a material A number of legal liability risks, such as to employees, impact on the groups long term performance and third parties and properties, are insured subject to cause actual results to differ materially from expected policy limits and conditions.
However, because of and historic performance.
Meggitt has a risk the long history of some of the companies within the management programme to identify risks, assess group, there is a risk of liability claims which may their impact and likely occurrence and prepare not be fully covered by insurance.
mitigation plans to manage those risks.
We seek to mitigate exposure to all forms of risk and, where Meggitt is subject to litigation from time to time in possible and cost-effective, transfer risk to insurers.
the ordinary course of business and makes provision for any expected cost to the group.
However, there is External risks a risk that successful claims or costs may exceed the provisions made.
In particular, a number of claims are Political and natural catastrophe received each year by subsidiary companies relating Meggitt operates mainly in North America and Europe to the sale of asbestos products by businesses which and is exposed to political risk, possible terrorist have been either sold or discontinued.
The total action and natural catastrophe.
Any political and amount concerned in any year is not material and terrorist risks can have both an adverse and bene cial many claims are covered fully or partly by existing effect on the groups aerospace and defence revenue insurance.
There is a provision for claims which and we try to retain a balance between the two market cannot be recovered from insurers.
sectors to minimise the overall effect.
As a number of our businesses are based in Southern California, The group is subject to the export control regulations there is exposure to the risk of earthquake damage.
of the countries in which it operates.
Those of the Where cost-effective, such risks are mitigated, USA are particularly complex and detailed and there through physical measures and insurance.
is a system of voluntary disclosure to the relevant authorities to deal with the occasional breach.
Competitors Any reported breach, as well as those which are Meggitt operates in highly competitive markets and not reported, may be investigated and, depending is exposed to the risk of customer concentration upon its seriousness, may result in criminal, civil particularly in the aerospace industry.
We seek to or administrative penalties or, as in most cases, protect our position by developing proprietary products no further action being taken.
The group has in markets which have a high barrier to entry and implemented a best practice export compliance through strong, long-term relationships with our programme to minimise the risk of violating the export customers.
The diversity of our products and regulations of all the countries in which it operates.
operations also reduces the possible effect of action by any single competitor or customer.
Environmental The groups business operations and facilities are Legal and regulatory subject to laws and regulations that govern the Meggitt is subject to the laws and regulations of the discharge of pollutants and hazardous substances geographic locations in which it operates.
Failure as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such to comply with these could result in criminal, civil materials and other environmental matters.
In the or administrative penalties.
Further, the aerospace USA, the group has an obligation to remediate certain industry is highly regulated and many of the groups sites which were once occupied by businesses owned products are required to be certi ed or accepted by Whittaker Corporation and which were sold or by various regulatory authorities including the US discontinued before Meggitts acquisition of Whittaker Federal Aviation Administration, similar agencies in 1999.
Occasionally, claims are also received from in other countries and individual original equipment third parties in relation to damage caused by the manufacturers.
Systems and processes are in place contamination at or emanating from these sites.
to ensure compliance with the relevant regulations 26 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Risks and uncertainties continued The group has various insurance policies available to it is not over-reliant on a single customer.
Relationships to respond to these remediation obligations and third with bankers are closely monitored by the centralised party claims.
Provision is made in the accounts for the treasury function.
Insurance risk is minimised by forecast cost of any remediation and settlement of choosing insurers of good standing.
third party claims and for the contribution expected to Pension funding be recovered from insurers.
Environmental insurance Details of the group pension schemes are shown in is purchased for all new sites acquired by the group.
note 34 to the accounts and a summary of funding Equipment fault is shown in the financial review.
We are exposed Equipment manufactured by Meggitt generally to various funding risks such as poor investment operates in extreme environments and manufacturing performance and improved mortality of members.
processes are in place to ensure quality and reliability standards conform to the stringent requirements Internal risks of the markets we operate in.
These processes Manufacturing mitigate the risk of failure of any of our products The groups manufacturing facilities could be in its operating environment.
Liability insurance is disrupted for reasons beyond our control such as re, taken out to protect the group from any future product industrial disputes or other issues.
are in place for all locations so that any disruption Fixed price contracts is minimised and business continuity is achieved as The group has entered into some multi-year, quickly as possible.
In addition, business interruption xed price contracts with some OE manufacturing insurance is in place to minimise the cost of disruption customers and is exposed to the upside and downside to the group.
resulting from any changes in the cost of making Intellectual property these products.
Risk is minimised wherever possible Meggitt, where possible, seeks to protect its and in most cases estimates of cost are based on proprietary position through patents and long term reliable historic data.
In some cases, new Foreign exchange technology risk exists when contracts are undertaken As a multinational group with signi cant revenue for technology which has not been nally developed overseas we are exposed to currency risk: transaction and we are exposed to cost overruns and other risk relating to revenues made in currencies other than uncertainties.
where the goods are manufactured: and translation Acquisitions risk relating to the translation of the results of non-UK Meggitt has grown by acquisition and there are risks companies into sterling values.
The management of involved in acquiring any new business.
Risks are these risks is discussed in more detail in the Financial mitigated by due diligence, business integration Review section of this report but, generally, transaction processes and, where practicable, by representations, risk is hedged in the short term but remains exposed warranties and indemnities supplied by the vendors.
to the long term risk of exchange rate uctuations.
Some mitigation is achieved by sourcing goods, Internal controls services and borrowings in currencies which match Meggitt operates internal controls as detailed in the exposure.
the Corporate Governance section of this report.
Failures in these controls might have a material Credit risk impact on the group.
The groups internal audit Credit risks exist in relation to customers, banks and department visits operating companies to an insurers.
Established credit control procedures are agreed plan, reports to the Audit Committee on in place to manage customer risk where exposure to any fide ciencies uncovered and follows up agreed known risks e. g. US airlines are carefully controlled action plans to remedy fide ciencies.
Meggitt has a wide customer base and
