About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review Risks and uncertainties | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary Mitchells & Butlers is contractually bound to use certain suppliers.
Risks and uncertainties As part of its acquisition of the 550 former Allied Domecq sites in This section highlights some of the particular risks which affect the 1999, Mitchells & Butlers is required to purchase a fixed minimum Group but it is not intended to be an extensive analysis of all risks volume of Carlsberg-Tetley products until 12 December 2007 which which may arise in the ordinary course of business or otherwise.
in 2006, represented 8% by value of Mitchells & Butlers alcoholic Some risks may be unknown to the Group and other risks, currently drink purchases.
Mitchells & Butlers is also tied for approximately regarded as immaterial, could turn out to be material.
half of its soft drinks volume to Britvic plc until February 2008.
If Mitchells & Butlers is unable to satisfy its minimum purchase There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which volume obligations to a material extent under the Carlsberg-Tetley could have a material impact on Mitchells & Butlers long-term and Britvic agreements, it is obliged to pay liquidated damages.
performance and achievement of its strategy.
These risks and uncertainties arise as a result of operational, regulatory, financial Mitchells & Butlers is a large commercial user of gas and electricity or market driven factors.
Mitchells & Butlers takes a proactive and is therefore subject to fluctuations in utility costs for example, approach to managing risk with a dedicated Risk and Compliance both gas and electricity costs have risen sharply during FY2006.
team who report through the HR and Legal Director to the In order to reduce exposure to short-term fluctuations in energy Executive Committee and the Board.
Although Mitchells & Butlers prices, Mitchells & Butlers has a rolling programme of forward has been successful in mitigating these risks in the past, there is purchases for three, six, nine and 12 months in the future.
An energy no guarantee that it can continue to do so.
awareness team has been established to review energy usage and is working with the business to continue to find ways to promote further Operational Factors efficiencies in energy consumption.
Brands, formats and offerings Market Driven Factors Mitchells & Butlers pubs and pub restaurants compete for consumers with a wide variety of other branded and non-branded pubs and Consumer expenditure restaurants as well as off-licences, supermarkets and takeaways.
Mitchells & Butlers revenues are linked to the economic climate The large supermarket groups, in particular, are often selling alcohol in the United Kingdom and to a much lesser extent in Germany.
and especially canned beer, at greatly discounted prices as an element Changes in consumer expenditure may arise as a result of the of their marketing strategy.
In 1980, 88% of beer in the UK was sold general economic situation or more localised specific factors such through pubs, clubs and restaurants the on-trade.
This percentage as decreased activity in the financial markets or from reduced tourist has been declining steadily, such that by 2006, 60% of beer was sold visits as a result of ongoing terrorist activity throughout the world and through the on-trade with the supermarkets and off-licence share in London.
Consumer expenditure in pubs may also vary through the off-trade having increased to 40%.
consumer perceptions and public attitudes to social factors such as underage drinking, adverse health consequences associated with Changes in consumer tastes in both food and drink, for example the the misuse of alcohol, including alcoholism or to localised national heightened awareness of healthy eating and demographic trends or international scares as a result of food contamination.
over time may affect the appeal of Mitchells & Butlers pubs and pub restaurants to consumers, especially if Mitchells & Butlers does not Mitchells & Butlers over 2,000 individual businesses and its range anticipate, identify and respond by evolving its brands, formats and of brands and formats targeting different income groups mitigate offerings adequately and sufficiently promptly to reflect changes this risk.
The range of brands and formats also provides the flexibility in consumer requirements and preferences, particularly the growth to respond to changes in consumer behaviour through either the in the eating-out market.
development of the offer or the substitution of an alternative operating format or brand at a particular location.
Mitchells & Butlers has a Sales and Marketing Executive for both the Pubs & Bars and Restaurants divisions, chaired by the Divisional Seasonality Managing Director, that actively monitor consumer trends and the Customer visits to Mitchells & Butlers pubs and pub restaurants relevance of Mitchells & Butlers brands, formats and offerings to are generally higher during holiday periods, such as Christmas and them.
New operating formats and the evolution of existing offers are New Year, and over bank holidays.
Frequenting of pubs and pub trialled every year as part of this programme.
A recent example has restaurants is slightly lower during the winter months than in the been the development of a Premium Country Dining offer, which summer.
Visits to pubs and pub-restaurants are also affected by the targets more affluent consumers in commuter belts.
13 further weather, with warm sunny weather being particularly advantageous conversions have been completed this year, taking the format to a for pubs and pub restaurants with gardens.
Mitchells & Butlers total of 30 pubs generating an incremental pre-tax return of 27%.
marketing strategies are set to address the impact of seasonality, wherever possible, to capture demand in busy periods and to Supplier dynamics encourage customers to visit in quieter periods.
Mitchells & Butlers relative size in the pub and pub restaurant sector has allowed it to renegotiate supplier contracts successfully in Regulatory Factors the past year and its experienced purchasing team has investigated Mitchells & Butlers operates in a heavily regulated sector and changes alternative supply arrangements including the introduction of own label in regulation can have a significant impact upon Mitchells & Butlers wines.
In addition, as the Groups tied arrangements have reduced, business.
Some examples of the regulatory changes which could affect Mitchells & Butlers has taken advantage of the increasing freedom Mitchells & Butlers include: to improve the choice available to customers at favourable terms.
16 Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 | Smoking ban and staff to ensure compliance with licensing laws and to operate A full ban on smoking in pubs came into force in Scotland on its pubs in a responsible manner.
Approximately 4% of Mitchells & Butlers pubs are in Scotland with a greater proportion of large town centre pubs and Changes in taxation fewer local residential pubs than the Mitchells & Butlers pub estate Mitchells & Butlers activities are affected by a number of tax-related in England and Wales.
Trading in Scotland in the period immediately matters.
These include duty on alcoholic beverages, property rates, after the ban was strong as new users sampled the smoke-free VAT, other business taxes and the availability of duty harmonisation atmosphere.
Since then, sales have continued to grow but at a to travellers between EU countries.
Our experience so far suggests that large pubs, with the capability to serve high volumes of good food at attractive prices, will Mitchells & Butlers ensures it takes appropriate action to minimise benefit from a ban on smoking.
However, smaller pubs, with limited the risks from regulation through a number of means including: food capacity and a bias towards beer sales and machine income, are likely to suffer.
Active participation with industry organisations, such as the British Beer & Pub Association and the British Hospitality Association, Although the profile of the Mitchells & Butlers estate in Scotland is ensuring that effective lobbying is carried out: different to England and Wales, our experience there has generated some good learning which can be applied to the ban on smoking The operation of a Risk Management Forum to ensure that the in Wales which will come into force on 2 April 2007 and the ban in impact of any new legislation is considered and that action plans England, for which a date has yet to be confirmed, but which is widely are put in place to address any required changes in advance anticipated to be introduced in the summer of 2007. of any implementation date: National Minimum Wage Continual consideration of operating procedures to ensure any The Government has increased the minimum wage materially above cost increases arising from such changes can be mitigated through the rate of inflation and actual growth in labour productivity over the productivity increases.
It currently stands at 5.35 per hour having been increased by 30p for adults in October 2006.
Following this increase, Financial Factors the Low Pay Commission has recommended that any further increase Pension funding in the National Minimum Wage should remain in line with general Mitchells & Butlers participates in defined benefit pension schemes wage inflation, although to date this recommendation has not been which give rise to various funding risks.
The main risk is the variability endorsed by the Government.
Mitchells & Butlers has successfully of the amount of contributions required to be paid to the schemes by mitigated increases in the National Minimum Wage through Mitchells & Butlers in order to account for past service benefit deficits productivity improvements.
These have allowed it to maintain the and future service benefit accruals.
These in turn are impacted ratio of employment costs at 24% of sales.
at any point in time by changes in life expectancy assumptions, the performance of the stock market and bond yields.
Licensing New licensing laws became fully effective in November 2005.
Recent legislation means that it may be appropriate to approach the Licensing matters were taken away from the Magistrates Courts and Pensions Regulator for pre-clearance of agreements reached with the transferred to local authorities and a new requirement was introduced Pension Trustees at the time of significant corporate transactions.
Such for operators of licensed premises to hold both a premises licence clearance may include a requirement to increase the level of funding and a personal licence.
Greater flexibility of opening hours was over a reduced timescale.
introduced which allows pub operators to apply to the local authority for permission to change opening hours, subject to objections from Mitchells & Butlers pension risks have been mitigated by the closure local residents, the police and other relevant agencies.
of the defined benefit schemes to new entrants during 2002.
As an alternative, a competitive defined contribution pension scheme is These groups also now have a right to ask the local authority now available to eligible new employees.
Mitchells & Butlers also for the premises licence to be reviewed at any time where they maintains a close dialogue with the pensions schemes Trustees believe that any of the Governments licensing objectives are being and two of the Trustees are appointed by the Company.
As a result of such review, the local authority has of the funding deficits in the schemes, the Company has made the power to attach further conditions to the licence, reduce trading additional contributions of 116.5m over and above the regular hours, call for a change in the pub management or ultimately service contributions since listing in 2003 in order to proactively suspend or revoke the licence.
The Government is also introducing reduce the deficit.
The Company has also committed to make further further legislation in early 2007 that will, inter alia, make the additional contributions of 40m during FY2007 and 20m during penalties for non-observance of certain aspects of licensing law FY2008.
A full actuarial valuation of the schemes will be conducted more severe e. g. if a premises is caught serving underage drinkers during FY2007.
three times in three months, it will be fined and may have its premises licence suspended.
Mitchells & Butlers has been successful in the vast majority of initial applications to extend previous opening hours typically for an additional hour or two later in the week and at the weekend.
The Company also invests heavily in the training of its managers Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 Report 17 |
