Business review The Morgan Crucible Company plc 27 Business review cont.
Risk management We have continued to operate a consistent Internal risk factors include: and systematic risk management process reputation: which follows the revised Turnbull guidance.
pensions: We seek to ensure that: competition: a all significant risks to Morgan Crucible have been identified and prioritised: insurance: b systems of control are in place to manage environmental health and safety: the risks: and c the effectiveness of these controls has been litigation: measured and monitored.
controls failure: and The Board reviews a formal risk report which business continuity.
covers the following issues: As described above, we seek to manage i significant risks to the Group which have and mitigate risk and use insurance where been reviewed by the Executive Committee: this is cost effective.
Our risk management ii the adequacy of the risk management processes also help to identify business and process: performance opportunities.
iii assurances that internal controls are in place to manage the risks: and External risk factors iv confirmation that the process Global political and economic conditions is ongoing.
Our worldwide operations include activities in We have operations in 31 countries worldwide a number of developing countries.
Whilst these and we compete in numerous product and regions offer growth opportunities, business service markets.
We face various risk factors, activities in these areas expose us to economic, both internal and external, which could have a political and business risks.
The Group is subject material impact on long-term performance.
to varying legal and regulatory regimes in External risk factors include: these areas, including those covering taxation, environmental and other matters.
Political risks global political and economic conditions: include the imposition of trade barriers, technology changes: expropriation of assets, changes in regulations, wage controls and restrictions on the export foreign exchange movements: of currency and the volatility of prices, taxes raw materials and energy: and and currencies.
The diverse nature of our products and services and the customers and markets served help to mitigate the impact of any individual exposure to economic conditions.
However, some 36% of our revenues are to customers in the USA and thus we are particularly affected by economic conditions in that region.
28 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Risk management Technology changes These risks are mitigated through: We develop and launch new technologies and our focus on quality, with over 90% of our products.
Such development projects carry production capacity now accredited to business risks, including reputational risk, abortive ISO 9001: expenditure and potential customer claims our corporate responsibility programme, which may have a material impact on the including our Statement of Core Values: Group.
Export control regulations may limit our ability to transfer or share technology between our Ethics Policy and Internal Compliance our sites in different countries.
Reporting Helpline: and Foreign exchange movements our systems of internal control and risk management.
We operate on a global basis, with a significant proportion of our profits earned outside of the Pensions UK.
We have significant investments around the We operate a number of defined benefit world, with the greatest proportion being in the pension plans with the largest of these being USA.
As such we are subject to translation risk in the UK and the USA.
due to exchange rate movements between world currencies which could adversely or The pension plans are exposed to the risk positively affect the Groups results.
The Group of changes in interest rates, the value and has entered into certain hedging arrangements performance of investments, inflation and the to help mitigate the impact of currency increasing longevity of members.
As stated fluctuations and the Groups relevant treasury at the time of the disposal of the Magnetics policies are summarised in the Financial review Division, the Group has now made a further on page 26. contribution to the UK schemes which currently now show a small surplus.
We will continue to Raw materials and energy keep funding levels under review.
Our products use a range of raw materials The Groups main US defined benefit pension and our operations require significant amounts scheme is overseen by The Pension Benefit of energy.
Volatility and increases in prices Guaranty Corporation which has powers to or scarcity of supply could have a material apply to court to terminate the scheme if it impact on our business.
Our raw materials are does not meet certain minimum solvency tests.
sourced on the world market and in general Were there ever to be a termination, the Group we have access to multiple sources of supply.
would be required to meet the full cost of the Where specific material properties require under-funded liabilities under the US scheme.
particular sources of raw materials to be used, the Group has processes in hand to bridge any Competition short-term interruption of supply and where Given that we operate in highly competitive possible has identified alternative sources markets, significant product innovations, of supply.
technical advances or increased price Legislation and regulation competition could all affect the Group.
In order to help ensure we remain competitive, We are subject to varying laws and regulations we work to minimise our cost base and invest around the world.
Changes in these could affect in research and development.
Following the events now referred to as 9 11, various governments, notably Insurance the USA, have significantly increased their export Certain risks are transferred to insurers.
Considerable effort has been Specialist third-party audits and internal expended in the USA and Europe to ensure that inspections, coupled with follow-up of any we are in compliance with these regulations.
corrective actions, help to ensure that major Internal risk factors insurable risks are adequately managed.
The growth in our aviation and medical products Reputation businesses has meant that this continues to be Our reputation with all stakeholders is an area of particular focus to ensure that our fundamental to the success of the Group.
products are consistently of the highest quality Failure to meet expectations in terms of the and that contractual arrangements are clear.
products and services we provide, the way that Environmental health and safety we do business or in our financial performance, could have a material effect on the Group.
Our operations involve the normal environmental and health and safety risks associated with any manufacturing operation such as spillage, noise, air and soil pollution and so forth.
Business review: Risk management The Morgan Crucible Company plc 29 Our businesses are subject to numerous laws and Actions regulations relating to health, safety and the During 2006 our internal audit function has environment around the world.
Although we continued to use external professional auditors believe that our operations are in compliance to supplement internal resources in areas of the with current regulation, violations of such laws Groups operations where language, culture and regulations can lead to fines and penalties.
and location have made this a sensible option.
Specialist third-party and internal auditors make Risk-based internal audits have focused on regular site visits to ensure compliance with ensuring that internal control systems are local regulations.
An Environmental, Health functioning correctly and are adequate for the and Safety Good Management Practices risks in the business.
Such audits are therefore Manual has been issued to sites worldwide.
not limited to financial matters but also cover Environmental, Health and Safety Managers operational and regulatory compliance matters.
within each Division are tasked with ensuring The Director of Operational Risk has worked with that the practices outlined in the Manual the Divisional Chief Executives and Divisional are embedded in the manufacturing sites.
Controllers to identify and implement best practice across all our sites.
The concepts of Litigation risk assessment and risk management continue From time to time and in the normal course to be embedded throughout our various of business, we are subject to certain litigation, activities, and managers at all levels of the in particular in the USA.
Provision for the organisation are becoming more adept at expected costs and liabilities are set out in using these approaches.
If the liabilities arising The Corporate Ethics Policy which was agreed were significantly to exceed the amounts by the Board at the end of 2005 is available to provided for, our financial position could be every Morgan Crucible employee worldwide.
This lays a foundation for the determination of Controls failure appropriate conduct globally.
Our internal controls are designed not only to protect We operate internal controls as described in the the Companys assets but also to ensure corporate governance report on pages 40 to 44. compliance with our Ethics Policy.
In order to With operations in 31 different countries assist with this, we have set up a Compliance worldwide there has been a need to pay Helpline to enable any employee to seek particular attention to the auditing of internal advice or to report non-compliance.
The Ethics controls in some of the smaller sites which, given Policy and Compliance Helpline were featured their size, tend to have less segregation of duties.
in the latest edition of the Companys As we continue to expand our manufacturing internal magazine, 360, which is published footprint in lower-cost areas there is an increasing in eight languages and distributed to all proportion of Group revenues and profits coming employees worldwide.
from countries that have different cultural and business practice standards from our traditional During 2006 a Risk Management Committee was locations.
Our risk-based internal audit formed comprising of the Chief Financial Officer, programme addresses this situation and develops the Director of Operational Risk and the risk management strategies.
This committee reviews the full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a Business continuity Group, ensures that there are adequate systems Business continuity plans are either fully in place and evaluates their effectiveness.
developed or in the course of development Where necessary, the Risk Management at all our sites.
These plans describe how a Committee will initiate action to improve the site should respond to various risks and how systems and ensure compliance.
continuity of supply to our customers would be We believe that progression from compliance maintained.
In some cases there are possibilities to integrated risk management, through of short-term supply from an alternative site.
improved internal controls, is an essential step The measures described, coupled with in the continuous improvement of our business appropriate insurance, help mitigate the processes for the benefit of all stakeholders.
A full review of these plans will be made during 2007.
