846725 pp006 pp008 24 2 07 10:13 am Page 6 Risk factors The following describes some of the risks that could affect Rio Tinto.
asset carrying values, deferred stripping calculations and provisions for There may be additional risks unknown to Rio Tinto and other risks, close down, restoration and environmental clean up costs.
Further currently believed to be immaterial, could turn out to be material.
These discussion can be found under Ore reserve estimates on page 47. risks, whether they materialise individually or simultaneously, could significantly affect the Groups business and financial results.
They should Political and community also be considered in connection with any forward looking statements in The Group has operations in jurisdictions having varying degrees of this document and the cautionary statement on the following page.
Political instability can result in civil unrest, expropriation, nationalisation, renegotiation or nullification of Economic conditions existing agreements, mining leases and permits, changes in laws, Commodity prices, and demand for the Groups products, are taxation policies or currency restrictions.
Commercial instability caused influenced strongly by world economic growth, particularly that in the by bribery and corruption in their various guises can lead to similar US and Asia.
The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at consequences.
Any of these can have a material adverse effect on the prevailing market prices.
Commodity prices can fluctuate widely and profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of an operation.
could have a material and adverse impact on the Groups asset values, Some of the Groups current and potential operations are located in revenues, earnings and cash flows.
or near communities that may now, or in the future, regard such an The strong underlying economic conditions and commodity prices operation as having a detrimental effect on their economic and social have led to a rapid growth in demand for technical skills in mining, circumstances.
Should this occur, it may have a material adverse impact metallurgy and geological sciences, and for materials and supplies on the profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of an operation.
In related to the mining industry, causing skills and materials shortages.
addition, such an event may adversely affect the Groups ability to enter The retention of skilled employees, the recruitment of new staff and the into new operations in the country.
purchasing of materials and supplies may lead to increased costs, interruptions to existing operations and to delays in new projects.
Technology Further discussion can be found on page 10, Business environment The Group has invested in and implemented information system and and markets, and on page 38, commodity prices.
Several technical aspects of these initiatives are still unproven and the eventual operational outcome or viability cannot be Exchange rates assessed with certainty.
Accordingly, the costs and benefits from these The Groups asset values, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a initiatives and the consequent effects on the Groups future earnings and wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Groups financial results may vary widely from present expectations.
sales and areas of operation.
The majority of the Groups sales are denominated in US dollars.
The Australian and US dollars are the most Land and resource tenure important currencies influencing costs.
The relative value of currencies The Group operates in several countries where title to land and rights in can fluctuate widely and could have a material and adverse impact on respect of land and resources including indigenous title may be unclear the Groups asset values, costs, earnings and cash flows.
Further and may lead to disputes over resource development.
Such disputes discussion can be found under, Exchange rates, reporting currencies could disrupt relevant mining projects and or impede the Groups ability and currency exposure on page 36. to develop new mining properties.
Acquisitions Health, safety and environment The Group has grown partly through the acquisition of other businesses.
Rio Tinto operates in an industry that is subject to numerous health, Business combinations commonly entail a number of risks and Rio Tinto safety and environmental laws and regulations as well as community cannot be sure that management will be able effectively to integrate expectations.
Evolving regulatory standards and expectations can result businesses acquired or generate the cost savings and synergies in increased litigation and or increased costs all of which can have a anticipated.
Failure to do so could have a material and adverse impact material and adverse effect on earnings and cash flows.
on the Groups costs, earnings and cash flows.
Furthermore, the Group may, under the terms of the acquisition, be liable for the past acts or Mining operations omissions of the acquired businesses in circumstances where the price Mining operations are vulnerable to a number of circumstances beyond paid does not adequately reflect the eventual cost of these liabilities.
the Groups control, including natural disasters, unexpected geological variations and industrial actions.
These can affect costs at particular Exploration and new projects mines for varying periods.
Mining, smelting and refining processes also The Group seeks to identify new mining properties through an active rely on key inputs, for example fuel and electricity.
There is no guarantee, however, that such can provide protection from some, but not all, of the costs that may expenditure will be recouped or that existing mineral reserves will be arise from unforeseen events.
Disruption to the supply of key inputs, or replaced.
Failure to do so could have a material and adverse impact on changes in their pricing, may have a material and adverse impact on the the Groups financial results and prospects.
In particular, Rio Tinto has Groups asset values, costs, earnings and cash flows.
commenced or recommenced exploration for new projects in a number of new countries which may increase risks around land and resource tenure.
Rehabilitation The Group develops new mining properties and expands its existing Costs associated with rehabilitating land disturbed during the mining operations as a means of generating shareholder value.
Increasing process and addressing environmental, health and community issues regulatory, environmental and social approvals are, however, required are estimated and provided for based on the most current information which can result in significant increases in construction costs and or available.
Estimates may, however, be insufficient and or further issues significant delays in construction.
These increases could materially and may be identified.
Any underestimated or unidentified rehabilitation costs adversely affect the economics of a project and, consequently, the will reduce earnings and could materially and adversely affect the Groups asset values, costs, earnings and cash flows.
Groups asset values, earnings and cash flows.
Ore reserve estimates Non managed projects and operations There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and Where projects and operations are controlled and managed by the assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change Groups partners, the Group may provide expertise and advice, but it significantly when new information becomes available.
cannot guarantee compliance with its standards and objectives.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, Improper management or ineffective policies, procedures or controls production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of could not only adversely affect the value of the related non managed reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
Such projects and operations but could also, by association, harm the changes in reserves could impact on depreciation and amortisation rates, Groups other operations and future access to new assets.
6 Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements RISK FACTORS 2006
