13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 15:59 Page 15 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Risk Management RPS Group Risk Analysis nn endeavouring to achieve leadership in those markets: and RPS supplies a wide range of services to many sectors of the economy in a significant number of countries.
nn making acquisitions of quality businesses in order This gives rise to a range of potential risks that need to extend our expertise and geographical to be individually recognised, assessed and effectively presence.
Due to the robust structure of the business Successful implementation of the strategy requires the management of these risks is not an additional the Board to identify appropriate markets and how to function to the business, but is treated as an integral operate in them successfully.
Each year the Board sets part of the way we operate.
Executive Directors itself a series of specific objectives and priorities.
review the risks the Group may be exposed to and Progress against these is measured on a regular basis.
report to the Board the individual risks identified.
The Executive Committee reviews and has The Group has a well-established and embedded to approve all acquisitions before any binding system of internal control and risk management that is commitment is made.
For acquisitions with an designed to safeguard shareholders investment, as well enterprise value in excess of 20 million the full as the Groups assets and reputation.
Whilst the Group Board approval is required prior to any Group Board has overall responsibility for the Groups binding commitment being made.
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it is the role of Divisional management The Executives have developed comprehensive to implement the policies on risk and control.
methods of evaluation of potential acquisitions, including the legal framework within which businesses The principal risks identified by the Group can be are acquired and methods of integration.
described under the following categories: nn Business Strategy - the risk of not delivering the Business Continuity Groups long-term strategy.
Principal risks of the Failure to recruit and retain qualified and talented staff Group include loss of competitive position and can disrupt the Groups ability to win new contracts strategic risks in relation to specific activities.
and or execute contracts effectively.
nn Business Continuity - the risk that in the event of Each of the Groups business has as a an adverse occurrence the business operations management priority the successful implementation will not be able to operate.
Main areas of risk of recruitment and retention strategy and they do here are failure of IT systems and the recruitment this in manners appropriate to the markets they and retention of key staff.
At Group level advice is provided to the businesses about recruitment techniques, nn Financial Commercial - the risk of performance remuneration strategies and people management.
In falling short of expectations.
This includes addition share schemes are put in place to assist staff reputational risk linked to quality of work and motivation and retention.
liability risk not covered by professional indemnity insurance.
RPS Technology Services RPSTS manages all the Groups IT systems although some detailed functions nn Compliance - the risk of failing to comply with all are carried out locally on site.
Each year RPSTS relevant legislation and regulations.
Main areas of produces a plan for the improvement of the Groups risk to the Group include legal action from systems.
The Board approves that plan and allocates compliance failures.
The plan, when necessary and nn Health, Safety and Environment - the risk related appropriate, includes measures designed to ensure to the safety of staff, clients, sub-contractors, reliability and resilience within the Groups systems.
members of the public and the environment.
The fact that the Group has operations in a large Business Strategy number of locations increases its ability to withstand events which cut power and communications or cause The Groups strategy seeks to ensure continuous equipment malfunction or result from theft.
improvement in the range and quality of our services and our financial performance by: nn operating in markets where we can add value to our clients activities: Operating & Financial Review 15 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 15:59 Page 16 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Risk Management continued Financial and Commercial Management newly emerging risks as they occur.
The minutes of these meetings are provided to the Non-Executive RPS endeavours to conduct business in an open and Directors.
A significant part of RPS success derives from the clarity and accountability of its management The RPS Board monitors the Groups financial structure.
The day-to-day business of the Group is performance on a monthly basis using detailed carried out in business units which from time to time budgets as the benchmark.
From time to time future are grouped in either geographical or functional performance is estimated by reference to forward segments or divisions.
Each business unit is treated as order books, although the nature of most contracts both a separate business for the purposes of budgeting means that such forecasting cannot be completely and accounting and as part of the Group-wide network accurate and the degree of imprecision cannot be for marketing and business intelligence purposes.
unit is managed by directors who are responsible for The Groups financial instruments comprise cash, the development of their office and accountable for its bank loans and items such as trade debtors and performance to their Divisional Board.
creditors that arise directly from its operations.
The Each segment or division prepares a Business main purpose of these instruments is to provide Plan which defines the activities and scope of business finance for the Groups operations.
to be conducted by the office.
The budgets quantify The Group reports its results in sterling and has the expectations for the Group and comprise a key operations in Ireland, USA, Canada, Australia and the element of the Business Plans.
The Plans including Netherlands that have functional currencies other budgets are agreed with the Group Board.
As a result the Groups balance sheet businesses in the UK are supported by centrally run and income statement can be affected by movement accountancy and personnel functions.
The Dutch, Irish, in the exchange rate between sterling and the North American and Australian businesses have their functional currencies of the overseas operations.
The own accounting and personnel functions.
RPS has a Group does not hedge such translation exposures.
detailed financial reporting management system, which Where operations have part of their trade in includes checks and reviews, financial modelling, currencies other than their functional currency they accountability and transparency at every level.
endeavour where possible to match the currency of Operational staff have no access to the underlying revenues and cost of sales.
The Group occasionally processing of transactions.
Invoices from suppliers are uses foreign exchange contracts and loans to manage approved by the Operational Directors and are sent transactional risks.
to the finance function for processing and payment.
It has been and remains the Groups policy that Remittances from clients are received by the finance no trading in financial instruments shall be conducted.
This segregation of duties within the finance team itself and between the offices and the The Group has strong review procedures for accounting function ensures accountability and sound monitoring and controlling cash flows and the financial practice at every level.
This includes the production of continuous cash flow projections and the reporting Divisional Finance Directors review the Divisional and review of daily cash collections against targets.
and office results with the Divisional boards and the Operational Directors on a monthly basis.
The internal audit function is undertaken by the Group financial accounting team as part of its other This detailed review, together with the checking functions.
Given the current structure of the Group and reconciliation work done by the accounting team, the Board and the Audit Committee consider that a ensures the high degree of scrutiny required to separate internal audit function is not required minimise the possibility of mistakes, irregularity or presently.
The Board recognises that control risks fraud remaining undetected.
increase during the integration of newly acquired The Groups Executive Committee, which businesses and during this period monitors closely the comprises the Groups Executive Directors and the status of the systems and commercial integration.
Company Secretary meets weekly and discusses 16 Operating & Financial Review 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 15:59 Page 17 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Compliance, Litigation and Insurance which RPS needs to participate.
There are procedures in place for managing such litigation.
The Group also It is important RPS complies with prevailing legislation has extensive cover in place to ensure against losses and with the terms of its contracts with clients, staff and potential loss.
The main policies are Professional and suppliers.
In order to ensure this the Group has in Indemnity and Employers and Public Liability, although place a series of quality management systems.
a range of others are also in place.
In certain parts of its business RPS maintains and implements documented Quality Management Health and Safety Systems which satisfy, as a minimum, the requirements RPS is committed to achieving and maintaining high of ISO 9001:2000, through the: standards of health and safety within the organisation.
nn documenting of procedures to control the quality Detailed operations are managed at Divisional and of services: office level.
nn maintaining records to control and show We endeavour to comply with all health and compliance with quality and client requirements: safety legislation, regulations, codes of practice, best guidance and work methods available, in accordance nn recording the implementation of corrective with the Health and Safety legislation in the countries measures necessary to ensure the quality of we operate.
service provided: It is RPS Group policy to provide and maintain nn taking appropriate preventative measures to safe working conditions, equipment, resources and improve quality and minimise the possibility of systems of work for all employees.
RPS recognises its unsatisfactory service: and duty of care to provide a safe working environment, nn monitoring of the quality management system in systems and procedures in relation to contractors, operation at each office at regular intervals in visitors and other people affected by the Group order to ensure its continuing and improving operations.
Divisional and local policies and objectives effectiveness.
are developed to satisfy specific activities, which are Formal certification to ISO 9001:2000 standard is approved by the Group Board.
a required procedure for some aspects of RPS Directors and managers are responsible to the business: therefore a number of RPS offices in the UK, Group Board for ensuring that the policy and Ireland and the Netherlands are certified to ISO 9001. objectives are met.
Information, instruction, training Offices in North America and Australia have quality and supervision are provided as required to achieve systems that are based on formal procedures that have those objectives.
been developed in line with ISO 9001 guidelines.
RPS offers a range of commercial health and Our business depends largely on our ability to safety consultancy services, covering building health attract and retain talented employees.
The market for and safety, fire safety, asbestos management, highly skilled individuals in our business sector is occupational health and safety, occupational hygiene, extremely competitive.
safety auditing, safety engineering consultancy and Those RPS offices providing environmental emergency planning.
monitoring and analytical services hold external RPS health and safety professionals hold a variety accreditations from additional quality assurance of academic and professional qualifications and include schemes.
Quality accreditations held by individual RPS recognised specialists in safety critical systems in the offices include those externally audited by UKAS, defence, nuclear, offshore, petrochemical, transport, Aquacheck, RICE, UK NEQAS and the UK Health and construction and engineering industries.
The Group Board requires that the managers In Ireland our offices are quality accredited of all businesses ensure that all employees are suitably through the NSAI National Standards Authority of trained in aspects of health and safety relevant to Ireland and SGS and for Safety Management through their needs.
the NISO National Irish Safety Organisation.
Offices are provided with systems to manage However, even when these systems work well health and safety at office and site level.
issues can arise which may give rise to litigation in Operating & Financial Review 17
