The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p16 Master Builder and Contractor Anywhere were Future Outlook acquired in May 2006 and together further enhanced our existing presence in the US This has been an exciting year for Sage with a construction industry.
These acquisitions number of significant acquisitions broadening expanded our offering to smaller businesses both the products and services we offer to in the construction industry complementing our SMEs.
We are one of the largest suppliers of existing mid-market product Timberline Office.
business management software solutions to the SME market worldwide and our presence REST OF WORLD ROW: SOUTH AFRICA, in high growth, high margin markets continues AUSTRALIA, ASIA, INDIA, UAE to expand.
We have reported strong organic Total revenues in ROW were 69.1m 2005: growth in our business, demonstrating the 58.4m with organic growth of 17%.
Our strength and potential of our existing South African business enjoyed an excellent customer base.
year with strong performances in accounting and payroll products.
Australia also reported We will continue to serve the changing good growth in its core products for needs of our dynamic SME customer base professional accountants and payroll markets.
using our expertise and insight into a wide range of industries.
We remain confident The EBITA margin increased to 27% about our prospects for continued growth 2005: 24%.
through focusing on value-added services, tailored solutions and premium versions of We completed two smaller acquisitions during current products.
the year in China, a strategically important geography.
In May 2006, Sage Software Risks and Uncertainties Shanghai Co Ltd was founded through the acquisitions of SWA Ltd. and Huatuo Software There are a number of potential risks and Ltd. both established IT companies in the miduncertainties which could have a material market enterprise resource planning ERP impact on the Groups long-term performance segment.
In July 2006, we completed the and cause actual results to differ materially acquisition of UBS Corporation Berhad UBS, from expected and historical results.
We seek the leading vendor of business management to identify material risks and put into place software solutions for SMEs in Malaysia.
contingency plans to mitigate the Groups potential exposure.
The Groups risk These acquisitions were important steps in management policies and procedures are our strategy gradually to build up a significant also discussed in the Corporate Governance presence in the Asian markets whilst Statement on pages 33 to 38. developing local market expertise.
COMPETITOR RISK GLOBAL CRM REVIEW The market for business management Our CRM product lines encompass a software solutions is highly competitive.
comprehensive range from entry-level This competition may intensify, particularly in packages like ACT!
through to Sage CRM and the small and medium-sized business market, hosted SageCRM.
com, which offer a greater because increasing sophistication in this degree of customer functionality.
SalesLogix market segment may attract more companies is a highly customisable CRM solution offering to enter the market.
Many companies with our reseller partners significant opportunities which we compete, or which may enter into to add value through tailoring our solution competition with us, have substantial to suit customers specific requirements.
financial, marketing and technical resources.
Global CRM revenue grew 8% organically.
Foreign currency results for the year ended 30 September 2005 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2006 of $1.80 1 and 1.46 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Results for 2005 have been restated in accordance with IFRS.
EPS figures stated prior to amortisation of intangible assets.
