RISK PRODUCT LIABILITY The Group monitors the safety of its products from initial product development through to product use or application.
In addition, the businesses of the Group analyse on a worldwide basis reports of adverse reactions and complaints relating to its products.
Each business reviews these adverse reactions and complaints and any safety matters arising with independent medical advisors.
These conclusions are subsequently reviewed by the Groups independent medical advisor.
Product liability is a commercial risk for the industry of which the Group is a part, particularly in the US.
Smith & Nephew has implemented systems it believes are appropriate in respect of loss control techniques.
These include reporting mechanisms to ensure early notification of complaints and a legal department which manages  and lawsuits.
The Group carries product liability insurance to cover exposure as far as practicable.
Apart from the macrotextured claims, discussed under Legal Proceedings, and Risk Factors, there are no individual product liability claims, and no group of similar claims, that are expected to have a material adverse effect on the Groups financialposition.
There can be no assurance that consumers, particularly in the US, will not bring product liability or related claims that would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations in the future or that the Group will continue to resolve such claims within insurance limits in view of changing legal doctrines and attitudes regardingsuchmatters.
See Risk Factors  and Loss of Reputation.
RISK FACTORS Smith & Nephews products include implantable devices but are not life support medical devices.
If these devices malfunction, they could damage or impair the repair of body functions.
Management believes that the Groups quality, regulatory and medical controls and insurance cover is adequate and appropriate for this class of products.
The Groups reputation is crucially dependent on strong performance in this area and on appropriate crisismanagement if a serious medical  shouldoccur.
The Group maintains insurance against product, employers and directors and officers liabilities, and physical and consequential loss, subject to limits and deductibles.
The Group maintains liability provisions to cover known uninsuredrisks.
There are risks and uncertainties related to Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below are those that Smith & Nephew believes could cause the Groups actual financial condition or results of operations to differ materially from expected and historical results.
Factors other than those listed here, that Smith & Nephew cannot presently identify, could also adversely affect Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements in this report and the cautionary statements  Special Note Regarding .
Product LiabilityClaims and Lossof Reputation The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices and products entail risk of product liability claims or recalls.
Design defects and manufacturing defects with respect to products sold by the Group or by companies it has acquired could result in damage to or impairing the repair of body functions.
Smith & Nephew may become subject to liability, which could be substantial, because of actual or alleged malfunction of its products.
In addition, product malfunction could also lead to the need to recall from the market existing products, which may be costly and harmfulto the Groups reputation whichis cruciallydependent onproductsafety and efficacy.
Product liability is a risk in the medical devices industry, particularly in the US, the Groups largest geographic market where claims for pain and suffering and loss of earnings may involve substantial amounts.
There is a risk that patients bring product liability or related claims that could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
The potential exists for claimants to join together in a class action which could have the effect of increasingthe total potential liability.
The Group maintains product liability insurance, but this insurance is subject to limits and deductibles.
There is a risk that this insurance could become unavailable at a reasonable cost or at all, or will be inadequate to cover 21 Group Description specific product liability claims.
Insurance premiums are relatively high, particularly for coverage in the US, and there is a risk at the medical devices industry level that insurance coverage could become increasingly costly.
If Smith & Nephew or any companies it acquires do not have adequate insurance, product liability claims and costs associated with product recalls could significantly limit Smith & Nephews available cash flow and negatively impact productsales from any associated loss of business.
In August 2003 the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
As at that date 2,971 components had been implanted of which approximately 2,471 were in the USA, 450 in Australia and 50 in Europe, the first component having been implanted in December 2001.
The product was withdrawn when management became aware of a higher than usual percentage of reports of early revisions revisions are implants which need to be replaced.
It appears that some patients do not achieve adequate initial fixation and other patients who are able to achieve adequate initial fixation, are not able to maintain it.
Smith & Nephew has extensively tested and investigated the cause of these early revisions.
An investigation by a group of medical and scientific experts retained and managed by the Groups defence lawyers concluded that the cause of the limited number of early revisions that have been reported is the textured surface of the implant that apposes bone.
As at 31 December 2006 the total amount paid out to date in settlements, legal costs and associated expenses was $172m of which $60m was recovered from the insurer who provided the primary layer and 65% of the first excess layer in the Groups global product liability programme.
The balance of $112m is due from five other insurers who have declined coverage.
Management is taking steps in order to enforce insurance coverage: the Group is preparing its breach of contract suit against certain of its product liability insurers for trial which has been scheduled by the Court for February 2008.
A charge of $154m representing the amount outstanding from insurers and an estimate of the cost associated with claims likely to arise in the future assuming that insurance cover continues to be unavailable from these and subsequent excess layer insurers was recorded in 2004.
There has been nosubsequent changeto the originalestimated liability.
Medical DeviceCompany Valuations As a growth industry medical device companies have higher stock market valuations than many other industrial companies.
 The Groups principal business units compete across a diverse range of geographic and product markets.
The markets in which each of the business units operates each contain a number of different competitors, including specialised and international corporations.
Significant product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors could adversely affect the Groups operating results.
Some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than Smith & Nephew.
These competitors may be able to deliver products on more attractive terms, more aggressively market their products or invest larger amounts of capital and research and development into their businesses.
The competitive risk in the endoscopy market from the reprocessing and re-use of single use disposable devices such as arthroscopic resectionblades declined inthe US during2005 and 2006 but is still a factor  the US.
There is a risk of further consolidation particularly in the orthopaedic industry, which could adversely affect the Groups ability to compete with much larger companies due to insufficient financial resources.
If any of the Groups businesses were to lose market share or achieve lower than expected sales growth there could be a  impact onthe Groups share priceand its strategic options.
In addition, competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as among the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue long term.
Increased competition and unanticipated actionsby competitors orcustomers couldlead to downwardpressure onprices and ora declineinmarket share in any of the Groups business areas which would adversely affect Smith & Nephews results of operations and hinderits growthpotential.
Failure to Make Successful Acquisitions A key element of the Groups strategy for continued growth is to make acquisitions or alliances to complement its existing businesses.
Failure to identify appropriate acquisition targets or failure to integrate them successfully wouldhave an adverse impact onthe Groups competitive positionand profitability.
22 Attracting and Retaining Key Personnel The Groups continued development depends on its ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel with particular expertise.
This is critical, particularly in research and new product development and in the reconstruction, trauma and clinical therapies and endoscopy sales forces of which the largest are in the US.
If Smith & Nephew is unable to retain key personnel in research and new product development or if its largest sales forces suffer disruptionorupheaval, its sales and operating profit wouldbe adversely affected.
Reimbursement In most markets throughout the world, expenditure on medical devices is ultimately controlled to a large extent by governments.
Funds may be made available or withdrawn from healthcare budgets depending on government policy.
The Group is therefore largely dependent on future governments providing increased funds commensuratewiththe increased demand arisingfrom demographictrends.
Pricing of the Groups products is governed in most major markets largely by governmental reimbursement authorities.
This control may be exercised by determining prices for an individual product or for an entire procedure.
The Group is exposed to changes in reimbursement policy and pricing which may have an adverse impact on sales and operating profit.
The Group must adhere to the rules laid down by funding agencies including the US Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse rules.
Failure to do so could result in fines or loss of future funding.
Trends in the Healthcare Industry Business practice in the healthcare industry is subject to review by government authorities and regulators.
In March 2005 the Groups orthopaedic business was issued with a subpoena by the US Attorneys office requesting copies of its consulting, professional service and remuneration agreements with orthopaedic reconstruction surgeons.
There have been no significant developments since then but any unfavourable ruling against the Group or the orthopaedics industry as a whole could have a material adverse impact on the Groups results orcause a loss of reputation.
In June 2006, a subpoena was issued to the orthopaedic business by the United States Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, requesting documents for the period beginning January 2001 through to the present relating to possible violations of US antitrust laws, in respect of the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices.
Similarenquirieshave been directed to a numberof the Groups US competitors.
In connection with this subpoena, the Group has received six complaints in class action lawsuits alleging violations of the Sherman Antitrust Act.
Although the Group intends to vigorously defend itself, any adverse judgement may have a material adverse effect on the Groups reputation and results of operations and the Group may be required to significantly change some of its existing business practices.
In addition, Smith & Nephews cooperation with these investigations may divert the attention of management and require the devotion of a substantial amountof time and resources.
Regulatory Approvals and Controls The medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of time and expense that should be allotted to such development.
At any time the Group is awaiting a number of regulatory approvals, which if not received, could adversely affect results of operations.
Regulatory approval of new products and new materials is required in each country in which the Group operates although a single approval may be obtained for all countries within the European Union.
Regulatory approval of new products may entail a lengthy process particularly if materials are employed which have not previously been used in similar products.
Regulatory approvals in the US, Europe and Japan and are the most critical to the Groups success in launching new products.
The Group is required to comply with a wide range of regulatory controls over the manufacturing, testing, distribution and marketing of its products, particularly in US, UK and Continental Europe.
Such controls have become increasingly demanding and management believes that this trend will continue.
Failure to comply with such controls could have a number of adverse consequences, including withdrawal of approval to sell a product ina countryortemporary closureof a .
Patent Infringement Claims Due to the technological nature of medical devices, the Group is subject to the potential for patent infringement claims.
Smith & Nephew attempts to protect its intellectual property and regularlyopposes third party patents and 23 Group Description trademarks in those areas that might conflict with the Groups business interests.
If Smith & Nephew fails to successfully enforce its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could suffer, which could harm its results of operations.
Claims asserted by third parties regarding infringement of their intellectual property rights, if successful, could require the Group to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing products or to obtain licencesto the products whichare the subject of suchlitigation.
Continual Developmentand Introduction of New Products The Group operates in the medical devices industry, which has a rapid introductionrate of new products.
In order to remain competitive, each of the Groups business units must continue to develop innovative products that satisfy customer needs and preferences or provide cost or other advantages.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
A potential product may not be brought to market for any number of reasons, including failure to work optimally, failure to receive regulatory approval, failure to be cost-competitive, infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights and changes in consumer demand.
The Groups products and technologies are subject to marketing attack by competitors.
Furthermore, new products that are developed and marketed by the Groups competitors may affect price levels in the various markets in which the Groups business units operate.
If new products do not remain competitive with competitors products, the Groups sales revenue coulddecline.
There is a risk that a major disruptive technology could be introduced into one of the Groups markets and adversely affect its ability to achieve business plans and targets.
Manufacturing and Supply The Groups manufacturing production is concentrated at six main facilities in Memphis, Tennessee, Mansfield, Massachusetts, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and Largo, Florida in the United States and Hull and Gilberdyke in the United Kingdom.
If major physical disruption took place at any of these sites, it would adversely affect the results of operations.
Physical loss and consequential loss insurance is carried to cover such risks but is subject to limits and deductibles and may not be sufficient to covercatastrophic loss.
Management of reconstruction inventory is complex, particularly forecasting and production planning.
There is a riskthat failures  to excess .
Each of the business units is reliant on certain key suppliers of raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials.
If any of these suppliers is unable to meet the Groups needs or substantially increases its prices, Smith & Nephew would need to seek alternative suppliers.
There can be no assurance that alternative suppliers would provide the necessary raw materials on favourable or cost-effective terms.
Consequently, the Group may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain raw materials, which it may not be able to pass on to its customers in the form of increased prices for its finished products.
In addition, some of the raw materials used may become unavailable, and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain suitable and costeffective substitutes.
There is currently a risk that supplies of SUPARTZ, which is extracted from rooster combs, may be impacted by the outbreak of avian flu in Asia.
Any interruption of supply caused by these or other factors couldnegatively impact Smith & Nephews revenue and operating profit.
Currency Fluctuations Beginning in 2006 the Group adopted the US Dollar as its reporting currency and the functional currency of Smith & Nephew plc changed to the US Dollar.
In 2006 49% of Group revenue arose in the US, 22% in Continental Europe, 20% in Africa, Asia, Australia, Canada, New Zealand and Latin America and 9% in the UK.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates used to translate the financial statements of operations outside the US into US Dollars had the effect of increasingGroup revenue by 1%.
The Groups manufacturing cost base is situated in the US and the UK from where finished products are exported to the Groups selling operations worldwide.
Thus the Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the US Dollar and Sterling and the currencies of the Groups selling operations, particularly the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
If the US Dollar and or Sterling should strengthen against the Euro and the Japanese Yen then Group trading marginwouldbe adversely affected.
Political and Economic Uncertainties Because the Group has operations in 31 countries, political and economic upheaval in those countries or in the regions surrounding those countries may impact the Groups results of operations.
Political changes in a country 24 could prevent the Group from receiving remittances of profit from a member of the Group located in that country or from selling its investments in that country.
Furthermore, legislative measures in a country could result in changes in tariffs, import quotas or taxation that could adversely affect the Groups turnover and operating profit.
Terrorist activities and ongoing global political uncertainties, including conflict in the Middle East, could adversely impact the Group.
Other Risk Factors The Board considers that Smith & Nephew is subject to a number of other risks whichare commonto most global medical technology groups and which are reviewed as part of its risk management process.
In the financial area these include interest rate volatility, share price volatility, challenges by taxation authorities, failures in reporting and  uninsuredlosses.
Adverse events in the areas of corporate social responsibility could also adversely impact Group operating results.
EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATE RISK AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Board of Directors of the Company has established a set of policies to manage funding, currencyand interest rate risks.
Derivative financial instruments are used only to manage the financial risks associated with underlying business activities and their financing.
ForeignExchange Exposure The Group trades in over 90 countries and as a consequence has transactional and translational foreign exchange exposure.
The Groups policy is to protect shareholders funds by matching foreign currency assets, including acquisition goodwill, with foreign currency liabilities wherever practicable.
These liabilities take the form of either borrowings or currency swaps.
It is the Groups policy for operating units not to hold unhedged monetary assets orliabilities other than intheir functionalcurrencies.
Foreign exchange variations affect trading results in two ways.
Firstly on translation of overseas sales and profits into US Dollars and secondly, the currency cost of purchases by Group companies of finished products and raw materials.
The principal flows of currency are purchases of US Dollars and Sterling from Euros, Japanese yen and Australian dollars, as well as cross purchases between the US and the UK.
The Group partly mitigates the translational impact on profits through the interest arising on foreign currency borrowings or swaps.
The impact of currency movements on the cost of purchases is partly mitigated by the use of forward foreignexchange contracts.
The Group managed $660m of foreign currency purchase transactions by using forward foreign exchange contracts, of which the major transaction flow is Euros into US Dollars.
The Groups policy is for firm commitments to be fully covered and forecast transactions to be covered between 50% and 90% for up to one year.
If the Euro were to weaken against US Dollar on average by 10% over the year, the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts wouldincrease by $9m 2005 increase by $7m.
Had the Group not transacted forward foreign exchange purchase contracts and if the Euro were to have weakened on average over the year by 10% against all other currencies, Smith & Nephews profit before taxation in 2006 would have decreased by $29m on account of transactional and translational movements: if the US Dollar were to have weakened onaverage over the year by 10% against all other currencies, profit before taxation in2006 wouldhave increased by $53m.
The Groups net cash is exposed to movements in exchange rates.
Based upon the net cash position at 31 December 2006 as detailed in Note 19 of the Notes to the Group Accounts if the US Dollar were to weaken against all currenciesby 10%, the Groups net cash woulddecrease by $24m.
At 31 December 2005 the Group had transacted a contingent foreign exchange contract to hedge the anticipated proceeds on the sale of its investment in the BSN Medical joint venture.
This contract did not qualify for hedge accounting.
The maturing of the contract was contingent on the receipt of the proceeds of sale.
Should the sale not have completed no amounts would have been payable or receivable in respect of the contract.
25 Group Description Interest Rate Risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on cash, borrowings and currency swaps which are all at floating rates.
As at 31 December 2006, the Group had not fixed future interest rates.
Based upon the net cash position at 31 December 2006, a decrease in short-term interest rates across all currencies by one percentage point would decrease the Groups annual net interest receivable by $2m 2005 decrease the net interest payable by $3m.
The Groups financial assets and liabilities were principally at floating interest rates and thus their fair values are not directly affected by movements inmarket rates of interest.
Financial Instruments The Groups financial instruments are subject to changes in fair values as a result of changes in market rates of exchange and forward interest rates.
Financial instruments entered into to hedge foreign currency purchase transactions and foreign currency assets are accounted for as hedges.
As a result, changes in fair values of these financialinstruments do not affect the Groups profit onordinaryactivities before taxation.
The Group limits exposure to credit risk on counterparties used for financial instruments through a system of internal credit limits which, with certain minor exceptions due to local market conditions, require counterparties to have a minimum A rating from the major ratings agencies.
The financial exposure of a counterparty is determined as the total of cash and deposits, plus the risk on derivative instruments, assessed as the fair value of the instrument plus a risk element based on the nominal value and the historic volatility of the market value of the instrument.
Smith & Nephew does not anticipate non-performance of counterparties and believes it is not subject to material concentrationof credit risk.
