24 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued July 2006 June 2006 Smiths honoured for medical technology Smiths supplies US military with chemical With the incidence of the more serious detectors Type 1 diabetes on the increase, there Smiths wins $9.5m contract to supply our is a growing need to improve treatment.
battle-proven Improved Chemical Agent Our Cleo insulin infusion set received two Monitor ICAM units to the US military.
awards for medical design excellence this year.
These rugged post-attack devices quickly locate the presence of nerve and blister agents on both combat and homeland security missions.
In addition, contracting with the US Government subjects Risks and uncertainties a company to numerous stringent regulatory obligations, Smiths operates globally in varied markets and manages calling for an active programme of compliance, reporting and the risks inherent in its activities.
The Company seeks to communication.
By contrast, the Companys activities in some mitigate exposure to all forms of risk, both external and countries with less developed legal systems pose challenges internal, where practicable, and to transfer risk to insurers, for the protection of corporate assets such as real estate and where cost-effective.
External risks include global political and economic In order to address the challenges and exploit the opportunities conditions: actions of competitors: the effect of legislation or arising from these and other legal issues, Smiths employs other regulatory action: foreign exchange: raw material prices: suitably experienced lawyers in head office and certain pension funding: credit: environmental issues: and litigation.
operations, and retains the services of law firms around the world.
Internal risks include investment in new products, projects and technology: acquisitions: controls failure: inability to supply and John Crane, Inc.
As previously reported, John Crane, Inc. John Crane a subsidiary of the Company, is one of the many co-defendants External risks in numerous law suits pending in the USA in which plaintiffs Global political and economic conditions are claiming damages arising from exposure to, or use of, Smiths operates in over 50 countries, although some 90% products containing asbestos.
The John Crane products of the Companys employees are located in North America, generally referred to in these cases are ones in which the the EU and Japan.
The Company is exposed to political risk, asbestos fibres were encapsulated in such a manner that, natural catastrophe and possible terrorist action.
according to tests conducted on behalf of John Crane, the Some 55% of total sales are to customers in the US, and the products were safe.
John Crane ceased manufacturing Company is therefore particularly affected by US economic products containing asbestos in 1985. conditions.
Demand for products from the Detection business John Crane has resisted every case in which it has been is mainly dependent on spending by governments and named and will continue its robust defence of all asbestosgovernment agencies.
related claims based upon this safe product defence.
As a Political risk result of its defence policy, John Crane has been dismissed The demand faced by the Company in the military aerospace before trial from cases involving approximately 128,000 claims sector is dependent on defence spending by governments, over the last 27 years.
John Crane is currently a defendant in mainly in the US and Europe.
Despite these large numbers of claims, John Crane has had final judgments Natural catastrophe against it, after appeals, in only 55 cases, amounting to awards Because of the location of operations, Smiths is exposed to of some US$52.6m over the 27 year period.
a number of natural catastrophe risks, such as earthquake, flood and windstorm.
Where cost effective, such risks are To date these awards, the related interest and all material mitigated through physical measures designed to counter the costs of defending these claims have been met directly by impact of a catastrophe.
The value of assets and associated insurers.
Since the year end John Crane has secured the profits are also protected by insurance.
commutation of certain insurance policies, resulting in anticipated proceeds of approximately US$54m.
While Possible terrorist action substantial insurance will remain in place, it is likely that The demand faced by the Company in the commercial John Crane will in future meet defence costs directly, aerospace sector is a function of airline profitability, primarily seeking appropriate contribution from insurers thereafter.
driven by economic prosperity, which tends to be affected by terrorism or international tension.
Commercial aerospace No provision relating to this litigation has been made in these sales account for less than 15% of total activities.
25 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued July 2006 Smiths awarded A400 contract Smiths Aerospace was awarded a contract to supply the in-flight refuelling probe for the Airbus A400M aircraft.
The contract has a potential value of $35m.
The diverse nature of the Companys products, services and Raw material prices customers helps mitigate the effects of adverse changes Smiths products contain various raw materials or purchased in political and economic risk on the demand that Smiths components including electronic components, metals and experiences.
Any increases or volatility in prices and shortages in supply can affect the Companys performance.
The diversity Actions of competitors of operations both geographically and in terms of product Smiths operates in highly competitive markets.
Product area reduces the dependence on any single item or supplier.
innovations or technical advances by competitors could Purchasing policies take into account and seek to mitigate adversely affect the Company.
The diversity of operations such risks where practicable.
reduces the possible effect of action by any single competitor.
Pension funding The Company invests some 10% of revenues in research and The Company operates significant pension plans as detailed development in order to sustain competitive advantage, and in note 9 to the accounts.
The average funding level of the works continually to ensure that the cost base is competitive.
funded plans at 5 August 2006 was 103% measured by IAS 19 Effect of legislation or other regulatory action methodology.
Funding of pension liabilities at that date was Smiths is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and some 55% by equities and 45% by other assets.
Smiths is standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
subject to various funding risks, principally poor performance Unexpected changes in these laws or regulations could of the equity investments, and increased longevity of members.
significantly impair performance: equally, a failure to comply Credit with these laws, regulations or standards could damage the Smiths is exposed to credit risk in relation to customers, reputation of the Company.
Credit control practices take into account The Aerospace, Detection and Medical businesses are the perceived risk.
The customer base is relatively diverse.
particularly subject to regulation, with certain customers and Risk controls with regard to the Companys bank deposits are regulatory or other enforcement bodies routinely inspecting set out in the Treasury section.
the Companys practices, processes and premises.
Certain legal liability risks, such as product liability and employers Where appropriate, Smiths seeks to insure business risks with liability, are transferred to insurers, subject to policy limits and insurers of good standing.
The insurance industry is, however, conditions.
However, the Company and its subsidiaries have subject to credit risk, particularly in the event of catastrophe or been in business for many years and there is a risk of latent where an insurer has substantial exposure to a specific risk.
injury claims which may not be fully covered by insurance.
Occasionally insurer credit risk may be mitigated through policy commutation.
Foreign exchange The Company is exposed to two types of currency risk: Environmental issues transaction risk in respect of products manufactured in one The environmental laws of the jurisdictions in which Smiths currency region and sold in another currency: and translation operates impose actual and potential obligations on the risk in that the results of non-UK businesses will translate Company to remediate contaminated sites, including some into differing sterling values depending on the exchange rate.
sites no longer owned by Smiths.
The Company makes The Companys practices for managing currency risk, as set provision for the expected cost of remediation based on out in the Treasury section, generally mitigate transaction independent professional advice see note 21 to the accounts.
Over the longer term, Smiths remains There is a risk that remediation could prove more costly than exposed to both transaction and translation risk.
expected and that further contamination could be discovered.
Longer-term transaction risks are mitigated by manufacturing Litigation or sourcing components in the same currency as that of the sale.
Smiths is subject to litigation from time to time in the ordinary course of business, and makes provision for the expected cost Net exports from the UK comprise approximately 17% of based on appropriate professional advice see note 21 to the total sales.
Details of current, material litigation are set out in the Legal Issues section.
