OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Research and development environment and the generation, storage, amount of raw material price increases To underpin our strategy to grow the handling, transportation and disposal of or higher energy, freight or other operating contribution from our value added products, waste materials.
The Group recognises the costs to our customers and this could we are continuing to invest in research and negative impacts that could arise from a reduce our profitability.
We believe this is a key major safety or environmental incident which differentiator for Tate & Lyle.
In the year include: Changes in consumer dietary ended 31 March 2006, we employed a requirements and preferences, or new fines or penalties for breach of safety further 45 qualified scientists and associated scientific evidence could decrease laws: staff and the cost of research and demand for our products interruptions in operations or loss of development increased by 5%.
We also A decline in consumption of one or more licence to operate: established Tate & Lyle Ventures, a fund product categories could occur in the future liability payments and costs to employees to invest in new products and technologies due to a variety of factors such as concerns or third parties arising from injury or that are closely aligned with Tate & Lyles about obesity and diabetes resulting in a damage: and strategic objectives.
consumer preference for lighter, lower calorie damage to reputation.
beverages and foods or could occur in the Patents future if new scientific research or studies Tate & Lyle maintains a significant number Our success depends upon our were to raise material issues regarding the of patents to support its businesses employees and the recruitment and adverse safety or health effects of food and protect its competitive advantage.
retention of key personnel products which are currently considered safe Much of the product innovation and Central to the success of Tate & Lyles and healthy.
Although our product offering development work carried out by our growth strategy is the performance, contains alternative products to meet these research and development teams results knowledge and skill-sets of our key preferences and concerns we may not be in patentable new technology.
We monitor personnel and employees around the world.
able to adapt our production and research market developments closely to identify We recognise the need to attract, integrate and development as rapidly as market any potential violations of our patents and retain the talent required to fulfil our changes occur in the mix of products used.
and take appropriate legal action where ambitions and understand the negative If there were found to be any long-term considered necessary.
impact on results that could arise from detrimental effects to any of Tate & Lyles an inability to retain key knowledge and products this could impact the Groups adequately plan succession.
Risk factors Non-compliance with legislation can lead Tate & Lyle relies on the continued Tate & Lyle may be affected by a number of to financial and reputational damage safe operation and the sufficiency risks, not all of which are within our control.
The Group is aware of the importance of of our geographically dispersed Outlined below is a description of some of complying with all applicable legislation manufacturing facilities the risk factors that may affect our business affecting its business activities and of the The Groups revenues are dependent and share price.
Other factors besides those potential damage to reputation and financial on the continued operation of our various listed below may also adversely affect the impact which can result from any breach.
manufacturing facilities and the consistent Group.
The process Tate & Lyle has in place production of finished products that meet for managing these risks is described in the Fluctuations in prices and availability our customers specifications.
The operation Corporate Governance report on page 52. of raw material, energy, freight and other of our plants involves many risks, including operating inputs may affect our margins There are inherent risks and uncertainties the breakdown, failure or substandard All our finished products are derived from behind all the forward-looking statements performance of equipment, explosion due renewable agricultural raw materials.
All of contained in this section which could have to the flammable nature of some substances these materials are subject to fluctuations a material impact on the future results.
Along used in production, the improper installation in price due to factors such as harvest and with those discussed in the financial review, or operation of equipment, natural disasters, weather conditions, crop disease, crop the following section contains our perception potential product contamination and the yields, alternative crops and by-product of particular important risks and uncertainties need to comply with environmental and values.
In particular the ongoing changes facing the Group.
other directives of governmental agencies.
in the EU sugar regime will increase the Any significant manufacturing disruptions importance of gaining access to adequate Failure to act safely could have a or product contamination could adversely supplies of raw sugar for our European detrimental impact on Tate & Lyles affect our ability to make and sell products refineries.
Energy usage in our production operations which could cause our sales and operating facilities represents one of our main The safety of our employees, contractors, profits to decline.
The Group primarily suppliers, the communities in which we purchases coal, oil and natural gas, each operate and the consumers of our products, Competitors may achieve significant of which is subject to price volatility due is of paramount importance for Tate & Lyle.
competitive advantage through to fluctuations in both global and regional Around the world, the Group is subject to technological step change or higher supply and demand.
In some cases, due to supranational, national, federal, state and service levels the basis for pricing in our sales contracts, local laws, regulations, rules and ordinances If our competitors were able to identify, or due to competitive markets, we may not relating to health, safety and the environment develop and introduce on a commercial be able to pass on to our customers the full including pollution, the protection of the basis a major technological step change, 24 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 such as significantly improving the efficiency The commoditisation of value added have a significant impact on the ability of the of the production process and lowering products or a failure to achieve business to operate.
This covers a variety of costs or introducing a new product with appropriate margins could lead to areas ranging from safeguarding the assets better functionality, we may not be able greater price volatility of the business to the accuracy and reliability to introduce a comparable change in The natural life cycle of many products of its records and financial reporting.
Similarly, we means that value added products that must ensure we at least match or currently generate higher margins could As a public company Tate & Lyle must exceed competitors service and quality become commoditised in the future.
provide accurate and timely information performance.
If we cannot compete The relatively higher margins of value added to the market to deliver long-term effectively with such innovation or products compared to commodities could shareholder value service levels, our sales and profitability attract new entrants or existing competitors The share price on the stock market is could decline.
into our product markets which could in turn based on the expectations of a wide variety lead to a decline in our sales or margins.
of market participants such as analysts, We may not be able to protect our Equally, a failure to recognise the true value brokers, investment funds and other intellectual property which the market places on our value added investors.
Media stories or rumours can Our commercial success depends, in products may mean that we do not sell at influence these expectations.
Failure to part, on obtaining and maintaining patent the appropriate price and fail to achieve their provide accurate and timely information, protection on certain of our products and full profitability.
failure to meet Group targets, or failure to successfully defending these patents against respond in an appropriate way could lead third party challenge or infringements.
Our Failure to manage joint venture or to uncertainty and volatility in the share price technology is protected from unauthorised partnership relationships effectively could and the erosion of shareholder value.
use by others only to the extent that it is be detrimental to Tate & Lyles business covered by valid and enforceable patents or The Group recognises that joint ventures Exchange rate fluctuations could create TM effectively maintained as trade secrets.
Our such as Bio-PDO with DuPont and other earnings and balance sheet volatility patents or patent applications, if issued, may commercial arrangements such as the The Group operates in many different be challenged, invalidated or circumvented.
global alliance with McNeil Nutritionals on countries and is subject to currency Our patent rights may not provide us with SPLENDA Sucralose must be managed fluctuations arising on transactional foreign proprietary protection or competitive effectively to ensure that both partners currency exposures and the translation of advantages against competitors with similar objectives are aligned and to maximise overseas subsidiaries results.
Others may independently financial and operational performance.
a weakening of the US dollar and euro develop technologies similar to ours or At the same time, the Group is aware of against sterling would have a negative independently duplicate our technologies.
the importance of selecting new partners impact on the sterling reported net assets Due to the extensive time required for carefully so as to avoid the potential negative and shareholders funds.
development, testing and regulatory review impacts on growth or profit levels of an of certain potential products, our patents unsuccessful relationship.
Volatile capital markets could create a may expire or remain in existence for only shortfall in funding of retirement benefits a short period following commercialisation.
Fostering the correct conditions for The Group maintains various retirement This would reduce or eliminate any growth is critical to Tate & Lyles success benefit plans for employees that are funded advantage of the patents.
We may face The Group acknowledges the significance through investments in equities, bonds and litigation to assert claims of infringement, of identifying appropriate markets in which other investments, the value of which is enforce our patents, protect our trade to grow the business, and in fostering the dependent on world markets that can be secrets or know-how, or determine the correct conditions within the business to volatile.
The Group may be required to scope and validity of others proprietary achieve growth and to ensure that we provide additional funding to cover any rights.
We may be unable to enforce our maximise returns.
We also understand the shortfalls in our benefit plan funding arising patents or otherwise protect our proprietary importance of the low-cost focus within our from falls in the value of these investments.
rights, which could have a material adverse manufacturing facilities which provides a Any significant additional funding effect on our business, financial condition sound base for this growth and the need requirements could adversely impact the and results of operations.
to proactively respond to new market trends Groups financial position.
Failure to identify these These risks could have a material adverse Failure to deliver on major projects could trends, opportunities and potential threats effect on our business.
Accordingly, our impact Tate & Lyles ability to maximise and then carry out proper evaluation and overall success as a global business both profitability and return on capital execution could have an adverse effect on depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed The successful completion of major projects our business.
in different economic, social and political such as significant capital expenditure environments and to manage and to mitigate projects, acquisitions, and establishing new Failure to maintain an effective system these risks.
partnerships or joint ventures is important to of internal financial controls could lead Tate & Lyles ability to both sustain and grow to financial irregularities and loss the business.
Without its effective internal financial controls, the Company could be exposed to financial irregularities and loss from intentional or accidental acts which could Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 25
