Risk Factors, Trends and Outlook Risk Factors Changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value of certain Group assets could result in impairment.
Regulatory decisions and changes in the regulatory Vodafone completes a review of the carrying value of its assets annually, or more environment could adversely affect the Groups business.
frequently where the circumstances require, to assess whether those carrying values Because the Group has ventures in a large number of geographic areas, it must comply can be supported by the future cash flows derived from such assets.
This review with an extensive range of requirements that regulate and supervise the licensing, examines the continued appropriateness of the assumptions in respect of highly construction and operation of its telecommunications networks and services.
In uncertain matters upon which the carrying values of certain of the Groups assets are particular, there are agencies which regulate and supervise the allocation of frequency based.
This includes an assessment of discount rates and long term growth rates, future spectrum and which monitor and enforce regulation and competition laws which apply to technological developments and timing and quantum of future capital expenditure, as the mobile telecommunications industry.
Decisions by regulators regarding the granting, well as several factors which may affect revenues and profitability identified within other amendment or renewal of licences, to the Group or to third parties, could adversely affect Risk Factors in this section such as intensifying competition, pricing pressures, the Groups future operations in these geographic areas.
The Group cannot provide any regulatory changes and the timing for introducing new products or services.
Due to the assurances that governments in the countries in which it operates will not issue Groups substantial carrying value of goodwill under IFRS and licences under US GAAP, telecommunications licences to new operators whose services will compete with it.
In the revision of any of these assumptions to reflect current or anticipated changes in addition, other changes in the regulatory environment concerning the use of mobile operations or the financial condition of the Group could lead to an impairment in the phones may lead to a reduction in the usage of mobile phones or otherwise adversely carrying value of certain assets in the Group.
Whilst impairment does not impact affect the Group.
Additionally, decisions by regulators and new legislation could affect the reported cash flows, it does result in a non-cash charge on the income statement, and pricing for, or adversely affect the revenue from, the services the Group offers.
Further thus no assurance can be given that any future impairments would not affect the details on the regulatory framework in certain countries and regions in which the Group Companys reported distributable reserves and therefore its ability to make distributions operates, and on regulatory proceedings can be found in Regulation on pages 21 to 24. to its shareholders or repurchase its shares.
See Critical Accounting Estimates Impairment Reviews on page 26.
Increased competition may reduce market share or revenue.
The Group faces intensifying competition.
Competition could lead to a reduction in the The Groups business would be adversely affected by the nonrate at which the Group adds new customers and to a decrease in the size of the Groups supply of equipment and support services by a major supplier.
market share as customers choose to receive telecommunications services, or other Companies within the Group source their mobile network infrastructure and related competing services, from other providers.
Examples include, but are not limited to, support services from third party suppliers.
The removal from the market of one or more competition from internet-based services and MVNOs.
of these third party suppliers would adversely affect the Groups operations and could result in additional capital expenditures by the Group.
The focus of competition in many of the Groups markets continues to shift from customer acquisition to customer retention as the market for mobile telecommunications has become increasingly penetrated.
Customer deactivations are The Companys strategic objectives may be impeded by measured by the Groups churn rate.
There can be no assurance that the Group will not the fact that it does not have a controlling interest in some experience increases in churn rates, particularly as competition intensifies.
An increase of its ventures.
in churn rates could adversely affect profitability because the Group would experience Some of the Groups interests in mobile licences are held through entities in which it is a lower revenue and additional selling costs to replace customers, although such costs significant but not controlling owner.
Under the governing documents for some of these would have a future revenue stream to mitigate the impact.
partnerships and corporations, certain key matters such as the approval of business plans and decisions as to the timing and amount of cash distributions require the Increased competition has also led to declines in the prices the Group charges for its mobile consent of the partners.
In others, these matters may be approved without the services and is expected to lead to further price declines in the future.
The Company may enter into similar arrangements as it participates also lead to an increase in the level at which the Group must provide subsidies for handsets.
in ventures formed to pursue additional opportunities.
Although the Group has not been Additionally, the Group could face increased competition should there be an award of materially constrained by the nature of its mobile ownership interests, no assurance can additional licences in jurisdictions in which a member of the Group already has a licence.
be given that its partners will not exercise their power of veto or their controlling influence in any of the Groups ventures in a way that will hinder the Groups corporate Delays in the development of handsets and network objectives and reduce any anticipated cost savings or revenue enhancement resulting compatibility and components may hinder the deployment from these ventures.
The Groups operations depend in part upon the successful deployment of continuously Expected benefits from investment in networks, licences and evolving mobile telecommunications technologies.
The Group uses technologies from a new technology may not be realised.
number of vendors and makes significant capital expenditures in connection with the The Group has made substantial investments in the acquisition of licences and in its deployment of such technologies.
There can be no assurance that common standards mobile networks, including the roll out of 3G networks.
The Group expects to continue and specifications will be achieved, that there will be inter-operability across Group and to make significant investments in its mobile networks due to increased usage and the other networks, that technologies will be developed according to anticipated schedules, need to offer new services and greater functionality afforded by new or evolving that they will perform according to expectations or that they will achieve commercial telecommunications technologies.
Accordingly, the rate of the Groups capital acceptance.
The introduction of software and other network components may also be expenditures in future years could remain high or exceed that which it has experienced delayed.
The failure of vendor performance or technology performance to meet the to date.
Groups expectations or the failure of a technology to achieve commercial acceptance could result in additional capital expenditures by the Group or a reduction in profitability.
Please see Business Overview Licences and network infrastructure on pages 14 to 15 for more information on expected expenditure in connection with the roll out of 3G Expected benefits from integration may not be realised.
There can be no assurance that the introduction of new services will proceed The One Vodafone programme represents the Groups principal plan to achieve according to anticipated schedules or that the level of demand for new services will integration across the Groups operating companies, particularly in Europe, and is justify the cost of setting up and providing new services.
Failure or a delay in the designed to maximise the benefits of Vodafones scale and scope.
The programme is completion of networks and the launch of new services, or increases in the associated premised on six core initiatives, further details of which can be found on pages 18 to 19. costs, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups operations.
The Group has previously stated publicly that it expects to realise operational revenue benefits by the year ending 31 March 2008.
These expected benefits have been The Group may experience a decline in revenue or profitability formulated by management on the assumption that all of the core initiatives which notwithstanding its efforts to increase revenue from the comprise the One Vodafone programme generate the results anticipated and that the Group is able to take advantage of its size and exploit the associated economies of scale introduction of new services.
Management considers these targeted revenue enhancements As part of its strategy to increase usage of its networks, the Group will continue to offer set out on pages 18 to 19 to be achievable, although no assurance can be given that the new services to its existing customers and seek to increase non-voice service revenue as full extent of the anticipated benefits of the One Vodafone programme will be realised.
a percentage of total service revenue.
However, the Group may not be able to introduce In addition, the ability to deliver tangible business benefits from the convergence of the commercially these new services, or may experience significant delays due to problems Groups IT systems could be compromised by the technical complexity of such a process such as the availability of new mobile handsets or higher than anticipated prices of new or other difficulties associated with converging multiple systems architectures.
In addition, even if these services are introduced in accordance with expected time schedules, there is no assurance that revenue from such services will increase ARPU or maintain profit margins.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 43 Performance Risk Factors, Trends and Outlook continued The Groups business and its ability to retain customers and Development of and demand for data services Since the Groups introduction of data service offerings, revenue from these services has attract new customers may be impaired by actual or perceived increased each year, although there can be no assurance that this will continue to be health risks associated with the transmission of radiowaves the case.
With continued growth in the use of data services as more customers utilise 3G from mobile telephones, transmitters and associated services, including video calling and full track music downloads, the Vodafone Mobile equipment.
Connect data card, new business focused offerings and the recent launch of 3G Concerns have been expressed in some countries where the Group operates that the broadband, the Group expects continued growth in non-messaging data service revenue electromagnetic signals emitted by mobile telephone handsets and base stations may and for this revenue to increase as a percentage of total service revenue over time.
pose health risks at exposure levels below existing guideline levels and may interfere with the operation of electronic equipment.
In addition, as described under the heading Benefits of regional scale and scope Legal Proceedings in note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, several mobile As the worlds leading international mobile telecommunications company, the Group is industry participants, including the Company and Verizon Wireless, have had lawsuits able to benefit from its regional scale and scope.
The One Vodafone initiatives see filed against them alleging various health consequences as a result of mobile phone pages 18 to 19 are targeted at maximising the future value of these benefits.
While the Company is not aware that such health risks have been substantiated, there can be no assurance that the actual, or perceived, risks associated with radiowave transmission will not impair its ability to retain customers and Impact of convergence and disruptive technologies attract new customers, reduce mobile telecommunications usage or result in further The emergence of new technologies, which enable core and radio access networks to be litigation.
In such event, because of the Groups strategic focus on mobile increasingly based on internet protocols, is likely to provide the Group with opportunities telecommunications, its business and results of operations may be more adversely to reduce costs and target the replacement of customers fixed line phone services.
affected than those of other companies in the telecommunications sector.
However, they will also provide opportunities for new competitors to enter the telecommunications services market.
Vodafone believes it is well placed to take advantage of these opportunities, as demonstrated by the launch of Vodafone Zuhause in Germany.
Trend Information The growth in the mobile telecommunications industry in terms of customers, revenue Depreciation expense and cash flows has been substantial over the past decade.
Vodafone believes that the Depreciation expense is driven largely by capital expenditure on building and upgrading mobile industry will continue to experience growth, although as the markets in which the Groups networks.
Capital expenditure on network equipment has increased in the Group operates mature, the rate of growth will depend on the demand for enhanced recent years with the construction of 3G networks.
As network equipment generally has voice and data products and services and the amount of voice and data traffic moving an expected useful life of between three and ten years, the resulting depreciation from fixed networks to mobile networks.
The most significant current trends which are expense in the medium term is likely to be higher than in the current financial year.
The expected to impact the Group are: One Vodafone initiatives are expected to reduce capital expenditure, and hence depreciation, relative to revenue in the longer term.
Increasing penetration rates and competition between network operators for customers Seasonality For the Groups operations which operate in less penetrated markets, the Group expects The Groups financial results and cash flows have not, historically, been subject to customer growth to be the principal source of revenue growth.
Gaining new customers significant seasonal trends between the first and second half of the financial year, depends on many factors, including network coverage and quality, customer although there are a number of offsetting trends.
satisfaction, product offerings and handset range but a key factor is often the pricing of handsets and tariffs.
In general, as penetration rates rise in a market, competition Traditionally, the Christmas period sees a higher volume of customer connections, intensifies as operators invest more in retaining their existing customers whilst offering contributing to higher equipment and connection revenue in the second half of the incentives to potential new customers.
These competitive pressures, along with new financial year.
Ongoing airtime revenue also demonstrates signs of seasonality, with mobile users who generally spend less than existing users, exert a downward pressure on revenue generally lower during February, which is a shorter than average month, and ARPU and result in increased acquisition and retention costs.
The Group anticipates that revenue from roaming charges higher during the summer months as a result of this trend will continue, though it will endeavour to offset the impact by usage increased travel by customers.
stimulation campaigns, new product offerings and leveraging the Groups scale and scope.
There is no assurance that these trends will continue in the future.
For additional considerations related to these trends, please see Risk Factors in this section.
In markets with high penetration rates, the Group expects usage stimulation and new products and services to be the main drivers of revenue growth.
Building on the success of recent campaigns in many of the Groups markets, bundled offerings are expected to Outlook expand to provide better value to customers and encourage increased use of the The measures presented in the Groups outlook have been derived from amounts Groups services.
Such stimulation initiatives are expected to increase ARPU in the calculated in accordance with IFRS but are not themselves IFRS measures.
Further medium and longer term as higher usage more than offsets the reduced average disclosures are provided in Non-GAAP Information on pages 47 to 48 and below for revenue per minute or per message.
The Group also expects that technology innovation proportionate measures.
will lead to the improved integration of PCs and laptops with mobile services and provide opportunities for the Group to expand its product offering, resulting in a larger 2006 financial year market for its services.
The following sets out the previously disclosed outlooks provided by the Group in respect of the 2006 financial year and the Groups actual performance: A number of national regulators are considering allocating additional spectrum or offering new licences for the provision of mobile telecommunications services.
If the Proportionate Proportionate additional spectrum or new licences are acquired by new or existing competitors, the mobile revenue mobile EBITDA margin 1 1 competitive pressures in the local market may increase.
organic growth organic growth Outlooks provided for the 2006 financial year: Impact of new competitors 16 November 2004 High single digit growth Broadly stable New service providers, or MVNOs, in a number of markets in which the Group operates 24 May 2005 6% to 9% Flat to 1 percentage are increasing the competitive pressures in certain market segments with low cost point lower offerings.
Certain national regulators require, or have stated their intention to require, network operators to provide network access to such service providers.
The Group 15 November 2005 Middle of the Lower end of flat to expects that in markets in which new service providers have a significant competitive 6% to 9% range 1 percentage point lower impact, ARPU is likely to reduce and this competition may result in the need for the 2 17 March 2006 8% to 9% Higher end of flat to Group to invest further amounts in customer retention.
1 percentage point lower 2 Actual performance 9.0% 0.3 percentage points lower Downward pressure on termination rates from regulatory action Notes: In recent years, action by NRAs has led to reductions in the income the Group receives 1 Assumes constant exchange rates and excludes the impact of business acquisitions and disposals for the financial measures and adjusted to reflect like-for-like ownership levels in both years.
for terminating calls from fixed or other mobile networks and, similarly, reductions in the 2 Excludes discontinued operations.
cost charged by other operators for connecting a call on their fixed or mobile network.
Vodafone expects such regulatory pressure to persist for the foreseeable future.
44 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 On 17 March 2006, the Group announced its intention to dispose of its operations in Reconciliations of proportionate mobile revenue and EBITDA margin, and their Japan.
As a result, the Group updated its outlook for the 2006 financial year to reflect the respective reported growth rates in the 2006 financial year, to the closest equivalent results of Japan being recognised within discontinued operations.
There was no GAAP measures are as follows: underlying change to the outlook provided on 15 November 2005.
Reported 2006 2005 growth m m % 2007 financial year The Group continues to expect organic growth in proportionate mobile revenue to be in Proportionate revenue 41,355 36,859 the range of 5% to 6.5%, lower than the 2006 financial year, reflecting the increasingly Mobile telecommunications 40,217 36,034 11.6 intense competitive environment, continued regulatory reductions in termination rates Other operations 1,275 1,094 and the one off beneficial impact from the introduction of mobile to mobile termination rates in France in the 2006 financial year.
Less: Inter-segment revenue 137 269 Minority share in subsidiary undertakings 666 465 Proportionate mobile EBITDA margins are expected to be around 1 percentage point lower than the 2006 financial year on an organic basis, with the impact of pricing Group share in associated undertakings pressures, additional customer investment and changes in termination rates offsetting and trade investments 12,671 10,646 initiatives to drive further cost efficiencies, excluding the impact of any one off business Statutory revenue GAAP measure 29,350 26,678 10.0 restructuring costs.
Proportionate EBITDA 16,380 14,761 Group capitalised fixed asset additions are expected to be in the range of 4.2 billion to Mobile telecommunications 16,186 14,627 4.6 billion, which is higher than the 2006 financial year due to the effect of recently completed acquisitions and disposals and the Groups rollout of HSDPA.
Other operations 194 134 Minority share in subsidiary undertakings 224 141 Free cash flow is expected to be in the range of 4.0 billion to 4.5 billion after an Group share in associated undertakings estimated 1.2 billion of tax payments, including associated interest, in respect of the and trade investments 4,838 4,162 potential unfavourable resolution of a number of long standing tax issues.
The Group currently forecasts a further significant increase in cash tax and associated interest Depreciation and amortisation 4,778 4,367 payments in the 2008 financial year, including a potentially material amount related to Share of results in associated the CFC litigation which could be paid should the litigation be resolved unfavourably in undertakings 2,428 1,980 that year.
Impairment losses 23,515 475 In order to simplify its financial reporting and improve understanding of its results, the Other income and expense 15 Group will be moving to a single basis of statutory reporting and will no longer provide proportionate financial information with effect from the 2008 financial year.
The Groups Operating loss profit GAAP measure 14,084 7,878 outlook statement will also change to reflect only statutory financial measures.
In Proportionate mobile EBITDA margin 40.2% 40.6% 0.4 % addition, starting with the outlook for the 2008 financial year, the Group will no longer provide an initial outlook for the following financial year with its interim results in November.
The outlook will only be provided with the preliminary results of the Organic growth rates in proportionate mobile revenue and EBITDA margin in the 2006 preceding financial year in May.
financial year are reconciled to reported growth rates as follows: EBITDA The section entitled Business Overview Global Services One Vodafone on pages 18 Revenue margin to 19 provides additional outlook statements in relation to the expected future benefits Percentage of One Vodafone initiatives on cash flow, capital expenditure and operating expenditure.
% points Reported growth 11.6 0.4 Impact of acquisitions and disposals 1.5 0.1 Proportionate measures Proportionate presentation is not a measure recognised under IFRS and is not intended Impact of foreign exchange movements 1.1 to replace the full year results prepared in accordance with IFRS.
However, since Organic growth 9.0 0.3 significant entities in which the Group has an interest are not consolidated, proportionate information is provided as supplemental data to facilitate a more detailed understanding and assessment of the full year results prepared in accordance with IFRS.
IFRS requires consolidation of entities which the Group has the power to control and allows either proportionate consolidation or equity accounting for joint ventures.
IFRS also requires equity accounting for interests in which the Group has significant influence but not a controlling interest.
The proportionate presentation, below, is a pro rata consolidation, which reflects the Groups share of revenue and expenses in entities, both consolidated and unconsolidated, in which the Group has an ownership interest.
Proportionate results are calculated by multiplying the Groups ownership interest in each entity by each entitys results.
Proportionate presentation of financial information differs in material respects to the proportionate consolidation adopted by the Group under IFRS for its joint ventures.
Proportionate information includes results from the Groups equity accounted investments and other investments.
The Group may not have control over the revenue, expenses or cash flows of these investments and may only be entitled to cash from dividends received from these entities.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 45 Performance
