22 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Business Overview & Strategy | Principal Risks and Uncertainties The risks set out below represent some of the principal uncertainties and trends which exist operating costs are spread across several in Xstratas business and which may have an impact on our ability to execute our strategy different countries and currencies.
Xstratas risk management policy is available from our website.
Fluctuations in exchange rates, in The following risk information is not intended to be a comprehensive overview of risks particular, movements in the Australian inherent in Xstratas business.
dollar, Canadian dollar and South African Rand against the US dollar, may have a material impact on Xstratas financial Commodity prices results.
The impacts of currency exchange Xstratas revenue and earnings are rate fluctuations on Group EBIT, together dependent on prevailing prices for the with average exchange rates, are set out commodities we produce.
Commodity in the Financial Review.
prices are determined by the supply of and demand for raw materials, and are closely We manage this risk through maintaining linked to global economic growth.
North a diversified portfolio of assets across America, Asia and Europe are particularly several different currencies.
From time important markets for Xstrata, accounting to time we may also hedge a portion of for almost 90% of 2006 revenues on a our currency exposures and requirement, statutory basis.
Xstrata produces and sells to try to limit any adverse effect of both exchange-traded commodities and exchange rate fluctuations.
Foreign commodities where prices are negotiated on currency hedging information is provided longer-term contracts.
Commodity prices for in the Financial Review.
all products, and particularly for exchangetraded commodities, may fluctuate widely Integration of acquisitions Concentrator Technicians, Colin Jensen and and may have a material impact on financial Xstrata has grown primarily through the Vic Kandiah, between shifts at Ernest Henry copper mine, Australia results.
The impact on Group earnings EBIT successful completion of a number of of movements in the price of each of large-scale and smaller acquisitions and Xstratas commodities is set out in the EBIT through the subsequent improvements Sensitivities table in the Financial Review.
made in the performance of businesses Commentary on the trends in each of acquired.
Acquisitions and investments Xstratas commodity markets is provided in in joint ventures will continue to be an the Markets section of this report.
important part of our strategy and involve a number of risks, including the risk that We manage the risk of commodity price businesses acquired are not integrated fluctuations through maintaining a effectively or that anticipated cost savings diversified portfolio of commodities and or synergies are not realised.
typically do not implement large-scale strategic hedging or price management Over the past five years, we have developed initiatives.
We also aim to reduce costs on significant capability and a strong track a continuous basis and maintain low-cost, record in effectively integrating large-scale efficient operations, optimising our and smaller acquisitions and investments portfolio and returns throughout the into Xstratas corporate structure.
In each commodity price cycle.
case, acquisitions have been quickly and effectively integrated, realising operational, Currency exchange rates financial and strategic improvements and Xstratas products are generally sold in greater than expected cost savings or US dollars, while our operations and synergy benefits.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 23 Project development Continued robust demand for mining products has resulted in significant inflation in the cost of labour, fuel, raw materials and other key mining industry inputs, together with increased lead order times for key items and equipment.
As a result, the delivery of major projects on time and within budget is increasingly challenging.
Through the acquisitions made in 2006, Xstrata has a significantly enhanced pipeline of growth projects across a number of countries.
Xstratas commodity businesses have an excellent track record of delivering major capital growth projects on time and on budget, including the successful commissioning of five major growth actions which may adversely affect Progressive rehabilitation taking place at Newlands coal mine, Australia projects in 2006 in a very challenging cost Xstratas financial position.
In addition, Xstratas existing costs, which are generally estimated and capabilities have been complemented and provided for over the life of operations broadened through the retention of a and based on the best information significant pool of project management available, may subsequently increase, expertise from the former Falconbridge impacting on Group earnings.
Cost control remains a key of regulations or non-compliance with consideration for any project development.
Xstratas own best practice standards in health, safety and environmental Health, safety and environment performance and community relations Xstratas operations are subject to may damage our reputation and, as a extensive health, safety and environmental result, our licence to operate.
regulations and legislation, community expectations and to the best practice The most significant health risk facing standards set out in our Sustainable the Group is the impact of HIV and AIDS Development framework of policies and on Xstratas South African workforce.
Our commitment to the We have implemented a comprehensive principles of sustainable development, voluntary testing, counselling and which incorporates environmental, treatment programme across our SA economic and social performance, is an operations.
Further information is integral part of our operating philosophy.
provided in the Sustainable Development section on page 96 to 100.
New or amended environmental, health and safety legislation or regulations may Every managed operation is independently result in increased operating costs or, audited through the Xstrata HSEC in the event of non-compliance, the Assurance Audits on a regular basis, to possibility of fines, penalties or other provide assurance to the Board that our 24 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Business Overview & Strategy As the worlds largest producer of export thermal coal, Xstrata is playing a leading role in actively investing in research and development projects to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the use of coal in power generation, together with other coal producers, governments, scientific and academic organisations.
Demand for coal is expected to be supported by forecast significant increases in global demand for energy, particularly in developing countries, and by coals relative cost position, availability and security of supply.
However, any material decline in the use of coal as a power source as a result of carbon taxes, emissions trading or similar legislation may have a material adverse impact on Xstratas Operator Pat Kopittke at the anode scrap Climate change and energy financial position.
machine control panel, Townsville copper Xstrata operates in a number of refinery, Australia jurisdictions in which regulations or laws Political and community have been introduced to limit or reduce Xstrata operates in a wide range of greenhouse gas emissions.
While it is countries, including in some countries that impossible to quantify the impact of the may be considered to be, or may become Group HSEC standards are being met or Kyoto Protocol and related legislation politically or socially destabilised.
Within 100 days of acquiring and regulation at this time, the likely risks include changes in laws, taxes or Falconbridge, rapid assessments had been effect will be to increase costs for fossil royalties, expropriation of assets, currency completed of every Falconbridge site, fuels, electricity and transportation, restrict restrictions or renegotiation of or changes identifying areas of underperformance industrial emissions, impose added costs to mining leases and permits.
Similarly, and where additional investment is for emissions in excess of permitted levels communities in certain regions may oppose required.
A key priority for 2007 will be and increase costs for monitoring, mining activities for various reasons.
Any of to implement systems and improve the reporting and accounting.
these factors could have an adverse impact performance of the former Falconbridge on the Groups profitability in a certain operations to a satisfactory level.
A number of Xstratas operations are geographic region or at certain operations.
intensive users of natural gas, electricity, The acquisition of Falconbridge oil and other energy sources.
Significant We perform a thorough risk assessment substantially increased the number of increases in energy costs or restricted on a country-by-country basis when closed sites being managed by Xstrata.
supplies of energy sources due to considering our activities and investments Through the integration process, the climate change legislation or other and regularly review country risk to ensure management of closed sites was reviewed reasons may have a material adverse that political, regulatory and social risks and these sites are now the responsibility impact on the Groups ability to maintain have been properly identified and are of the respective commodity business production and or contain operating costs.
We aim to management teams, encouraging a more A significant proportion of the Groups work closely in partnership with local integrated approach to rehabilitation and costs relate to energy consumption and communities for mutual benefits, earning closure planning and management.
programmes are in place across Xstratas and maintaining a social licence to operate.
operations to reduce energy intensity and We further manage this risk through achieve cost savings.
maintaining a broad geographic spread Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 25 of assets, ensuring that political risk is Operational risks and reserves spread across a number of territories.
and resources Xstratas operations may be impacted by In South Africa, the Mineral and Petroleum a number of circumstances including Resources Development Act MPRDA natural disasters, unexpected geological and Empowerment Charter sets out the or technical difficulties, labour disruptions, requirement for all existing prospecting environmental or safety incidents, causing and mining rights to be converted into new increased costs, lower production or the order rights.
To achieve this conversion, suspension of operations.
Exploration or to obtain new order rights for new initiatives and the acquisition of new applications, mining companies must resources may not succeed and existing satisfy a number of criteria.
reserves may not be replaced or increased.
Reserves and resources information also These include the requirement for 26% relies on a number of estimates and of South African mining assets to be assumptions which, if materially inaccurate, controlled by historically disadvantaged could impact on our financial position and South Africans by 2014, and other asset values.
requirements which aim to achieve broad-based black economic empowerment Our strategy of near-mine exploration in the industry and more general social and partnering with juniors has resulted upliftment of previously disadvantaged in a number of resource extensions in persons.
If mining companies cannot 2006.
Operational risks are identified and fulfil these criteria or provide satisfactory managed through Xsratas comprehensive undertakings, existing rights may become risk management programme.
invalid, potentially having a material adverse impact on operations in Demanufacturing of a cathode ray tube in a recycling facility South Africa.
To date, Xstrata is the only major mining company to have satisfied our ownership requirements under the MPRDA.
Our South African businesses have entered into partnerships with African Rainbow Minerals ARM, the Bakwena Ba Mogopa Community, Kagiso Trust Investments and Merafe Resources to facilitate ownership and management participation in our operations.
Good progress has also been made in a number of other areas, including in increasing the proportion of procurement from black economic companies, helping to establish small and medium black-controlled companies and increasing the proportion of black and female managers within the business.
