Operating and Financial Review 34 Risk Forward-looking information In August 2004 the Office of Fair Trading OFT Our business could be adversely affected by The discussions regarding financial information announced a review of these undertakings.
In our reliance on, and our extension of credit to, in this Operating and Financial Review should November 2004 the OFT announced this small and medium-sized businesses.
A be read in conjunction with the audited review would take the form of a market study significant part of our revenue comes from financial statements.
The discussions contain under the terms of the Enterprise Act.
At the selling advertising to small and medium-sized forward-looking statements that appear in a conclusion of their study in April 2005, the OFT businesses.
These types of businesses tend to number of places and include statements referred what it defined as classified directory have few financial resources and it is normal regarding our intentions, beliefs or current advertising services, to the Competition and necessary business practice for us to offer expectations concerning, among other things, Commission for investigation.
The possible credit terms to many of them.
However, failure our results of operations, revenue, financial outcomes of the investigation include, a rates for small and medium-sized businesses condition, liquidity, growth, strategies, new relaxation of the current price cap, no change tend to be higher than for large businesses, a products, the level of new directory launches in the price cap, a tightened price cap, or factor that could have a significant impact on and the markets in which we operate.
Readers other measures to restrict our ability to grow bad debt levels and on the number of are cautioned that any such forward-looking revenues in the UK.
advertisers renewing their advertising statements are not guarantees of future each year.
Full collection of overdue performance and involve risks and Our results may vary from quarter to quarter accounts can take longer than for larger uncertainties.
Actual results may differ and may not be indicative of our results for the businesses.
In addition, the levels of customer materially from those in the forward-looking full year.
We recognise the revenue and the churn and bad debts in the US are higher statements as a result of various factors, some costs directly related to sales, production, than in the UK.
of which are set out below.
printing and distribution from advertisement sales for a printed directory edition when we Increased paper prices could have a material Operational risk factors have completed delivery of that directory adverse effect on our business.
Paper is our Our regulatory environment restricts our edition.
Because the number and type of single largest raw material expense.
In the revenue growth in the United Kingdom.
In the directories are not evenly distributed during 2006 financial year, paper costs were 2006 financial year, 37% of the Groups the year or published in the same quarter equivalent to 6% of group revenue and revenue was affected by a price cap, as every year, our revenue and profits do not represented 10% of UK costs of sales and 15% compared to 46% during the 2005 financial arise evenly over the year.
For example, during of US cost of sales.
In the past, paper prices year.
Currently, the prices we may charge for our 2006 financial year the four financial have fluctuated significantly.
For example, advertisements in Yellow Pages, our printed quarters accounted for, respectively, 19%, during the past five years, the prices we have consumer classified directory in the UK are 25%, 25% and 31% of group revenue.
had to pay in the UK have fluctuated by an regulated by undertakings we have given to Different directories may grow at different effective 9.7%.
If paper prices had changed the UK Secretary of State for Trade and rates, such that growth may not be evenly by 10% during the 2006 financial year we Industry.
These undertakings limit any annual distributed between quarters.
We sometimes estimate there would have been an impact of price increase to a percentage equal to the have to rephase our timing of distributions into approximately 10 million on our Group official UK Retail Price Index RPI minus six an earlier or later period for operational operating profit.
We try to limit our exposure percentage points.
This means that our prices reasons, such as when we rescope directories to market fluctuations through contracts and for these advertisements have to be reduced or integrate acquisitions.
Finally, due to timing pricing arrangements with our suppliers in the in each year where the inflation rate is less differences among the recognition of revenue UK and the US.
Our current arrangements in than 6%.
and costs, the payment of costs and invoicing the UK expire in March 2009 and in the US our advertisers, operating profit, EBITDA and between 2006 and 2009.
It is always possible, other financial indicators generally relied on however, that we will not be able to renew by investors to evaluate a companys financial these arrangements on satisfactory terms, if at performance may not, in our case, reflect all.
Failure to agree satisfactory terms or failure actual cash received or expended during a of any of our major suppliers to deliver, could given period.
force us to buy some or all of our paper in the spot market, at potentially higher prices, until new arrangements are put in place.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 35 If we cannot expand through acquisitions and If we lose the services of our key executive Our exposure to defamation and privacy integrate our acquisitions and new directory officers, we may not succeed in implementing claims could have a material effect on our introductions successfully, our ability to expand our business strategy.
Our Chief Executive operating results or financial condition.
We use our business could be adversely affected.
Officer and certain other senior managers are personal data therefore we are exposed to the Material acquisitions by us could have a key to the successful implementation of our risk of defamation and breach of privacy material adverse effect on our business.
We business strategy in the near to medium term.
claims relating to our directories business as have expanded in the United States both by Our executive and senior managers have well as methods of collection, processing and buying a number of classified directory extensive experience and knowledge of our use of personal data.
The subjects of our data publishers and by introducing new directories.
The loss of their and users of data collected and processed by As part of our strategy, we intend to continue services could have an adverse effect on our us could have claims against us if our data to evaluate potential acquisitions and ability to implement our business strategy.
were found to be inaccurate, or if personal directory launches.
New acquisitions and new data stored by us were improperly accessed directory launches require the attention of our The loss of important intellectual property and disseminated by unauthorised persons.
management and the use of other resources.
rights could adversely affect our We have not had any material claims relating We cannot assure you that we will be able to competitiveness.
Some of our trademarks and to either defamation or breach of privacy.
acquire, integrate or profitably manage intellectual property rights, such as our additional classified directory publishers or Yellow Pages brand name in the UK and our If we cannot adapt our business to launch new directories without substantial Yellow Book brand name in the US, are technological change, we may be unable to costs, or problems.
In addition, we cannot important to our business.
We rely upon a maintain our competitive position.
At present assure you that any companies acquired or combination of copyright and trademark laws, almost all of our revenue comes from our directories launched will be profitable at the contractual arrangements and licensing printed classified directories.
However, usage time of their acquisition or launch, or that they agreements to establish and protect these of products and services based on the internet will achieve levels of profitability that will rights.
From time to time we need to bring and other technologies may cause our justify the investment we made in them.
We lawsuits against third parties in order to revenue from printed classified directories to may seek to expand into geographic areas protect our rights.
Similarly, from time to time, decline.
If we fail to anticipate or to respond where we currently have no operations and we could face legal proceedings where third adequately to changes in technology and where we may encounter cultural differences.
We cannot be user preferences by enhancing our existing We cannot assure you that in the case of sure that any legal action will be decided in internet-based products or by developing and acquisitions we will successfully overcome our favour.
As the internet continues to grow, marketing new products and services, we may disparities between our corporate strategies it may prove more difficult and expensive to not be able to replace this revenue or and culture and those of the businesses we protect our trademarks, such as Yell.
com, from maintain our competitive position.
In addition, acquire in the future.
In addition, we expect domain name infringement or to prevent the growing use of internet-based and other to face more competition for new acquisitions.
others from using internet domain names that technologically advanced products and This competition may come from the Regional associate their business with ours.
Although we services may generate increased competition Bell Operating Companies in the US, recently are not aware of any material infringements of from new and existing providers of services divested directory publishing businesses and any trademark rights that are significant to our similar to ours.
smaller independent publishers with business, any lawsuits, regardless of their aggressive growth strategies.
outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results.
In addition, we do not have rights to the Yellow Pages brand name, or its locallanguage equivalent, in any countries in which we might operate other than in the UK and some of the former and current British territories overseas.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 36 Our reliance on technology could have a Additional operational risk factors If Telefnica were to cease the supply of material adverse impact on our business.
if we complete the TPI acquisition subscriber data to TPI, this could impede TPIs In common with most modern businesses, our The integration of TPI may not realise all the competitiveness.
Telefnica is currently an business activities rely to a significant degree anticipated benefits.
The integration of TPI will important supplier of data relating to business on the efficient and uninterrupted operation present significant challenges that may result subscribers for TPIs Yellow Pages activities.
of our computer and communications systems in the business not operating as effectively as Were Telefnica to cease in its supply of data and those of third parties.
Any failure of expected or in the failure to achieve some or under existing agreements, TPI may have current or new systems could impair our all of the anticipated benefits of the difficulty in finding an adequate alternative collection, processing or storage of data and acquisition either at all or when currently supplier and this could affect its the day-to-day management of our business.
The benefits and synergies competitiveness.
We have taken precautions to limit our expected to result from the combination of TPI exposure to the risk of material disruption to and Yell will depend in part on whether to the Financial risk factors our systems, but we cannot assure you that extent planned, the operations of TPI can be Our substantial leverage could adversely affect we can avoid disruption from every integrated in a timely and efficient manner our financial wellbeing.
At 31 March 2006, we possible disaster.
with those of Yell and Yell is able to refocus had total debt of 2,033.3 million.
We expect TPIs business on the core print and online an increase in total debt and leverage if we Our dependence on three principal suppliers directory operations, simplify TPIs activities and complete the purchase of TPI in July 2006.
We could lead to material adverse consequences transfer Yells best practices to TPI.
Yell may face expect that, following completion of the for our business.
In the UK we have several significant challenges in consolidating TPIs acquisition of TPI, our total debt will be long-term contracts with RR Donnelley, for functions with those of Yell, and integrating the approximately 4,000 million and that we will printing and binding our classified directories, organisations, procedures and operations of continue to maintain considerable debt for the and with Pindar Set Ltd. for our pre-press TPI within the Yell Group.
This integration may foreseeable future.
Our leverage poses the risk needs, including preparing artwork and be complex and time-consuming, and to our shareholders that: paginating the directories.
In the US, we management may have to dedicate A significant portion of our cash flow from depend on Pindar Set Ltd. for substantially all substantial time and resources to it.
These our operations will have to be dedicated of our pre-press needs and on RR Donnelley efforts could divert managements focus and to servicing our debt and Quebecor Printing, Inc. for substantially all resources from other strategic opportunities Our ability to obtain additional financing of Yellow Books printing needs.
Should these and from day-to-day operational matters for working capital, capital expenditures or suppliers be unable to fulfil their contractual during the integration process.
business opportunities may be impaired obligations, there could be a material adverse We may have a much higher level of debt effect on our business until we find Telefnica competing at end of non-compete than certain of our competitors, which may replacement suppliers.
However, these term could cause a reduction in TPIs market put us at a competitive disadvantage and suppliers have developed Business Continuity share and revenue.
Telefnica has undertaken may make it difficult for us to pursue our Plans which would be implemented in the that, for a period of three years following our business strategy unlikely event of any adverse circumstances completion of the acquisition, neither it nor any Our debt level may render us unable to which would affect the continuation of our member of the Telefnica Group will, in Spain, plan adequately for or react to changing business operations.
Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Peru, Italy and France, market conditions, changes in our business initiate or carry out any activity connected and the industry in which we operate with the business of preparing, editing, Our debt agreements contain significant publishing or distributing white or yellow restrictions limiting our flexibility in how we pages by any medium including internet and may use our financial resources.
No assurance can be restrictions could hinder our ability to carry out given that Telefnica will not compete with us our business.
A breach of the covenants in the printed directories business in the future.
under the financing arrangements could cause all debt under those arrangements to become due.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 37 Market-related risk factors Our future exposure to interest rate fluctuations At 31 March 2006, we had 1,337.6 million Interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect will depend on the amount of variable-rate of borrowings denominated in US dollars net our financial wellbeing.
At 31 March 2006, we indebtedness that we have outstanding and of deferred financing fees.
The following had 1,637.9 million of borrowings, net of the extent of any hedging arrangements that example illustrates the effect that certain deferred financing fees, that accrue interest at we put in place.
changes in foreign exchange rates would variable rates, before taking into account have had in the 2006 financial year.
Interest is payable Foreign exchange rate fluctuations could following discussion of estimated amounts under our senior credit facilities at a variable adversely affect our business, financial generated from the sensitivity analysis is rate.
We could, therefore, be adversely condition or results of operations.
All significant forward-looking and involves risks and affected if interest rates were to rise cash inflows and outflows associated with our uncertainties.
If the amount or mix of long-term significantly.
We have fixed interest on 47.4% operations in the UK are denominated in borrowings is different, then the following of the indebtedness under our bank credit pounds sterling, and all significant cash examples may not be indicative of the effects facilities using interest rate swaps over the inflows and outflows associated with our of changing exchange rates and interest rates.
period to March 2008, with a review of this operations in the US are denominated in US strategy on a quarterly basis.
Following completion of the acquisition If the average exchange rate of the US dollar with the fixed rate senior notes, we fixed of TPI, all significant cash inflows and outflows as measured against the pound sterling had our interest rates on approximately 56.2% associated with our operations in Spain and been 10% higher or lower, with no change of our total gross debt at 31 March 2006.
Italy will be denominated in euros.
However, in variable rates of interest, then the interest At 31 March 2006, we had 7.9 million net our financial statements are presented in payable in the 2006 financial year would gains on interest rate swaps that have been pounds sterling, and changes in the exchange have been approximately 4.6 million lower recognised in the Statement of Recognised rate between the US dollar and pounds or 5.7 million higher, respectively.
sterling and the euro and pounds sterling will affect the translation of the results of our Our exposure to currency fluctuations will The following example illustrates the effect that operations into pounds sterling.
depend on the mix of foreign currency and certain changes in interest rates would have The composition of our debt in 2006 partially pounds sterling-denominated indebtedness had in the 2006 financial year.
The following hedged exchange rate fluctuations, because and the extent of any hedging arrangements.
discussion of estimated amounts generated 66% of our debt and 62% of our net interest from the sensitivity analysis is forward-looking expense were denominated in US dollars.
and involves risks and uncertainties.
If the If the effective US dollar to pounds sterling amount or mix of long-term borrowings is exchange rate in 2006 had been 10% higher different, then the following examples may not or lower, then basic earnings per share would be indicative of the effects of changing have been 3.0% lower or 3.6% higher, exchange rates and interest rates.
We do not currently intend to use derivative instruments to hedge any foreign If the variable interest rates had been a full exchange translation rate risk relating to percentage point higher or lower with no foreign currency-denominated financial change in foreign exchange rates, then the liabilities, although we will continue to review interest payable with respect to our variablethis practice.
rate indebtedness in the 2006 financial year would have been 8.9 million higher or lower taking into account our hedging arrangements, or 16.9 million higher or lower without taking into account hedging arrangements.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 38 Critical accounting estimates and Our consolidated bad debt expense was Actual net pension obligations may be related risk factors 93 million during the 2006 financial year different than the amounts estimated.
The In general, our accounting policies under IFRS and at 6% of revenue was flat in comparison determination of our obligation and expense as adopted by the European Union are to the previous year.
Bad debts as a for pensions is dependent on the selection of consistent with those generally adopted by percentage of printed directories revenue in assumptions that are used by our actuaries in others operating within the same industry in the US at 8% reflects the growth strategy in calculating such amounts.
Our accounting policies are the US, when compared to the 3% in the UK are described in note 26 of the notes to the summarised in note 1 of the notes to the where the directories are more mature.
financial statements included elsewhere in this financial statements.
annual report and include, amongst others, If our allowance for credit losses as a the rate at which future pension payments are In preparing the consolidated financial percentage of revenue had been 1% higher discounted to the balance sheet date, statements, our management has made its or lower during the year ended 31 March inflation expectations, the expected long-term best estimates and judgements of certain 2006, then profit before tax would have rate of return on plan assets and average amounts included in the financial statements, varied by approximately 16 million.
expected increase in compensation over and giving due consideration to materiality.
Whilst we believe that our We regularly review these estimates and Actual economic lives of other non-current assumptions are appropriate, significant update them when required.
Actual results intangible assets and property, plant and differences in our actual experience or could differ from these estimates.
Unless equipment may be different than our significant changes in our assumptions can otherwise indicated, we do not believe there estimates.
Other non-current intangible assets materially affect the amount of our future is a great likelihood that materially different and property, plant and equipment are longpension obligations, future valuation amounts would be reported related to the lived assets that are amortised over their adjustments in the statement of total accounting policies described below.
Useful lives are based on recognised gains and losses and our future consider the following to be a description of managements estimates of the period over employee expenses.
the most significant estimates, which require which the assets will generate revenue.
If the our management to make subjective and useful economic lives had increased by an The value of the pension obligations at complex judgements, or matters that are average of one year during the year ended 31 March 2006 was calculated on the basis inherently uncertain.
31 March 2006, then our amortisation charge that the real interest rate at the balance sheet would have varied by approximately date was 1.9%, which is the difference Actual bad debts may be different than the 3 million.
If the useful economic lives had between the discount rate and expected estimated allowance for doubtful debts.
decreased by an average of one year, our inflation.
The discount rate and expected Receivables are reduced by an allowance amortisation charge would have varied by inflation are determined by reference to for amounts that may become uncollectible in approximately 8 million.
Our depreciation specific types of debt instruments being traded the future.
We continuously monitor collections charge would have varied by approximately in the open market.
Increasing or decreasing and payments from our customers and 5 million if the useful lives had increased by the assumed real interest rate to 2.0% or1.8% maintain a provision for estimated credit an average of one year, or by approximately per annum, respectively, would decrease or losses based upon our historical experience 13 million if the useful lives had decreased increase the present value of the total pension and any specific customer collection issues by an average of one year.
Long-lived assets obligation by approximately 8.0 million.
The that we have identified.
We have are reviewed for impairment whenever events effect on the market value of assets cannot be demonstrated the ability to make reasonable or changes in circumstances indicate that their estimated because the values of the schemes and reliable estimates of allowances for carrying amount may not be recoverable investments do not always change in line with doubtful accounts based on significant and at the end of the first full year changes in real interest rates.
Whilst such bad debts following acquisition.
have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot Historically, we have not realised large guarantee that we will continue to experience gains or losses on disposals of property, the same credit loss rates that we have in the plant and equipment.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 39 The assumed life expectancy at the date of retirement age 60 for men and women is 26.5 and 29.4 years, respectively.
We believe these assumptions are realistic, based on the latest studies of longevity.
We estimate that a one-year increase in life expectancy would increase our pension deficit by approximately 7.5 million.
The expected average increase in salaries above inflation is 1.5%.
Increasing or decreasing the rate of assumed salary increases to 1.6% or 1.4% per annum, respectively, would increase or decrease our pension deficit by approximately 3 million.
Actual tax benefits and obligations may be different than those we estimated.
The determination of our obligation and expense for taxes requires an interpretation of tax law.
We seek appropriate competent and professional tax advice before making any judgements on tax matters.
Whilst we believe that our judgements are prudent and appropriate, significant differences in our actual experience may materially affect our future tax charges.
We recognise deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from timing differences where we have a taxable benefit or obligation in the future as a result of past events.
We record deferred tax assets to the extent that we believe they are more likely than not to be realised.
Should we determine in the future that we would be able to realise deferred tax assets in excess of our recorded amount or that our liabilities are different than the amounts we recorded, then we would increase or decrease income as appropriate in the period such determination was made.
At 31 March 2006 we believe we have recognised all our potential deferred tax assets.
Actual settlement of the lawsuits in the US may be different than those we accrued.
The determination of our obligation and expense for the exceptional lawsuits was based on managements best estimates after taking into consideration appropriate advice from legal experts.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 40 Directors Reports Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006
