Operating and financial re Operating and financial revie view w Risks and uncertainties This section addresses the principal risks to which the Group is exposed, which could adversely affect the business, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition, turnover, profits, assets, liquidity and capital resources of the Group.
The Group is dependent on defence spending during performance of a fixed-priced contract to the contract by the procuring agency and any reductions in such spending could may reduce the profitability of a fixed-price as appropriations are made by the US adversely affect the Group.
government for future fiscal years.
The The Groups core businesses are primarily termination of one or more of the contracts To mitigate contract-related risks and defence-related, selling products and services for the Groups programmes by the US uncertainties, contracts are managed through directly and indirectly primarily to the US, the government, or the failure of the relevant the application of the Groups mandated UK and Saudi Arabian governments.
In any agencies to obtain expected appropriations Lifecycle Management business process single market, defence spending depends for the Groups programmes, could have a at the operational level and the consistent on a complex mix of political considerations, material adverse effect on the Groups future application of metrics is used to support the budgetary constraints and the ability of the results of operations and financial condition.
review of individual contract performance.
armed forces to meet specific threats and The timing of contracts could materially perform certain missions.
Because of these The Groups largest customer contracts affect the Groups future results of factors, defence spending may be subject are government contracts.
to significant fluctuations from year to year.
In The governments of the United Kingdom, The Groups operating performance and addition, downturns in broad economic trends the United States and the Kingdom of cash flows are dependent, to a significant in the markets in which the Group operates Saudi Arabia are the Groups three largest extent, upon the timing and amounts of may result in decreases in defence purchases end customers.
Any significant disruption or defence contracts and the work performed by the Groups major customers.
deterioration in the relationship with these thereunder.
Because the amounts payable governments and a corresponding reduction Certain parts of the Groups business under these contracts can be substantial, in government contracts would significantly are dependent on a small number of the award or completion of one or more reduce the Groups revenues.
contracts, the timing for manufacturing and companies engaged in the supply of A significant proportion of the Groups delivery of products under these contracts defence-related equipment and services revenue comes from a small number of or the failure to receive anticipated orders to government agencies are subject to large contracts.
These contracts individually could materially affect the Groups operating certain business risks particular to the are typically worth or potentially worth 1bn results and cash flow for the periods affected.
These governments could or more including, but not limited to, those The Group is exposed to risks inherent unilaterally cancel, suspend or amend their contracts in the Programmes business in operating in a global market.
contractors funding under existing contracts group.
The loss, expiration, suspension, BAE Systems is a global company which or eligibility for new contracts potentially at cancellation or termination of any one of conducts business in a number of regions, short notice.
In addition, the Group, as a these contracts, for any reason, could have a including the Middle East, and, as a result, government contractor, is subject to financial material adverse effect on the Groups future assumes certain risks associated with audits and other reviews by some of its results of operations and financial condition.
businesses with a broad geographical reach.
governmental customers with respect to The Group has fixed-price contracts.
In some countries these risks include, and the performance of, and the accounting and A significant portion of the Groups revenues are not limited to, the following: government general practices relating to, government are derived from fixed-price contracts, regulations and administrative policies contracts.
As a result of these audits and although the Group has reduced its exposure could change quickly and restraints on the reviews, costs and prices under these to fixed-priced design and development movement of capital could be imposed: contracts may be subject to adjustment.
activity which is in general more risk governments could expropriate the Groups intensive than fixed-price production activity.
The US government usually appropriates assets: burdensome taxes or tariffs could An inherent risk in these fixed-price contracts funds for a given programme on an annual be introduced: political changes could lead is that actual performance costs may exceed basis, even though contract performance to changes in the business environment in the projected costs on which the fixed may take more than one year.
Consequently, which the Group operates: and economic at the outset of a major programme, the contract prices were based.
The Groups downturns, political instability and civil failure to anticipate technical problems, contract is usually only partially funded and disturbances could disrupt the Groups estimate costs accurately or control costs additional monies are normally committed business activities.
com 31 31 31 31 31 Risks and uncertainties Risks and uncertainties Operating and financial review Risks and uncertainties continued any such events could have a material to the Group on a sole-source basis, they of the deficits may be further affected by adverse effect on the Groups future results may in the future determine to open such a number of factors including declines in programmes to a competitive bidding process.
investment returns and changes in interest of operations and financial condition.
rates, which may require the Group to Government contracts for defence-related Addressing this exposure the Group has increase the amount of cash contributions a balanced portfolio with six home markets products can, in certain countries, be to these schemes, thereby reducing cash awarded on the basis of home country and we are considering opportunities in new available to meet the Groups other preference.
Therefore, other defence high-growth markets.
companies may have an advantage over the The Group is subject to export controls Group for some defence-related contracts on The Group has experienced growth and other restrictions.
the basis of the jurisdiction in which they are through acquisitions.
Anticipated benefits A portion of the Groups sales is derived organised, where the majority of their assets of acquisitions may not be realised.
from the export of its products.
Many are located or where their officers or The Group has experienced growth through of the products the Group designs and directors are located.
acquisitions and continues to pursue manufactures for military or dual use are acquisitions in order to meet its strategic Although the Group expects growth in considered to be of national strategic objectives.
Integrating the operations and US defence spending to slow, the Group interest.
The export of such products personnel of acquired businesses is a believes it is well placed to support the US outside of the jurisdictions in which they are complex process.
The Group may not be Department of Defenses likely emphasis produced may be subject to licensing and able to integrate the operations of acquired on force sustainment and affordable export controls and other restrictions where businesses with its operations rapidly transformation.
The UK defence equipment many of the Groups activities are located.
The budget is expected to continue to be No assurance can be given that the export diversion of the attention of management constrained, having potential implications controls to which the Group is subject will to the integration effort and any difficulties for the sustainability of long-term funding for not become more restrictive, that new encountered in combining operations could future defence technologies and engineering generations of the Groups products will not adversely affect the Groups business.
The capabilities in the UK.
also be subject to similar or more stringent failure to manage such growth, while at the controls, or that political factors or changing In the event that the Group is unable same time maintaining adequate focus on international circumstances will not result in adequately to compete in the markets in which the existing assets of the Group, could have the Group being unable to obtain necessary it operates, the Groups business and results a material adverse effect on the Groups export licences.
Reduced access to export of operations may be adversely affected.
business, future results of operations or markets could have a material adverse effect financial condition.
The Groups strong global market positioning, on the Groups future results of operations balanced portfolio, leading capabilities and Addressing this exposure the Group has an and financial condition.
performance continue to address this risk.
established methodology in place to deliver Addressing this exposure the Group has the effective integration of acquisitions.
The Group is involved in consortia, joint formal systems and policies in place to ventures and equity holdings where it The Group holds a number of regional ensure adherence to regulatory requirements does not have control.
aircraft on its balance sheet and has and to identify any restrictions that could The Group participates in various consortia, provided residual value guarantees in adversely impact the Groups future activities.
joint ventures and equity holdings, exercising respect of certain aircraft sold.
The Groups business is subject to varying and evolving degrees of control.
The Group holds a number of regional significant competition.
While the Group seeks to participate only in aircraft on its balance sheet.
These aircraft Most of the Groups businesses are focused are leased to airline operators.
In addition, ventures in which its interests are aligned with on the defence industry and subject to those of its partners, the risk of disagreement the Group has provided residual value competition from multinational firms with is inherent in any jointly controlled entity, and guarantees RVGs in respect of certain substantial resources and capital and many regional aircraft sold.
particularly in those entities that require the contracts are obtained through a competitive unanimous consent of all members with Values of regional aircraft are impacted by bidding process.
The Groups ability to regard to major decisions, and that specify a wide range of factors including the financial compete for contracts depends to a large restricted rights.
strength of regional aircraft operators, market extent on the effectiveness and innovation of The Group is exposed to funding risks in demands for regional aircraft and the impact of its research and development programmes, its relation to the defined benefits under its economic factors on aircraft operating costs.
ability to offer better programme performance pension schemes.
than its competitors at a lower cost to its Reductions in the valuations of these aircraft The Group operates certain defined benefit customers, and the readiness of its facilities, could result in impairment charges against pension schemes.
At present, in aggregate, equipment and personnel to undertake the the on-balance sheet aircraft or additional there is an actuarial deficit between the value programmes for which it competes.
provisions against the guarantees given.
of projected liabilities of these schemes and Additionally, in some instances, governments the value of the assets they hold.
The Group The Group holds insurance cover through the direct to a single supplier all work for a is making contributions towards deficits Financial Risk Insurance Programme FRIP particular programme, commonly known as a in line with agreements reached with the contracted for in 1998 that makes good sole-source programme.
Although governments respective scheme trustees based on the shortfalls in actual income against estimated have historically awarded certain programmes recommendations of actuaries.
The amount future income used for the valuation of the 32 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 majority of the on-balance sheet aircraft and with sales representatives and marketing Additional risks and uncertainties currently a number of the aircraft where RVGs have advisers are governed by detailed compliance unknown to the Group, or which the Group been granted.
procedures, the application of which is currently deems immaterial, may also have monitored by a dedicated compliance function.
an adverse effect on the financial condition At the end of 2006, the anticipated income or business of the Group.
from the FRIP was 250m on a net present In 2004 the UK Serious Fraud Office and value basis.
This may increase further if Ministry of Defence Police commenced an Further information on how the Group outstanding residual value guarantees are investigation into suspected false accounting manages risk through the activities of the exercised by the airlines or if there are and corruption.
The investigation is wide Audit Committee is included on page 48. further reductions in market lease rates.
ranging and concerns a number of jurisdictions and contractual arrangements.
In 2006, some FRIP reinsurers asserted claims that they were entitled either to In December 2006, the Serious Fraud Office terminate, or to be discharged from, liability discontinued the investigation in so far as it under their reinsurance contracts.
Having related to Saudi Arabia.
The Group continues raised formal arbitration proceedings, to co-operate fully with the investigation.
reinsurers subsequently decided, in January The Group is exposed to volatility in currency 2007, that they would not pursue these exchange rates.
Arbitration proceedings are however The global nature of the Groups business ongoing in relation to various other claims means it is exposed to volatility in currency advanced by reinsurers.
These claims will exchange rates in respect of foreign currency be vigorously defended.
denominated transactions, the translation The Group is subject to risk from a failure of net assets and the translation of income to comply with laws and regulations.
statements of foreign subsidiaries and equity The Groups operations are subject to accounted investments.
The Group is numerous domestic and international exposed to a number of foreign currencies, laws, regulations and restrictions, and the most significant being the US dollar.
non-compliance with these laws, regulations In order to protect itself against currency and restrictions could expose the Group fluctuations, the Groups policy is to hedge all to fines, penalties, suspension or debarment, material firm transactional exposures as well which could have a material adverse effect.
as to manage anticipated economic cash The Group has contracts and operations in flow exposures over the medium term.
The many parts of the world and operates in a Group aims, where possible, to apply hedge highly regulated environment.
The Group is accounting treatment for all derivatives that subject to numerous UK, US and other laws hedge material foreign currency exposures.
and regulations, including, without limitation, The Group does not hedge the translation regulations relating to import-export controls, effect of exchange rate movements on money-laundering, false accounting, antithe income statement or balance sheet bribery and anti-boycott provisions.
From time of overseas subsidiaries and equity to time, the Group is subject to government accounted investments it regards as longinvestigations relating to its operations.
Hedges are, however, Failure by the Group or its sales undertaken in respect of investments that representatives, marketing advisers or are not considered long-term or core to others acting on its behalf to comply with the Group.
these laws and regulations could result The Groups gross debt, after the impact in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities of foreign currency swaps, was 52% 2005 and could result in significant fines 58% denominated in sterling and 48% and penalties and could result in the 2005 42% denominated in US dollars.
suspension or debarment of the Group from government contracts for some period of time or suspension of the Groups export privileges.
Addressing this exposure the Group has mandated policies and procedures to help ensure that employees act with the highest ethical standards and comply with relevant laws and regulations.
In particular, all dealing www.
