Our business Principal risks and risk management The identification, assessment, pursuit and management of opportunities and Investment risk the associated risks is an integral element of activity throughout the Group.
The Groups basic approach is the pursuit of investment opportunities on a limited recourse finance basis in a limited number of sectors where In the pursuit of opportunities the Group is particularly sensitive to the potential it has appropriate experience.
It uses this platform as a basis for moving for importing risk whether by way of winning new contracts, forming joint incrementally into new sectors with appropriate partners.
The degree ventures, acquiring businesses or investment.
Rigorous processes are therefore of leverage associated with such investments reinforces the need for the in place for managing the exposure within a specified opportunity and risk application of a rigorous risk management process drawing on standard management framework that applies to all operating companies and Group operating procedures.
Such activity is conducted by a discrete group functions, as follows: of personnel with extensive experience in the relevant fields of activity.
Bidding risk The consequent delivery risk arising on investment activities is managed The Groups operating companies bid selectively for a large number of and mitigated by the careful selection of delivery and service partners.
contracts each year and a more limited number of concession opportunities.
On a broader related front the Group addresses continually the impact of Tenders and investment appraisals are developed in accordance with the external business environment.
Areas of focus include the following: thorough processes for estimating and risk identification and assessment, with particular attention to new or unique characteristics.
They are subject Changing Government policies and funding priorities to formal review and approval by tender review and investment committees A significant proportion of the Groups revenues flows from contracts founded established at Board, sector or operating company level depending upon upon Government policy and or public funding, both in the UK and overseas.
the value and nature of the contract.
The Group seeks to mitigate the exposure to an adverse change in national policy or funding by broadening incrementally the portfolio of dependency and Delivery risk by diversifying on a measured and controlled basis into other areas of activity.
The delivery of contracts is controlled and managed through the Groups operating structure.
The Groups procedures embrace regular and frequent Customer requirements reviews with an agenda centred on health and safety performance, There has been a continuing and increasing demand from customers issues affecting delivery and the impact on costs to completion and the for the provision of professional services, whether as a discrete contract forecast revenue.
This approach is underpinned by a continuing focus on or as a component in a contract.
The Group has in place its own specialist assurance as to the effectiveness of the relevant controls.
operating company with such skills and is developing further the capabilities in selected operating companies.
Joint venture risk Joint ventures are formed for contracts where the operating company and In addition the emerging trends in risk perception across the Group are the Group believe that to do so will strengthen the quality of the bid and formally monitored and an aggregation review of lower-level risks, to identify prospects of delivering a contract successfully.
Procedures are in place the extent to which further Group-led initiatives are required, is conducted, to ensure that the joint venture partners bring skills, experience and resources for example, to develop risk management capability and mitigation measures.
that complement and add to those provided from within the Group and that In addressing the pursuit and delivery of opportunities, the Group relies on a the service partner risk is mitigated.
series of clear policies, along with associated expectations or controls which Acquisition risk provide a basic operating fabric and culture, that is fundamental to managing Potential acquisitions are identified by the operating companies and subject risks, for example, in respect of staffing, health, safety and environmental to review with Group management who project manage the due diligence matters and financial controls.
by the operating company drawing on its own resources and those from other parts of the Group in order to ensure that the most appropriate personnel with relevant experience and knowledge conduct the detailed due diligence.
Where necessary, specialist external resources are engaged.
Post-acquisition integration is closely managed, drawing on the detailed due diligence material and integration tracker system for each functional activity, with reviews conducted formally at prescribed periods following the acquisition.
41 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006
