46 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Risks and Uncertainties Facing the Business Right Amstelveen, Amsterdam from a joint The Group has established a Risk Management Changes in the market in which we operate Rembrandt Tower.
venture between KPMG and Meijon: Framework to identify and monitor strategic and The property market in which the Group operates is Our investment team based and Credit Suisse Asset operational risks throughout the business.
A Group cyclical and may change for a number of reasons: for in Amsterdam is building a Managements acquisition of reputation for reliable advice the Acanthus office complex, Risk Committee has also been established to regularly example, changes in economic cycles, interest rates, and market knowledge in a Bijlmerdreef 24, in South East review, discuss and challenge material risks identified and supply and demand of property in the market at buoyant commercial climate.
Amsterdam, from ING Real Estate and report findings as necessary to the Board.
Such changes may impact on different for1174m.
Our wholly-owned Irish During the final quarter of 2006 subsidiary, Savills Hamilton Osborne The Committee consists of the Group Chief Executive, areas of our business and we recognise the need to alone, our Amsterdam-based King also advised CFI Property Group Financial Controller and subsidiary Finance respond rapidly to these.
Our geographic and product investment team transacted1904m Management Ltd on the115.3m worth of deals, as demand for new Directors.
Further details of the Groups internal diversification ensures that any downturn in one area acquisition of Herengracht 258-266, office developments increased.
control and risk management can be found on of the property market will not significantly impact on Major transactions included SEB pages 64 and 65. the business overall.
Our research shows that the market Immobiliens acquisition of The is rising, driven by increased Maas Tower in Rotterdam from It is not possible to mitigate fully all risks, but Impact from competitor activities The markets confidence in the corporate sector OVG for1150m, reflecting a gross the principal risks for the Group are as follows: in which we operate are highly competitive and we as the economic climate continues initial yield of 6%.
The property, to remain positive.
This confidence need to ensure that we retain and grow our market which is currently under has led to a growing demand for Recruitment and retention of high calibre staff construction, will be the tallest office share, particularly where our competitors are growing.
high quality offices, causing an The Group recognises that its employees are key tower in the Netherlands and is To guard against this competitive risk, we are increase in prime rents and a rise to the future success of our business.
In a highly developer OVGs largest project to in investment levels, with yields at increasing our geographic diversification, investing date.
It is 165 metres high, with a competitive market it is crucial to retain, reward and a record low of 5.5-6.0%.
total lettable area of 404,144 sq ft in schemes to retain our best people and building develop high calibre employees to ensure they are 37,545 sq m, over 44 floors.
Our clients stand to benefit from our depth of talent.
In addition, succession Tenants include Deloitte, the returns that will be made on AKD, OBR and Q Park.
new office developments and planning ensures we are well placed for long-term Brand and reputational risk Savills is a global brand existing good quality office space, growth.
A summary of our approach is outlined in with a strong reputation in the markets in which it In addition, the team worked on a says Clive Pritchard of Savills.
The number of other significant projects, our People Section on pages 48 and 49. operates.
We recognise that our brand image is vital to economic growth has encouraged including: DIFA Immo-Investments corporate occupiers to increase in maintaining market share and building brand strength acquisition of a 60% stake in the confidence and in some cases in new markets, therefore any harmful events such Rembrandt Tower, Amsterdam from commit to pre-lets at major new insurance company Winterthur as bad publicity could have an adverse impact on developments.
Oppenheims acquisition of a 1250m office development in Our Business Europe Rembrandt Tower Amsterdam, Holland
