BUSINESS REVIEW Risk factors 41 Outlined below is a description of the EXPLORATION AND NEW VENTURES in securing appropriate long-term principal risk factors that may affect BG Groups future gas and oil production commercial agreements, it may be unable BG Groups business.
Not all these factors is highly dependent upon finding, to commercialise its reserves and this may are within the Groups control.
Other acquiring and developing new reserves.
have a material effect on the Groups factors besides those listed below may In general, the rate of production from mediumto long-term cash flow and also adversely affect the Group.
Actions natural gas and oil reservoirs declines as income.
If the Group fails to adopt an being taken by management to mitigate reserves are depleted.
The Group needs to appropriate procurement and project some of these risks are identified where replace these depleted reserves with new management strategy, it may experience appropriate.
The risk factors should be proved reserves cost-effectively and on delays to project schedule and cost.
considered in conjunction with the a consistent basis.
This could be affected Gas-related projects often require a chain cautionary note to shareholders in by a number of factors including: barriers of commercial agreements, frequently relation to forward-looking statements to gaining new exploration acreage: amongst different parties.
Failure to set out on page 153. inaccurate interpretation of geological complete this chain or to apportion risks and engineering data: unexpected appropriately prior to project sanction can PORTFOLIO drilling conditions or equipment failure: leave projects exposed to commercial risks BG Group has a global portfolio of assets and disruptions to the successful that could affect the project economics.
and opportunities across its business implementation of the drilling programme.
Failure to manage this portfolio Principal regulatory risks during the effectively could have a material impact Across the world there is strong demand pre-sanction phase are the negotiation on the Groups business.
The Group of appropriate agreements where required for Exploration and Production resources.
conducts regular reviews of its portfolio Increased demand for drilling rigs, skilled with host governments, and gaining balance, as appropriate, looking at applicable permits, licences or approvals.
personnel, contractors, materials and numerous factors including segmental If the Group is not successful in these supplies may intensify competition for weighting, geographical weighting, regulatory negotiations, it may be unable these limited resources, making economic political risk, and gas oil mix.
Nevertheless, to commercialise its reserves, affecting exploration more difficult.
the Group may still be exposed to risk the Groups mediumto long-term cash factors such as shifts in the demand for LNG is an increasingly important element flow and income.
different hydrocarbon products as sources of the Groups business, and growth in of energy, adverse changes in the business PROJECT DELIVERY this area is dependent upon the level of environment, increased taxes and BG Groups future gas and oil production success it achieves in connecting governmental regulation.
Inability is to a significant extent dependent upon competitively priced gas to high value to leverage its market position and skills the successful completion of development markets.
This could be affected by factors to access upstream reserves can also projects within budget, cost and such as: barriers to the purchase or have material impact on the Groups specifications.
The delivery of these development of LNG projects: strategy in the long-term.
projects is subject to HSSE, technical, environmental, permitting or other commercial, legal, contractor and POLITICAL CLIMATE planning restrictions: and the global economic risks.
Development projects The success of the Group depends in part demand for LNG.
may be delayed or unsuccessful for many upon understanding and managing the PRE-SANCTION reasons, including: cost and time overruns political, economic and market conditions Following the creation of exploration of projects under construction: failure in the many diverse economies around or new venture project opportunities, to comply with legal and regulatory the world in which it does business.
certain activities are performed before requirements: equipment shortages: Specific country risks that could have availability, competence and capability an investment decision or sanction is an effect on BG Groups business and made by management.
These activities of human resources and contractors: reputation include: volatility of national unscheduled outages: mechanical and include commercialisation, feasibility currencies: unexpected changes in local technical difficulties: and gas pipeline studies, concept selection and definition.
laws, regulations and standards: system constraints.
There are a number of risks during the aggressive re-interpretation of existing pre-sanction phases, including engineering, tax laws: regional and governmental Projects may also require the use of commercial and regulatory risks.
instability: government intervention new and advanced technologies, which in licence awards: increased royalty can be expensive to develop, purchase The principal engineering-related risk payments or taxes mandated by and implement and may not function prior to sanction is failure to undertake governments: expropriation of assets: as expected.
adequate front-end engineering design cancellation, variation or breach of work during the pre-sanction phase to OPERATIONS contractual rights: and political enable a sufficiently accurate assessment Following the completion of the project obstacles to key project delivery.
of the project schedule and cost.
Failure development phase and the asset being In addition, some of the countries where to consider the full range of potential brought into operations, BG Groups the Group has a presence may be subject development options and select the most revenues are dependent upon the to certain international sanctions.
suitable concept based on full life cycle performance of its operating facilities.
The Group does not believe that the understanding of the project can expose The integrity of the Groups assets can be enforcement of such sanctions would projects to additional risk and cost.
affected by a number of factors including have a material effect on its financial The principal commercial risks during the performance in respect of its operations unplanned shutdowns and equipment pre-sanction phase are the completion of failure.
Failure to have common, robust or projects in these countries.
However, appropriate long-term commercial systems and processes in place across the the Group cannot predict the agreements or frameworks and the interpretation or the implementation Group may adversely impact plant policy of governments with respect to development of an appropriate availability, production volumes and procurement and project management such sanctions and the consequential ultimately cash flow.
Failure to have impact on the Groups business.
If the Group is not successful good asset integrity and process safety Business review 42 Risk factors continued practices could result in a safety or in proportion to its participating interest The Groups exposure to commodity prices environmental incident.
However, licences also varies according to a number of granted by a state generally require factors, including the mix of production Business activities conducted by the Group Contractors to be jointly and severally and sales.
Management estimates that, are often conducted with Joint Venture liable, which means that the Group may other factors being constant, a US$1.00 partners and some assets are under the be at risk for liabilities to host states if its rise or fall in the Brent oil price would day-to-day management of these partners partners fail to perform their contractual increase or decrease operating profit in and may therefore be subject to risks obligations or deliver their share of the 2007 by around 40 million to 50 million.
that are outside the control of the Group.
The location of some of the Groups Over the medium term, the Groups operations may expose them to natural A PSC will set out the rules governing the financial position could also be indirectly hazards such as hurricanes, flooding and co-operation between the Contractors and affected by commodity prices.
Commodity earthquakes, each of which could the host state.
The Contractors usually price increases can cause supply or materially impact the Groups ability bear the risk of funding the E&P capacity constraints in areas such to deliver its products or services.
as specialist staff, construction or operations, although the state company may participate in the funding of the operations.
This in turn can create Individual segments of the Groups cost pressure on BG Groups operating development.
Under the terms set out in activities are subject to specific operational the PSC, the Contractors recover their and capital costs, which affect ongoing and production risks.
In the E&P segment, financial performance.
costs from the future production revenues failure to adopt the correct reservoir and and, in exchange for the risk well management strategy could adversely The Group does not, as a matter of course, of the investment, enjoy a share of the affect the ultimate reserves recovery from hedge all commodity prices, but may excess production revenues.
the field and, consequently, reduce longhedge certain gas and oil revenue streams term Group profitability and cash flow.
The Group uses forward COMPETITION Failure to manage effectively the global Across the world there is strong commodity contracts, including forward LNG chain, including shipping capacity and derivative and option contracts, competition in the energy sector.
movements, port schedules, lifting and As a global business, BG Group faces to partially offset the exposure of certain delivery timetables and the related impact of its forecast oil and gas revenues to increasing competition from both the of weather conditions, may lead to market National Oil Companies NOCs, which commodity price variations.
In marketing opportunities being missed, penalty its gas supply portfolio, the Group control a substantial percentage of the payments or other factors adversely undertakes commodity hedging and worlds reserves, and the International Oil affecting the Groups financial trading activities.
The fair value of the Companies IOCs.
The successful management Groups commodity derivative contracts make securing access to acreage and of daily supply and demand across the is calculated using forward price curves reserves more challenging.
Groups T&D assets is critical to ensure for the relevant commodity.
The potential The Group also competes with other consumers supplies are secure.
If these change in exposure to fluctuations in forms of energy available to consumers.
risks materialise, the Group may not meet natural gas sales prices is mitigated within Policies and regulations at the its HSSE targets, output levels or unit certain LNG purchase contracts as the gas operating costs.
These factors may have a international level to tackle climate suppliers share price risk with BG Group.
material impact on the Groups reputation, change will increasingly affect the The exposure is further managed using profitability and cash flow.
business environment, presenting new a combination of natural gas futures challenges.
Changes in the usage of COMMERCIAL contracts, financial and physical forwardalternative sources of energy such as based contracts and swap contracts.
E&P operations are typically conducted renewables, liquid bio-fuels, hydroelectric under licences granted to BG Group and EXCHANGE RATE power and nuclear power may have an its partners collectively the Contractors The Groups cash flow, income statement impact on the Groups ability to maintain by the state or national government or by and balance sheet are reported in pounds market position.
Failure to adequately entry into a Production Sharing Contract Sterling and may be significantly affected analyse, understand or respond to the PSC between the Contractors and the by fluctuations in exchange rates.
competitive environment could have an state or national government generally A substantial proportion of the Groups impact on the Groups financial position.
business activity is conducted in US The terms and conditions of the licences COMMODITY PRICES Dollars and the Group holds substantial and PSCs vary from country to country.
BG Groups results are sensitive to crude US Dollar-denominated assets.
The Group oil and natural gas prices, which are Licences give the Contractors the right mitigates its exposure to its holding of US volatile, dependent on shifts in world to explore for, and exploit a discovery of, Dollar-denominated assets by borrowing supply and demand, policies of the hydrocarbon resources whilst bearing the in, or swapping the majority of its borrowing Organization of the Petroleum Exporting risk of, and providing funding for, the into US Dollars.
In general, the Group does Countries OPEC, the prices of other exploration, development and production not hedge US Dollar-denominated hydrocarbon products and the general activities.
The Contractors are in principle transactions, although it may do so for economic and political climate.
In 2006, entitled to production and agree to remit specific transactions, as authorised by the part of the Groups upstream revenues to the state which remains the owner of Finance Committee.
BG Group estimates were partially indexed to international oil the subsoil hydrocarbon resources a that in 2007, other factors being constant, a and hydrocarbon product prices.
The production-based royalty and income tax 10 cent strengthening or weakening in the Groups exposure to short-term changes and, possibly, other taxes that may apply US Dollar against pound Sterling, would in commodity prices is mitigated by the under local tax legislation.
In addition, increase or decrease operating profit by Contractors will enter into an operating predominance of gas in its portfolio and approximately 140 million to 160 million.
agreement among themselves that the use of long-term gas contracts, which The Groups net balance sheet exposure to normally provides for the rights and are not directly or immediately linked to currencies other than the US Dollar or liabilities of each Contractor to be borne short-term changes in commodity prices.
pound Sterling, primarily exposure to the BUSINESS REVIEW 43 Brazilian Real, is managed on a case-bycontracts.
Credit exposures are monitored REGULATION case basis.
The Group mitigates its for individual transaction and BG Groups business activities are exposure to transactions in currencies concentration risk.
Where multiple conducted in many different countries other than pounds Sterling or US Dollars by transactions are undertaken with a and are therefore subject to a broad hedging certain expected cash flows into single counterparty, or group of related range of legislation and regulation.
pounds Sterling or US Dollars.
Subsidiary counterparties, the Group may enter into BG Group faces value erosion if the undertakings that borrow without recourse a netting arrangement to reduce the conditions attached to licences, which to the Group are generally required to Groups exposure to credit risk.
Currently govern operations, are not properly borrow in, or swap borrowing into, their the Group makes wide use of standard managed or delivered.
In addition, future respective functional currency.
International Swaps and Derivative growth of assets may be affected if Association ISDA documentation for FINANCING required regulatory authorisations are financial transactions.
This provides The Groups financing costs may be not obtained.
netting of transactions covered by the significantly affected by interest rate specific ISDA documentation.
For physical The Groups T&D companies mainly volatility.
The Group is also exposed to commodity trading, BG Group seeks to operate under a form of licence or liquidity risks, including risks associated put in place bespoke master netting concession agreement awarded by the with refinancing borrowings as agreements or European Federation of state or national government.
Normally, they mature, the risk that borrowing Energy Traders EFET, North American the tariff that gas customers are charged facilities are not available to meet cash Energy Standards Board NAESB and is determined by the regulator and requirements and the risk that financial National Balancing Point NBP reviewed periodically in line with licence assets cannot readily be converted to cash agreements, as appropriate.
The Group may be without loss of value.
Failure to manage at risk of unfavourable tariff reviews, financing risks could have a material HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY & which may have an impact on T&D impact on the Groups cash flow, balance ENVIRONMENT HSSE income and growth.
A major HSSE incident could result in injury or loss of life, damage to the The Groups LNG and gas marketing The Groups interest rate management environment or destruction of facilities, activities also operate within market policy requires that the interest rate each of which could have a material rules set down by the respective regulator.
obligations of BGEH Borrowers as defined impact on BG Group.
Typically these regulations evolve over on page 33 be substantially floating, and sets limits on the maximum amount of time.
The Group faces value erosion if it BG Group recognises that the protection does not respond to changes in these fixed rate exposure from time to time.
of the health and safety of its employees market rules and ensure compliance.
and others affected by its operations is an The Group manages liquidity risk by essential element in delivering business maintaining adequate committed Many of the countries in which the performance, as are the security of borrowing facilities and holding its Group conducts, and expects to conduct, physical and intellectual assets and the financial assets primarily in short-term, business have recently developed, or are in protection of the natural environment.
highly liquid investments that are readily the process of developing, new regulatory convertible to known amounts of cash.
Policies and measures at the international and legal structures.
These regulatory and Refinancing risk is managed by limiting and national level to tackle climate legal structures, and their interpretation the amount of borrowing that matures change will increasingly affect business and application by administrative within any specific period.
conditions, presenting environmental and agencies, may be specific to a given regulatory risks.
Similarly, measures to market and untested.
BG Group may be CREDIT tackle loss of biodiversity will start to offered the opportunity to help shape BG Group is exposed to credit risks, present risks to gaining access to oil and suitable regulations but with no being the loss that would be recognised gas resources in areas deemed to be guarantee that its voice will be heard.
if counterparties failed to, or were unable biologically sensitive.
to, meet their payment obligations.
These Regulatory frameworks will continue to evolve as markets mature and this will risks may arise in certain agreements in The increased threats from international relation to amounts owed for physical also affect the Group.
terrorism and violent crime could also product sales, the use of derivative interrupt the Groups operations to a Any changes in the regulatory climate in instruments and the investment of material extent.
which the Group operates may potentially surplus cash balances.
The Group is also have a material impact on the Groups INSURANCE exposed to country risk event, causing business.
Failure to meet regulatory A comprehensive insurance programme is non payment of foreign currency requirements may have a material effect maintained to mitigate significant losses, obligations to BG Group.
on the Groups reputation and expose the which, as is consistent with good industry The Group Executive Committee has Group to financial penalties.
practice, includes cover for physical approved a Governance framework for damage, removal of debris, control of STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT credit risk.
Oversight responsibility is wells, re-drill, pollution and employers A number of stakeholders including placed with the Energy Trading and and third-party liabilities.
Nevertheless, employees, investors, governments, Credit Risk Committee ETCRC, some of the major risks involved in BG civil society groups, non-governmental which approves policies for Treasury Groups activities cannot, or may not, organisations and those living in local transactions, trading credit risk and the reasonably and economically be insured.
communities affected by BG Groups credit approval for specific commercial The programme is subject to certain operations have legitimate interests in and investment decisions.
The Groups limits, deductibles, and terms and conditions.
In addition, insurance reputation and or share price could The Group considers each counterpartys suffer due to inappropriate or inadequate financial condition prior to entering into premium costs are subject to changes commercial contracts, trading sales based on the overall loss experience engagement with stakeholders, including, for example: failure to communicate agreements, swaps, futures and options of the insurance markets accessed.
Business review 44 Risk factors continued consistent or co-ordinated messages to to the construction of the Brindisi In February 2007, the Italian Ministry of terminal, see the Directors report, key stakeholders: failure to provide Economic Development issued a notice adequate explanations if performance page 56. convening a new preliminary Conference targets are not met or if performance is of Services a body representing national, The Italian authorities criminal perceived as poor against competitors: regional and local authorities in order investigation is ongoing.
As a result, no and inadequate responses to any crisis to consider whether the original determination can yet be made regarding or a major HSSE incident.
authorisation process for the Brindisi whether BG Groups Italian subsidiaries project was compliant with Italian and PEOPLE RESOURCES and or BG Group and or any of their EC legal requirements relating to BG Groups performance, and its ability respective employees and or directors environmental impact assessments to mitigate those risk factors within its and or consultants may be subject to any and public consultation procedures.
In control, depend on the skills and efforts criminal and or civil actions by courts addition, in March 2007, the European of its employees and management teams.
Nor is it Commission formally asked the Italian Future success will depend to a large possible to predict whether there might government to comment on whether extent on the Groups continued ability to be additional investigations by the Italian the process for granting the original attract, retain, motivate and organise its or other government authorities resulting authorisation complied with these EC law highly skilled and qualified personnel.
from the circumstances surrounding the requirements.
The Italian government has current investigations that could result in If the Group loses the services of key two months to respond.
It is also not possible to people, or is unable to attract and retain may result in the convening of another predict whether the current or any employees with the right capabilities and Conference of Services or other actions by additional government or other experience, it could have a material effect the Italian authorities to consider whether investigations might expand beyond on the Groups business and operations.
to suspend and or revoke the original the scope of the current allegations authorisation and or to require an CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CR either in Italy or in other jurisdictions environmental impact assessment and or BG Group defines CR as the practical where BG Group operates.
public consultation to be carried out.
application of the Groups Business If there is a determination by any BG Group is taking and intends to take Principles see Corporate Responsibility on authority that violations of law have appropriate action to defend its interests.
CR risk occurred, including violations of Italys However, it is uncertain at this time what occurs if any part of the business fails to anti-corruption statute, Legislative the outcome of the Conference of Services implement the Business Principles.
Each or such other action will be and, what Decree No.
231 2001, applicable UK antiof the following risks could affect the corruption legislation or the US Foreign actions if any, the Italian Ministry of Groups ability to deliver projects on time Economic Development or other Corrupt Practices Act, any such authority and within budget: failure to consider may take actions against BG Group and or authorities may take in response to environmental impacts, social that outcome.
its subsidiaries and or their respective consequences and human rights in employees and or directors and or investment decisions, project planning In addition, there are also certain consultants.
These actions could include and operational management: failure longstanding unrelated administrative to identify stakeholder expectations: criminal and civil fines, penalties, the court proceedings associated with the and the ineffective implementation revocation of authorisations or other Brindisi project, adverse results of which of anti-corruption policies.
Injunctive sanctions could could deny BG Group access to the also be imposed which might include Brindisi LNG terminal site pending the BRINDISI LNG TERMINAL INVESTIGATIONS bans on contracting with Italian public outcome of legal appeals.
On 12 February 2007, the Court of Brindisi, entities, or obtaining additional Italy, announced that it was pursuing a Although BG Group continues to target authorisations, licences or concessions criminal investigation against certain first LNG deliveries to the Brindisi or an order preventing BG Italia from current and former employees and terminal in 2010, any of the matters conducting its business, which could consultants of BG Group and BG Italia referred to above might result in a delay result in a shutdown of the Brindisi LNG S. p. A BG Italia, a wholly owned to the start up date, or abandonment, project for time periods ranging from subsidiary of BG Group, as well as against of the project.
three months to two years.
The potential BG Italia itself.
The investigation is in impact of any such injunctive sanctions connection with alleged improper An adverse outcome of the investigation on BG Italias businesses in Italy other inducements, including payments or other matters referred to above than the Brindisi LNG project is unclear to, and promises to award construction could also result in third party claims.
and would depend on the specific terms and other contracts related to the Brindisi Furthermore, any such adverse outcome project to a consortium of companies of any injunctive order that may be could harm BG Groups business and associated with, a public official in order issued.
In addition, BG Group and or reputation and adversely impact the to improperly influence the granting of its subsidiaries could be required to Groups results of operations, cash certain authorisations required to modify their business practices and flows and financial condition.
Moreover, construct and operate the Brindisi LNG compliance programmes.
detecting, investigating and resolving regasification terminal.
BG Group takes such matters could be expensive and The Brindisi LNG terminal site is these allegations extremely seriously and, consume significant time, attention currently seized by the Italian government although no charges have been brought, and resources of BG Group management.
authorities in relation to the criminal BG Group instigated an independent investigation.
BG Group has temporarily Further details of these matters are internal investigation conducted by suspended construction at the site and is contained in the Directors report Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, a New York law actively pursuing the release of the site in significant events subsequent to firm, reporting to the Audit Committee.
31 December 2006 page 56. the Italian courts.
It is not possible at this For a description of the criminal time to predict with any certainty when investigation and BG Groups own internal investigation, and other matters relating the seizure order will be lifted.
