Operating review Risk management 1 page Introduction 68 Governance structure at Group Level 70 Risk responsibilities 71 Risk management 72 Credit risk management 76 Loans and advances to customers 79 Other credit risks 81 Potential credit risk loans 82 Allowances for impairment 83 Market risk management 86 Market risk measurement 87 Trading market risk 87 Other market risks 88 Capital and liquidity management 89 Operational and business risk management 90 Group model policy 91 Taxation risk management 91 Insurance risk management 92 Disclosures about certain trading activities 92 Derivatives 94 Statistical information 95 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 67 Risk management Introduction Barclays approach to risk management moderate volatility in some areas of market risk.
The UK unsecured retail Risk management is a fundamental part of Barclays business activity credit market experienced a continuation of recent trends, arising from and an essential component of its planning process.
This is achieved by a high level of household debt and continued strain on the discretionary keeping risk management at the centre of the executive agenda and cash flow in some parts of the retail customer population.
Higher by building a culture in which risk management is embedded in the interest rates, energy costs and some higher taxation have put strain on everyday management of the business.
Barclays ensures that it has the UK consumer portfolios, which has been exacerbated by increasing functional capability to manage the risk in new and existing businesses, levels of personal bankruptcy and Individual Voluntary Arrangements.
and that business plans are consistent with risk appetite.
This deterioration in consumer credit quality, coupled with the changing social attitudes to bankruptcy and debt default in general, contributed Risk appetite is the level of risk that Barclays is willing to accept in to a higher impairment charge in our UK credit card and unsecured fulfilling business objectives.
To determine this acceptable level of risk, loan portfolios.
potential earnings volatility against financial objectives are considered first.
As part of the planning process, management estimates the Notwithstanding the difficult conditions in the UK credit environment, potential earnings volatility from different businesses under various Barclays experience shows that the actions taken in Barclaycard, scenarios.
Barclays estimates the capacity to absorb unexpected losses including revised underwriting rules, tighter limit assignment and line in terms of the tolerable level of variance from financial targets, by management, and improved collections have had a positive effect.
The considering the ability to support business growth, desired dividend quality of new accounts, as measured by average credit scores, has payout levels and capital ratio targets.
If the projections entail too high consistently improved since 2005, while in our UK cards and unsecured a level of risk, management will challenge each area to find new ways loan portfolios the flows into early stage and later cycle delinquency as to rebalance the business mix to incur less risk on a diversified basis.
well as arrears balances decreased in the second half of 2006.
Barclays believes that this enables it to improve risk and return Barclays has been alert to contagion from the retail sector influencing characteristics across the business and help meet growth targets the Local Business portfolio and although increasing credit delinquency within an overall risk appetite.
has been anticipated and experienced, management actions have been Across Barclays, every business manager is accountable for managing taken to mitigate the impact.
Conditions in this area have been more risk in his or her business area: they must understand and control the directly affected by the conditions prevailing in the retail market, key risks inherent in the business undertaken.
Each business area also especially those sectors closer to the consumer.
All of these businesses employs risk specialists to provide an independent control function and are dependent on the UK economy and it is expected that the outlook to support the development of a strong risk management environment.
for economic growth in 2007 will be similar to that experienced in 2006.
This functional approach to risk management is built on formal control Some important changes to the retail risk profile in 2006 were volume processes that rely on individual responsibility and independent related.
In the UK, the size of the card portfolio reduced as a result of the oversight, as well as challenge through peer reviews.
Barclays continues management actions in Barclaycard outlined above, while international to use and develop advanced analysis, with comprehensive reporting activities in the USA, Europe and South Africa expanded.
of risk positions against their key risk factors and against risk appetite.
To support expanded risk taking, Barclays has continued to strengthen Looking outside the UK, Barclaycard US has been growing its card the independent and specialised risk teams in each of its businesses, portfolio and Absa also operated in a growing market in South Africa.
supported by matching teams at Group level, acting in both a The business model explicitly includes the benefits of risk diversification consultancy and oversight capacity.
It has made the recruitment, of new products with new clients and in new geographies.
Risk development and retention of risk professionals a priority because it is diversification was therefore a significant factor in the decision to believed that it is a prerequisite to business growth plans.
Barclays also acquire a majority stake in Absa in 2005, which provided strong continues to make significant investment in the infrastructure to earnings in 2006 that are less correlated to the core UK business.
The identify, measure and report risk positions.
same is true for Barclaycard US and the other areas of international growth within existing businesses, such as Barclays Capital and BGI.
Barclays remains committed to the objective of increasing shareholder value by developing and growing business that is consistent with risk The credit environment in the larger corporate and wholesale sector appetite, and through building more effective risk management continued to benefit from relatively stable conditions, although there capabilities.
Responsibility for risk management resides at all levels was some evidence of slightly increasing corporate defaults.
Overall within the Group, from the Executive down through the organisation global credit conditions, based on economic growth, low inflation and to each business manager and risk specialist.
We are seeking an rising stock markets, have led to a very competitive market and credit appropriate balance in our business, and continuing to build the risk spreads are still at very low levels in most markets.
Borrower quality has management capabilities that will help us to deliver our growth plans remained good across the capital market corporate sector.
There has in a controlled environment.
been continued market demand for credit assets resulting from strong financial industry liquidity, which has been important in maintaining 2006 developments the strong corporate credit environment.
In broad terms, Risk Appetite increased by about 20% during 2006, in conjunction with increased and more diversified earnings and a Investors in the leveraged finance market displayed a continued strong continued strong capital base.
Barclays will continue to deploy this demand for assets in 2006.
With so much liquidity in the market, expanded appetite across many businesses and risk types.
During 2006 transaction leverage multiples have risen, maturities have lengthened it expanded the range and level of credit risk it runs across geographies and amounts financed have increased.
Barclays remained focused on and products, and this will continue as part of its developing business the structure of such deals and it declines transactions that are beyond plans.
Traded market risk levels grew at a slower level than trading its appetite.
It runs a distribution-led leveraged finance business in revenues: these and the other risk types are addressed below.
Barclays Capital and has a strong track record of selling down underwriting positions rather than holding larger positions in the credit The risk environment in 2006 had very different characteristics across portfolio, and it is alert to any slowdown in the distribution performance the risk types, with continued benign conditions in wholesale and of the syndication markets.
In the UK market for smaller transactions, it corporate credit risk, a continued difficult environment in the UK has also maintained caps on risk positions in this business during 2006. unsecured retail credit sector, stable operational risk, and periods of Barclays PLC 68 Annual Report 2006 Operating review 1 Barclays is also focused on the UK commercial property lending market, Basel II where property yields in 2006 declined as financing costs have risen.
The implementation of the new Basel II regulatory requirements is the As a result, there has been further constriction of the available cash principal area of regulatory change ahead for the risk management area.
flow margin to support higher valuations and increased debt levels.
The main purpose of this is to promote a more sophisticated capital Barclays therefore has increased hold levels and while the business has assessment and risk management framework for the international expanded, none of the caps governing exposure in this sector has banking industry.
In October 2006 Barclays formally applied to the FSA to adopt the advanced approaches for both Credit and Operational risk from Overall, the contrast in credit conditions in the retail and wholesale markets is reflected in the different trends of principal metrics.
While 1st January 2008, and the FSA is expected to provide its decision by 30th June 2007.
A positive consequence of the advanced approaches Risk Tendency and Non-Performing Loan balances both rose in the retail sector, they fell or held steady in the wholesale portfolios.
is closer alignment between internal economic capital and regulatory capital measures and processes, thus helping Barclays to manage its The market risk environment in 2006 offered clients the opportunity to capital ratios more effectively over time.
benefit from market movements in a controlled manner through their own risk management activities.
Although Barclays Capital ran higher The successful implementation of the Basel II requirements has required levels of market risk as measured by daily value at risk DVaR, this was some data, model, and system changes in many of Barclays businesses.
in line with Risk Appetite and the growth in trading revenues more than The investment it has made in this area is part of the business strategy kept pace with rising DVaR.
The two principal areas where the risk to ensure that Barclays continues to be at the leading edge of risk profile at Barclays Capital altered were commodities and interest rates.
management and, as such, it continues to believe that achieving The commodities business saw an increase in client demand for advanced status is appropriate and realistic.
structured products and risk management solutions, which led to a The Group commenced the parallel run process required to adopt strong trading performance in Barclays Capital and an increase in risk Basel II at the end of 2006.
During 2007, the results of the parallel run positions arising from client business needs.
In contrast, interest rate of the Groups Basel II models will be an important consideration in the markets were quieter, leading to a smaller requirement from clients to management of its capital resources.
A further requirement of Basel II hold such market risk positions on the books.
is enhanced market disclosure and to support this, Barclays is moving towards an improved reporting capability.
Market risks outside Barclays Capital, which mainly include interest rate exposures within the various banking books and some Treasury risks, remained very modest, consistent with the Groups policy of hedging these positions to a material degree.
Barclays defined benefit pension risks are also closely monitored.
The actuarial funding surplus of the UK pension scheme improved on the back of strong asset returns and contributions from Barclays.
These factors, together with several market developments that led to adjustments in accounting assumptions, also drove a reduction in the IAS 19 deficit.
The challenges in operational risk management arise from the strong growth in the transaction volumes contained within the business plans and from the increasing internationalisation of operations.
However, Barclays has been successful in reducing the level of operational risk through improving key end-to-end processes and increasing their resilience and capacity to sustain the increasing demands of higher business volumes.
Internet banking was an important focus of financial crime risk management in 2006, with increasing numbers of fraud attacks in the first quarter.
These occurred through both attempted identity thefts phishing and the placing of electronic devices in systems to extract personal data trojans.
Such attempts are becoming more sophisticated in nature but Barclays was able to stem and then reverse the growth in net losses through the aggressive deployment of additional controls, supported by extra resources within fraud operations.
The improved capacity for early detection of compromised accounts meant that a recrudescence of fraud attacks later in the year did not lead to any increase in losses.
In 2006 Barclays continued to strengthen its anti-money laundering activities, to enhance the Groups financial sanctions screening capability and to implement more robust controls.
These measures enable it to comply with the ever more complex demands of the international regulatory environment and to resist increasingly sophisticated criminal operations.
As such, Barclays believes that it has further improved the management of financial crime risk globally, an integral part of protecting its reputation and brand.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 69 Risk management Risk management and control overview Governance Structure at Group Level Board oversight Board Approves overall Group risk appetite.
Board Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Considers the adequacy and effectiveness Review the Group risk profile.
of the Group Control Framework.
AUTHORITY Approves the Group Control Framework.
CONTROLS Reviews reports on control issues of Approves minimum control requirements APPETITE Group level significance.
Risk adjusted Group Chief Executive REPORTING ASSURANCE performance Group Executive Committee Monitors and manages risk adjusted performance of businesses.
Governance and Control Committee Risk Oversight Committee Treasury Committee Reviews the adequacy and effectiveness Ensures current risk profile is consistent Monitors the Groups liquidity and of the Group Control Framework.
Monitors compliance with the Debates and agrees actions on the risk Monitors usage of regulatory capital.
Framework including remediation profile and risk strategy across Reviews policy controls for liquidity, of significant control issues.
maturity transformation and structural Considers issues escalated by Risk Type interest rate exposure.
Heads and Business Risk Directors.
Assurance Internal Audit Assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Control Framework.
In addition to the Committees shown in the chart, there is a Brand and by attendance and or the provision of quarterly reports resulting from Reputation Committee reviewing emerging issues with potentially its work on governance, risk and control issues of significance.
Board Audit Committee reviews and approves Internal Audits plans and resources, and evaluates the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
These Committees receive regular and comprehensive reports.
The An assessment by external advisers is also carried out periodically.
Board Risk Committee receives a quarterly report covering all of our principal risks.
The Board Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on Under Basel II, Barclays aims to achieve advanced status under credit control issues of significance and half-yearly impairment allowances and operational risks.
Barclays considers that the investment required and regulatory reports.
Both Committees also receive reports dealing in to attain this status is warranted by the internal risk management more depth with specific issues relevant at the time.
The proceedings of improvements that will follow, the reputational benefits and the both Committees are reported to the full Board, which also receives a potential for greater capital efficiency.
Internal Audit supports both Committees Barclays PLC 70 Annual Report 2006 Operating review 1 Risk management overview Risk responsibilities The Board approves Risk Appetite and the Board Risk Committee monitors the Groups risk profile against this appetite.
Business Heads are responsible for the identification and management of risk in their businesses.
The Risk Director, under delegated authority from the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, has responsibility for ensuring effective risk management and control.
Each business has an embedded risk management team reporting to a Business Risk Director or Chief Credit Officer who reports to the Risk Director.
The risk management teams assist Group Risk in the formulation of Group Risk policy and the implementation of it across the businesses.
Risk-Type Heads and their teams are responsible for establishing a risk control framework and risk oversight.
Business risk teams, each under the management of a Business Risk Director, are responsible for assisting Business Heads in the identification and management of their business risk profiles and for implementing appropriate controls.
Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of risk management and the control environment.
Group Board Group Chief Executive Internal Audit Divisional Chief Executive Officers Group Finance Director Business Heads Risk Director Business Risk Directors or Chief Credit Officers Risk-Type Heads Corporate All Retail Wholesale Market Operational other Credit risk Credit risk risk risk risks UK Banking Barclays Capital x Barclaycard International Retail and Commercial Bank Barclays Wealth Barclays Global Investors x Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 71 Business Risk Directors Risk management Risk management overview The internal control framework at Barclays is aligned with the Risk management internationally accepted standard Internal Control Integrated The pages that follow describe how Barclays conducts risk Framework published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations management, including the key risk concepts it uses and how it of the Treadway Commission COSO.
The Groups principal risk manages specific types of risk.
categories set out below are the subject of Board approved risk To ensure the Group maintains effective governance and control over control requirements.
its risk management processes, Group Risk sets policies and standards Credit for each risk type.
Group Risk breaks down the risk management Market process into five discrete steps: direct, assess, control, report and Capital manage challenge.
It is Group Risks responsibility to ensure that each Liquidity of the five steps is embedded across the Group for each risk type.
Operational risks and business risks, comprising: Financial Reporting, Taxation and Budgeting Responsibilities Brand Management Direct Understand the principal risks to achieving Change Group strategy.
Corporate Responsibility Establish Risk Appetite.
People Establish and communicate the risk management Regulatory Compliance framework including responsibilities, authorities Financial Crime and key controls.
Strategic Technology Assess Establish the process for identifying and analysing Legal business-level risks.
Operations Agree and implement measurement and Detailed discussion of our risk management of credit, market, capital, reporting standards and methodologies.
liquidity, operational and business risks follows, starting with credit risk Control Establish key control processes and practices, on page 76.
In addition there is also discussion on insurance risk, including limit structures, impairment allowance disclosure about certain trading activities and derivatives.
Monitor the operation of the controls and adherence to risk direction and limits.
Provide early warning of control or appetite breaches.
Ensure that risk management practices and conditions are appropriate for the business environment.
Report Interpret and report on risk exposures, concentrations and risk-taking outcomes.
Interpret and report on sensitivities and Key Risk Indicators.
Manage and Review and challenge all aspects of the Groups Challenge risk profile.
Advise on optimising the Groups risk profile.
Review and challenge risk management practices.
Risk Appetite Risk Appetite is the level of risk Barclays chooses to take to reach its strategic objectives, recognising a range of possible outcomes, as business plans are implemented.
Barclays framework, approved by the Board Risk Committee, combines a top-down view of its capacity to take risk, with a bottom-up view of the business risk profile requested and recommended by each business area.
The objectives of the Risk Appetite framework are to: help protect the Groups performance: improve management confidence and debate regarding our risk profile: help executive management improve control and co-ordination of risk-taking across businesses: and, enable unused risk capacity to be identified and thus profitable opportunities to be highlighted.
Barclays PLC 72 Annual Report 2006 Operating review 1 The Risk Appetite framework considers credit, market and operational Stress testing risk and is applied using two perspectives: earnings volatility and The Risk Appetite numbers are validated by estimating the Group mandate and scale.
sensitivity to macroeconomic events using stress testing and scenario analysis.
Changes in certain macroeconomic variables represent Earnings Volatility: This is the level of potential deviation from expected environmental stresses which may reveal systemic credit and market financial performance that Barclays is prepared to sustain at relevant risk sensitivities in our retail and wholesale portfolios.
The stresses points on the risk profile.
It is established with reference to the strategic considered include, for example, the following sensitivities: objectives and to the business plans of the Group, including the Gross Domestic Product weaker: achievement of annual financial targets, payment of dividends, funding of capital growth and maintenance of acceptable capital ratios.
The employment weaker: interest rates higher or lower: portfolio is analysed in this way at four representative levels: interest rate curve shifts: expected performance including the average credit losses based on equity prices lower: measurements over many years : property prices weaker: a moderate stress level of loss that is likely to occur only infrequently credit spreads wider: and is meant to correspond to a macroeconomic cycle: country exposure stressed: a severe stress which is much less likely: industry exposure stressed: an extreme but highly improbable level of stressed loss which is used currency fluctuations.
to determine the Groups economic capital.
More complex scenarios, such as recessions, can be represented by These potentially larger but increasingly less likely levels of loss are combinations of variables.
These scenarios allow senior management illustrated in the following chart.
to gain a better understanding of how portfolios are likely to react to changing economic and geopolitical conditions and how the Group Risk Appetite concepts diagram not to scale can best react to them.
The stress test simulates the balance sheet and Expected profit and loss effects of stresses across the Group, investigating the Mean impact on profits and the ability to maintain appropriate capital ratios.
Insights gained are fully integrated into the senior management process Moderate Stress and the Risk Appetite framework.
This process of analysis and senior management oversight also provides the basis for fulfilling the stress testing requirements of Basel II advanced approach.
Severe Stress Barclays estimates the capital needed to survive an extreme but highly improbable level of stressed loss.
The calculation is based on the historical volatility of losses.
Capitalisation occurs to a level sufficient Extreme Stress to provide a high level of confidence in the Group, consistent with the Groups AA rating.
Risk Economic capital The Group macroeconomic stress test is only one of a number of stress Tendency test analyses that are performed as part of the wider risk management Potential size of loss in one year process.
Specific stress test analysis is used across all risk types to gain a Mandate and scale: This second perspective is a risk management better understanding of the risk profile and the potential effects of approach that seeks to formally review and control our business changes in external factors.
These stress tests are performed at a activities to ensure that they are within our mandate i. e. aligned to the number of different levels, from analysis covering specific stresses on expectations of external stakeholders and are of an appropriate scale individual sub-portfolios e. g. high value mortgages in the South East relative to the risk and reward of the underlying activities.
This is of England, to portfolio level stresses e. g. the overall commodities achieved by using limits and triggers to avoid concentrations and portfolio to Group-wide stresses for particular asset types e. g. operational risks which could lead to unexpected losses of a scale that wholesale credit risk stress tests.
would result in a disproportionate fall in Barclays market capitalisation.
Capital management Taken as a whole, the Risk Appetite framework provides a basis for the Barclays considers both regulatory see page 89 and economic capital allocation of risk capacity to each business.
Since the level of loss at any see page 74 as part of its capital management.
In respect of economic given probability is dependent on the portfolio of exposures in each capital, Group Risk owns the methodology and policy whilst the business, the statistical measurement for each key risk category gives businesses are responsible for the calculation.
the Group clearer sight and better control of risk-taking throughout the enterprise.
The Risk Appetite framework is designed to be: simple and practical to apply by measurement and monitoring of exposures: geared to risk return where capacity is directly related to opportunity: based on a top-down capacity for earnings volatility: based on bottom-up identification of risk factors in each business: relevant, recognising the impact and likelihood of losses: aggregated across businesses where appropriate.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 73 Probability of loss Risk management Risk management overview Economic capital Economic capital supply Barclays assesses capital requirements by measuring the Group risk The capital resources to support economic capital comprise adjusted profile using both internally and externally developed models.
The shareholders equity including Preference Shares but excluding other Group assigns economic capital primarily within seven risk categories: minority interests.
Preference Shares have been issued to optimise the Credit Risk, Market Risk, Business Risk, Operational Risk, Insurance Risk, long-term capital base of the Group.
Fixed Assets and Private Equity.
The capital resources to support economic capital are impacted by a The Group regularly enhances its economic capital methodology and number of factors arising from the application of IFRSs and are modified benchmarks outputs to external reference points.
The framework has in calculating available funds for economic capital.
This applies been enhanced to reflect default probabilities during average credit specifically to: conditions, rather than those prevailing at the balance sheet date, thus Cash flow hedging reserve to the extent that the Group undertakes seeking to remove cyclicality from the economic capital calculation.
the hedging of future cash flows, shareholders equity will include The framework also adjusts economic capital to reflect time horizon, gains and losses which will be offset against the gain or loss on the correlation of risks and risk concentrations.
hedged item when it is recognised in the income statement at the Economic capital is allocated on a consistent basis across all of Barclays conclusion of the future hedged transaction.
Given the future offset businesses and risk activities.
A single cost of equity is applied to of such gains and losses, they are excluded from shareholders calculate the cost of risk.
Economic capital allocations reflect varying equity when calculating economic capital.
Available for sale reserve unrealised gains and losses on such securities are included in shareholders equity until disposal or The total average economic capital required by the Group, as impairment.
Such gains and losses are excluded from shareholders determined by risk assessment models and after considering the equity for the purposes of calculating economic capital.
Realised Groups estimated portfolio effects, is compared with the supply of gains and losses, foreign exchange translation differences and any economic capital to evaluate economic capital utilisation.
Supply of impairment charges recorded in the income statement will impact economic capital is calculated as the average available shareholders economic profit.
equity after adjustment and including preference shares.
Retirement benefits liability the Group has recorded a deficit with The economic capital methodology will form the basis of the a consequent reduction in shareholders equity.
This represents a Groups submission for the Basel II Internal Capital Adequacy non-cash reduction in shareholders equity.
For the purposes of Assessment Process.
calculating economic capital, the Group does not deduct the pension deficit from shareholders equity.
a The average supply of capital to support the economic capital framework is set out below : 2006 2005 m m b Shareholders equity excluding minority interests less goodwill 11,400 10,850 Retirement benefits liability 1,300 1,350 Cash flow hedging reserve 100 250 Available for sale reserve 50 250 Preference shares 3,200 2,350 Available funds for economic capital excluding goodwill 15,950 14,050 b Average historic goodwill and intangible assets 7,750 6,450 c Available funds for economic capital 23,700 20,500 Notes a Averages for the period will not correspond to period-end balances disclosed in the balance sheet.
Numbers are rounded to the nearest 50m for presentational purposes only.
b Average goodwill relates to purchased goodwill and intangible assets from business acquisitions.
c Available funds for economic capital as at 31st December 2006 stood at 25,150m 31st December 2005: 21,850m.
Barclays PLC 74 Annual Report 2006 Operating review 1 Average economic capital allocation by business m 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 06 06 05 06 05 06 05 06 05 06 05 06 05 05 06 05 06 05 05 06 UK Retail UK Barclaycard International International Barclays Barclays Barclays Head office Group b Banking Business Retail and Retail and Capital Global Wealth functions centre Banking Commercial Commercial Investors and other a Banking Banking operations Absa ex Absa In 2006, the average allocated economic capital of the Group was 1,150m.
This was due to lending growth primarily in Africa and Iberia.
In addition, average economic capital International Retail and Commercial Banking Absa economic capital held against unamortised goodwill was 7.75bn for the year ended allocation excluding the risk borne by the minority interest increased 31st December 2006 2005: 6.45bn, resulting in the total economic 450m to 750m 2005: 300m, reflecting loan growth and the capital requirement of 23.7bn 2005: 20.5bn.
inclusion of Absa for a full year.
UK Retail Banking economic capital allocation increased 50m to Barclays Capital economic capital increased 850m to 3,750m 2005: 2,400m 2005: 2,350m, reflecting exposure growth in the portfolio.
2,900m due to growth in equity investments, market, business and UK Business Banking economic capital allocation increased 100m to operational risk and changes in the sector mix of the corporate lending 2,700m 2005: 2,600m as a consequence of asset growth offset by portfolio.
The growth also reflects holding the Absa Capital portfolio for changes to estimates of risk correlation.
Barclaycard economic capital allocation increased 50m to 2,850m Barclays Wealth economic capital allocation decreased 50m to 350m 2005: 2,800m.
Exposure growth, primarily in the international cards 2005: 400m due to changes to estimates of risk correlation on and secured loans portfolio, was partially offset by risk transfer activity, average economic capital.
the decline in UK Card balances and the transition to default probability Capital held at the Group centre increased 400m to 1,450m 2005: methodology which is based on average credit conditions rather than 1,050m.
Demand for economic capital in the businesses was more those prevailing at the balance sheet date.
than offset by growth in the funds available to support economic capital.
International Retail and Commercial Banking excluding Absa economic capital allocation increased 50m to 1,200m 2005: Average economic capital allocation by risk type m 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 06 05 06 05 06 05 06 05 06 05 06 05 06 05 Wholesale Retail Operational Market Business Fixed asset Other c credit risk credit risk risk risk risk risk risks Notes a Includes Transition business and Capital for centre functional risk.
b The Groups practice is to maintain an appropriate level of excess capital held at the Group centre, which is not allocated to business units.
This variance arises as a result of capital management timing and includes Captial held to cover pension contributions.
c Includes excess capital held at the Group centre: investments in associates: private equity risk and insurance risk.
Credit risk The second also reflects the statistical probability of a customer in a Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss, should any of the Groups rating class defaulting, but the period of assessment is different, in this customers, clients or market counterparties fail to fulfil their contractual case the period is defined as 12 months of average credit conditions for obligations to the Group.
Credit risk may also arise where the the customer type.
This type of rating therefore provides a measure of downgrading of an entitys credit rating causes the fair value of the risk that is independent of the current credit conditions for a particular Groups investment in that entitys financial instruments to fall.
The customer type, is much more stable over time than a PIT rating and is credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from commercial and referred to as a through the cycle rating TTC.
consumer loans and advances, including credit card lending.
Multiple rating methodologies may be used to inform the rating The granting of credit is one of the Groups major sources of income and decision on individual large credits, such as internal and external as its most significant risk, the Group dedicates considerable resources to models, rating agency ratings, and for wholesale assets market controlling it.
The importance of credit risk is illustrated by noting that information such as credit spreads.
For smaller credits, a single source nearly two-thirds of risk-based economic capital is allocated to credit risk.
may suffice such as the result from a rating model.
Credit exposures arise principally in loans and advances.
In 2005, Barclays improved upon the granularity of its earlier 12-grade In managing credit risk, the Group applies the five-step risk management internal credit rating scale for wholesale credit.
This was achieved by process and internal control framework described previously page 72. increasing the number of ratings across the same range to 21.
The The credit risk management teams in each business are accountable to 12-grade rating scale has historically been mapped to long-term agency the Business Risk Directors in those businesses who, in turn, report to the ratings.
The new 21 default grades represent Barclays best estimate of heads of their businesses and also to the Risk Director.
the level of credit risk for each counterparty based on current economic conditions, and as a result a static link to long-term rating agency These credit risk management teams assist Group Risk in the formulation ratings is no longer used.
of Group Risk policy and the implementation of it across the businesses.
Examples include: Exposure in the event of default commonly known as Exposure at Default EAD maximum exposure guidelines are in place relating to the exposures Exposure in the event of default represents the expected level of usage to any individual customer or counterparty: of the credit facility when default occurs.
At default the customer may country risk policy specifies risk appetite by country and avoids not have drawn the loan fully or may already have repaid some of the excessive concentration of credit risk in individual countries: principal, so that exposure is typically less than the approved loan limit.
policies are in place that limit lending to certain industrial sectors When the Group evaluates loans, it takes exposure at default into commercial real estate being one example.
consideration, using its extensive historical experience.
It recognises Within Group Risk, the Credit Risk function, led by the Credit Risk Director, that customers may make heavier than average usage of their facilities provides Group-wide direction of credit risk-taking.
This functional team as they approach default.
manages the resolution of all significant credit policy issues and runs the For derivative instruments, exposure in the event of default is the Credit Committee, which approves major credit decisions.
estimated cost of replacing contracts with a positive value should The principal Committees that review credit risk management, formulate counterparties fail to perform their obligations.
overall Group credit policy and resolve all significant credit policy issues Severity of loss given default commonly known as Loss Given are the Group Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee, the Group Default LGD Retail Credit Risk Management Committee, the Risk Oversight Committee When a customer defaults, some part of the amount outstanding on its and the Board Risk Committee see page 70 for more details of this loans is usually recovered.
The part that is not recovered, the actual loss, Committee.
The Board Audit Committee also reviews the impairment together with the economic costs associated with the recovery process allowance as part of financial reporting.
combine to a figure called the LGD.
The severity of the LGD is measured Credit risk measurement as a percentage of the EAD.
Barclays uses statistical modelling techniques throughout its business Using historical information, the Group can estimate how much is likely in its credit rating systems.
These systems assist the Bank in frontline to be lost, on average, for various types of loans.
To illustrate, LGD is credit decisions on new commitments and in managing the portfolio lower for residential mortgages than for unsecured loans because of the of existing exposures.
They enable the application of consistent risk property pledged as collateral.
measurement across all credit exposures, retail and wholesale.
The key building blocks in the measurement system, which are described below, The level of LGD depends on the type of collateral if any : the seniority are the probability of customer default expressed through an internal or subordination of the exposure: the industry in which the customer risk rating, exposure in the event of default, and severity of lossoperates if a business : the jurisdiction applicable and work-out given-default.
Using these, Barclays builds the analysis that leads to expenses.
The outcome is also dependent on economic conditions that its decision support systems in the Risk Appetite context described may determine, for example, the prices that can be realised for assets or previously.
However, it should be noted that credit risk measurement, whether businesses can readily be refinanced.
Individual defaults show particularly Risk Tendency, can be contrasted with impairment a wide range of outcomes, varying from full to nil recovery and all points allowances required under accounting standards, which are based on in between.
losses known to have been incurred at the balance sheet date and not Expected Loss: Risk Tendency on expected loss.
The three components described above the probability of default, Probability of customer default commonly known as Probability exposure at default and loss given default are building blocks used in of Default PD : Internal risk ratings a variety of applications that measure credit risk across the entire Barclays assesses the credit quality of borrowers and other portfolio.
One of these applications is a measurement of expected loss counterparties and assigns them an internal risk rating.
There are two that we use at Barclays, that we call Risk Tendency RT.
different categories of default rating used.
The first reflects the statistical probability of a customer in a rating class defaulting within the next Barclays PLC 76 Annual Report 2006 Operating review 1 RT is a statistical estimate of the average loss for the loan portfolio for RT covers only the loans at the date of estimation and does not a 12-month period, taking into account the portfolios size and risk make allowance for subsequent growth or change in the characteristics under current credit conditions.
It is a PIT measure and composition of the loan book which can affect impairment.
therefore requires a point in time PD PDPIT as an input.
RT provides RT is a statistical estimate of losses arising only in the current insight into the credit quality of the portfolio and assists management performing loan portfolio and therefore it is not calculated for in tracking risk changes as the Groups stock of credit exposures evolves non-performing loans in the wholesale portfolio or for retail loans in size or risk profile in the course of business.
Impairment can include significant additional charges, write-backs RT is calculated for both corporate and retail loans as follows: and recoveries arising during the year from impaired loans.
items can materially affect the impairment allowance charge, but are not included in RT.
The RT of each individual loan is aggregated to produce the RT of the The actual credit impairment charge arising from new defaults in various sub-portfolios in the Group and ultimately for the whole Group.
any one year, from loans that are performing at the start of the year, At this aggregate level, RT is a statistical estimate of the average loss vary significantly around the RT value.
This can be due to changes over a 12-month period that is inherent in the Groups credit exposures.
during the year in the economic environment or in the business Many models are used in the estimation of the components of RT in each conditions in specific sectors or countries and from unpredictable of the Groups businesses.
The majority of the models are internally or unexpected external events.
This applies especially in wholesale developed using Barclays own historical data and other external portfolios where the default of a small number of large exposures information.
In some cases we use externally developed models and will significantly increase the periods impairment allowance but rating tools.
The appropriateness of these external models for use within will not have been included in the RT figure.
For retail portfolios, Barclays is validated as part of the model approval process.
It is also a consisting of a very large number of small exposures, the variation Barclays policy that all existing models are validated annually to ensure in the rate of change in new impairment compared to the RT figure their applicability to the current portfolios and credit conditions.
is usually much smaller than for wholesale portfolios.
To interpret RT, the following should be considered: RT increased 415m to 2,260m 2005: 1,845m.
RT is calculated using probabilities of default that are relevant to UK Retail Banking RT increased 45m to 225m 2005: 180m the current credit conditions for each customer.
These figures are reflecting a methodology enhancement to better reflect expected loss therefore a point-in-time estimate based on current economic and rates in the Local Business portfolio.
The increase in Barclaycard RT was 310m, the total rising to 1,410m RT is calculated for different purposes and through different 2005: 1,100m.
This reflected the deterioration in credit conditions methods to impairment allowances, so RT cannot be used as in the UK credit card and unsecured loan market as well as loan a forecast of the total allowances for impairment.
It is rather a balance growth.
statistical estimate that reflects changes in the size and quality of the loan portfolio.
RT does not equate to the Groups budget International Retail and Commercial Banking Absa RT increased or internal forecast of impairment allowance in the coming year.
45m, reflecting balance sheet growth, a normalisation of credit The principal reasons for the difference between impairment and conditions in South Africa and by an asset transfer from Absa Capital.
RT are: RT in Barclays Capital fell 15m mainly as a result of assets which were RT is a forecast estimate of the average loss associated with the transferred to International Retail and Commercial Banking Absa from current performing portfolio over a 12-month period, impairment Absa Capital.
is the accounting value of incurred loss realised on the whole portfolio.
Risk Tendency by business m 1,500 1,200 900 600 300 0 05 06 05 06 05 06 05 06 05 06 05 06 05 06 05 06 UK Retail International Barclays Head office UK Business Barclaycard International Barclays a Banking Retail and Capital functions Banking Retail and Wealth Commercial and other Commercial a b Banking operations Banking ex Absa Absa Notes a Of the reduction to Barclays Capital RT, 10m is as a consequence of a transfer of certain assets from Absa Capital to International Retail and Commercial Banking in the second half of 2006.
The 2006 Risk Tendency in International Retail and Commercial Banking Absa has increased by an equivalent amount.
b Head office functions and other operations comprises discontinued businesses in transition.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 77 180 225 250 290 1,100 1,410 100 145 75 75 110 95 5 10 25 10 Risk management Credit risk management Credit risk mitigation Measuring country risk The Group uses a wide variety of techniques to reduce credit risk on its Country risk is managed through the application of Country Loss Given lending.
The most basic of these is performing an assessment of the Default CLGD.
All cross-border or domestic foreign currency ability of a borrower to service the proposed level of borrowing without transactions incur CLGD from the Country Guideline agreed at GCC.
In addition, the Group commonly obtains security for the funds The level of CLGD incurred by a counterparty transaction will largely advanced, such as in the case of a retail or commercial mortgage, a depend on three main factors: the country severity, the product severity reverse repurchase agreement, or a commercial loan with a floating and counterparty grade.
charge over book debts and inventories.
The Group also uses various CLGD is incurred in the country of direct risk, defined as where the forms of specialised legal agreements to reduce risk, including netting majority of operating assets are held.
This may be different to the agreements which permit it to offset positive and negative balances country of incorporation.
However, where transactions are secured with with customers in certain circumstances to minimise the exposure at collateral, the country risk can be transferred from the country of the default, financial guarantees, and the use of covenants in commercial borrower to the country of the collateral provider.
This is only permitted lending agreements.
Other techniques include the use of credit where the collateral definitely covers the borrowing and is not expected derivatives and other forms of credit protection.
Barclays manages the diversification of its portfolio to avoid unwanted Country executives credit risk concentrations.
Maximum Country Managers are in place for all countries where the Group has exposure guidelines are in place relating to the exposures to any exposure and they, under the direction of GCC, have responsibility for individual counterparty.
These permit higher exposures to highly rated allocating country risk to individual transactions.
The total allocation borrowers than to lower rated borrowers.
of country limits is monitored on a daily basis by Group Credit Risk, as They also distinguish between types of counterparty, for example, headed by the Group Credit Risk Director.
Discretions exist to increase between sovereign governments, banks and corporations.
Excesses are the Country Guideline above the level agreed by GCC where the Country considered individually at the time of credit sanctioning, are reviewed Guideline is below the Prudential Guideline.
All requests to increase the regularly, and are reported to the Risk Oversight Committee and the Country Guideline in line with individual discretions must be submitted Board Risk Committee.
to and applied centrally through Group Credit Risk.
Similarly, country risk policy specifies Risk Appetite by country and Credit concentration avoids excessive concentrations of credits in individual countries.
A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar activities and have similar economic Finally, there are policies that limit lending to certain industries, for characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual example, commercial real estate.
obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other Barclays actively manages its credit exposures.
exposures are detected either in individual exposures or in groups of The Risk Oversight Committee has delegated responsibility for exposures action is taken to mitigate the risks.
These include steps to management of retail exposure, which comprises personal lending reduce the amounts outstanding in discussion with the customers, including small businesses, mortgages and credit cards, to the Group clients or counterparties if appropriate, the use of credit derivatives Retail Credit Risk Management Committee RCRMC and wholesale and, sometimes, the sale of the loan assets.
Credit derivatives are traded exposure, which comprises lending to businesses, banks and other for profit and are used for managing credit exposures.
Details of these financial institutions to the Group Wholesale Credit Risk Management activities may be found in the statistical section page 101 and Note 52 Committee WCRMC.
The RCRMC, considers, among others metrics, to the accounts.
the ratio of loan to value for home loans and the exposure by the Country risk Barclays Retail Grade BRG of the customer, whilst the WCRMC Country grades monitors exposure by country and by industry sector and individual Country risk grades are assigned to all countries where the Group has, large exposures and exposures to sub-investment grade countries.
or is likely to have, exposure and are reviewed every quarter to ensure A further protection against undesirable concentration of risk is the they remain appropriate.
Country grades, which are derived from mandate and scale framework described on page 73.
Mandate and long-term sovereign foreign currency ratings, range from 1 lowest scale limits, which can also be set at Group level to reflect overall risk probability of default to 21 highest probability of default.
A ceiling is appetite, can relate either to the stock of current exposures in the applied where a country is graded 12 or worse so that the counterparty relevant portfolio or to the flow of new exposures into that portfolio.
cannot be graded better than the country, unless some form of Typical limits include the caps on UK commercial investment property protection is available in the event of a cross-border event, such as a lending, the proportion of lending with maturity in excess of seven years significant portion of a counterpartys assets or income being held or and the proportion of new mortgage business that is buy-to-let.
The concentrations of credit exposure described in the next section Country risk appetite Risk management: loans and advances to customers and in the To manage exposure to country risk the Group uses two country limits: statistical sections are not proportionally related to credit loss.
Some the Prudential Guideline and the Country Guideline.
The Prudential segments of the Groups portfolio have and are expected to have Guideline is identified through the strict mapping of a country grade to proportionally higher credit charges in relation to the exposure than derive a model-driven acceptable level of loss given default.
Moreover, the volatility of credit loss is different in different parts Country Guideline for all graded countries is set by the Group Credit of the portfolio.
Thus comparatively large credit impairment charges Committee GCC based on the Prudential Guideline and the internal could arise in parts of the portfolio not mentioned below.
The Country Guideline may therefore be above or below the Prudential Guideline.
Barclays PLC 78 Annual Report 2006 Operating review Risk management 1 Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers Risk profile of customer loans and advances The chart below shows Barclays wholesale loan profile by existing risk Geographical analysis of loans and advances to customers % grade see page 76 for a description of the rating system.
It is important to note that Barclays prices loans for risk.
Thus higher risk loans will 1.
UK usually have higher interest rates or fees or both.
Other European 4 risk loans may therefore be as profitable as, or more profitable than, a 4 Union 3.
United States portfolio of lower risk loans.
Rest of the World 1 Loans and advances, balances and limits to wholesale 1 2 2 customers by internal risk rating% Loan balances by internal Loan limits by internal rating % of Total rating % of Total 2005 2006 1 2 See also Table 5 on page 96.
3 Geographical analysis and country risk 4 Loans and advances to customers amounted to 286bn 2005: 272bn, 5 2004: 207bn.
6 The geographical analysis presented is based on the location of 7 customers.
8 Barclays exposure limits to sub-investment grade countries are shown 9 in the chart below largest 15 exposure limits.
10 11 Credit exposure limits to sub-investment grade countries m 12 a India 13 Egypt 14 Brazil 15 Kenya 16 Turkey 17 Ghana 18 Tanzania 19 Bolivia 20 Zambia 21 Peru 0 5 10 15 20 0 5 10 15 20 Morocco Indonesia Colombia 2005 Philippines Venezuela 2006 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 The country exposures shown are the sum of customer limits and unused but available product limits.
Both domestic and cross-border exposures are included.
Note a From 30th January 2007, India has been regarded as investment grade.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 79 Improving credit quality Risk management Loans and advances to customers Industry analysis Analysis of loan-to-value ratios of mortgages in the UK home An industry analysis of customer loans is shown in the chart below.
loan portfolio These classifications have been prepared at the level of the borrowing At most recent credit decision entity.
This means that a loan to the subsidiary of a major corporation is classified by the industry in which the subsidiary operates, even though 80 the parents predominant business may be in a different industry.
60 2006 50 Loans and advances to customers by industry % of total 40 Home loans 30 Financial services 20 10 Other personal 0 70-80% 80-90% 90% Business and other 70% Property The valuations in the chart are those which applied at the last credit decision on each loan, i. e. when the customer last requested an increase Wholesale and retail in the limit or, if there has been no increase, at inception of the loan and Manufacturing shows that the business flows new business versus loans redeemed has not materially changed the risk profile of the portfolio.
Finance lease The impact of house price inflation will result in a reduction in LTV ratios Energy and water within the mortgage book on a current valuation basis.
On this basis, LTV on the mortgage book averaged 34% at the end of 2006 2005: Transport 35%.
This ratio is a point in time analysis of the stock with LTV updated Construction to current house prices by reference to an external price index and as a result may be influenced by external market conditions as well as Agriculture 2006 changes in the stock of loans.
Postal and Comms 2005 Maturity analysis The analysis by contractual maturity, shown in the chart below, 02 5 10 15025 30354045 indicates that more than a third of loans to customers have a maturity of more than five years, the majority of which are mortgages.
Excluding financial services, the chart shows that Barclays largest sectoral exposures are to home loans, other personal and business and Maturity analysis of loans and advances to customers % other services.
These categories are generally comprised of small loans, have low volatility of credit risk outcomes, and are intrinsically highly 1.
Not more than 1 three months Just over two-thirds of the Groups home loans exposure is to customers 3.
The loan-to-value ratios LTV on the Groups UK home loan 2 months but 5 portfolio are indicated in the next chart.
Over one year but not more 4 4 than five years 5.
Over five years 2005 2006 See also Table 12 on page 100.
Barclays PLC 80 Annual Report 2006 Percentage of the mortgage portfolio 66 67 19 18 11 10 4 5 Operating review Risk management 1 Other credit risks Other credit risks another bank or other counterparty before receiving payment from the In addition to drawn loans and advances, Barclays is exposed to other other side.
The risk is that the counterparty may not meet its obligation.
These exposures comprise loan commitments, contingent While these exposures are of short duration, they can be large.
In recent liabilities, debt securities and other exposures arising in the course of years settlement risk has been reduced by several industry initiatives trading activities.
The risks are managed in a similar way to those in that have enabled simultaneous and final settlement of transactions to loans and advances, and are subject to the same or similar approval and be made such as  through Continuous governance processes.
The nature of the credit risks among these exposures differ Barclays has worked with its peers in the development of these considerably.
Increasingly the majority of high value transactions are Loan commitments may become funded loans and the risks are thus settled by such mechanisms.
Where these mechanisms are not similar to loans.
available, the risk is addressed by dealing predominantly with highly Contingent liabilities guarantees, assets pledged as security, rated counterparties, holding collateral and limiting the size of the acceptances and endorsements historically experience low loss exposures according to the rating of the counterparty, with smaller rates.
exposures to those of higher risk.
Losses arising from exposures held for trading derivatives, debt Debt securities securities are accounted for as trading losses, rather than credit Managing the risks associated with debt securities differs in two charges, even though the fall in value causing the loss may be important respects from the process for loans.
Firstly, a market price is attributable to credit deterioration.
generally available for a bond or other debt security, which gives a good Further details of these exposures are shown in the tables below and indicator of creditworthiness.
The financial position of the issuer still Note 39 to the accounts.
The most notable other credit risks are to needs to be assessed and monitored, just as with the borrower of a loan.
guarantees and irrevocable loan commitments, to settlement risk and Moreover, care needs to be taken when using market price as a proxy for to debt securities.
To give a simple example, if a bond pays a coupon lower than equivalent market yields, it will tend to trade at below par say 98 rather Guarantees and irrevocable loan commitments than 100 so as to realign the yield to market levels.
In this case, the The Group is exposed to loss through the financial guarantees it issues market is not expecting a credit loss of 2% of the face value of the bond.
to clients and commitments to provide loan finance which cannot be withdrawn once entered in to.
The credit risks associated with such A second key difference is that many debt securities are rated by contracts are managed in a similar way to loans and advances, and independent rating agencies, giving a further indicator of credit quality.
form part of the exposure at default measure.
However, even with continuous monitoring by the rating agencies, there is often a lag between a credit event and rerating.
So, while useful, Settlement risk external ratings can only inform and are not a substitute for the credit Barclays is exposed to settlement risk in its dealings with other financial assessment undertaken for each exposure by Barclays, using its own institutions.
These risks arise, for example, in foreign exchange grading system see page 78. transactions when Barclays pays away its side of the transaction to Other commercial commitments Amount of commitment expiration per period Between Between Total Less than one to three to After amounts one year three years five years five years committed m m m m m Acceptances and endorsements 281 6 287 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 23,130 1,966 4,048 2,108 31,252 Other contingent liabilities 5,364 1,016 498 1,002 7,880 Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 393 21 414 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 304 56 360 Standby facilities, credit lines and other 146,996 17,998 27,529 12,207 204,730 Contractual obligations Payments due by period Between Between Less than one to three to After one year three years five years five years Total m m m m m Long-term debt 84,802 10,644 4,709 19,346 119,501 Operating lease obligations 344 659 491 2,057 3,551 Purchase obligations 183 186 313 5 687 Total 85,329 11,489 5,513 21,408 123,739 The long-term debt does not include undated loan capital of 5,442m.
Further information on the contractual maturity of the Groups assets and liabilities is given in Note 56.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 81 Risk management Potential credit risk loans Potential credit risk loans NPL and PPL balances by location Non-performing loans and potential problem loans a NPLs by location m Potential Credit Risk Loans PCRLs comprise Non-Performing Loans NPLs and potential problem loans PPLs.
NPLs are loans where the customers have failed to meet their repayment commitments, either in part or in whole.
PPLs are loans where payment of principal and interest 6,000 is up-to-date and the loans are therefore fully performing, but where 5,000 serious doubt exists as to the ability of the borrowers to continue to 4,000 comply with repayment terms in the near future.
3,000 The amounts are shown before deduction of the value of security held, impairment allowances from 2005 onwards and provisions or interest 2,000 Non-UK suspense 2004 and earlier, all of which might reduce the impact of an 1,000 eventual loss, should it occur.
UK 0 The US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC requires loans to be b 02 03 04 05 06 classified, where applicable, as non-accrual, accruing past due 90 days IFRS UK GAAP or more, troubled debt restructurings and potential problem loans.
Whilst the Groups risk procedures do not include the classification of a PPLs by location m loans along these lines, historically balances have been reported based on the SEC categories but with additional categories reported to reflect the particular circumstances pertaining to the UK market.
With effect 1,600 from 1st January 2005, the application of IAS 39 required interest to be 1,400 recognised on the remaining balance of an impaired financial asset or 1,200 a group of financial assets at the effective interest rate for that asset.
As a result, interest is credited to the income statement in relation to 1,000 impaired loans, therefore these loans technically are not classified as 800 non-accrual but are, nonetheless, non-performing.
In order to reflect 600 this treatment under IAS 39, in 2005 the Group replaced the nonNon-UK 400 accrual category with one termed Impaired loans.
Impaired loans are 200 UK non-performing loans where, in general, an impairment allowance has 0 been raised.
This category may also include non-performing loans b 02 03 04 05 06 which are fully collateralised or where the indebtedness has already UK GAAP IFRS been written down to the expected realisable value.
See also Table 17 on page 102 and Table 18 on page 103.
Since 31st December 2005, NPL balances fell by 122m 2% to NPLs and PPLs as a percentage of Loans and Advances 5,088m.
In the retail portfolios, NPLs increased by 179m 5%, primarily in the UK unsecured cards and loans portfolios, while those NPLs Loans and Advances Ratio % in the wholesale portfolios including transition balances decreased by 301m 18% reflecting the divergent credit environments.
PPL balances decreased by 168m 18% during 2006 to 761m.
This 3.0 was primarily as a result of a fall in wholesale portfolios which decreased 2.5 by 202m to 404m reflecting the favourable credit environment.
2.0 As a result, overall PCRL balances fell by 288m 5% to 5,850m, in line with the 3% fall in impairment stocks see page 85.
1.5 1.0 As a result, NPL and PCRL balances as a percentage of impairment stock coverage ratios remained broadly stable see page 83.
0.5 0 b 02 03 04 05 06 UK GAAP IFRS PPLs Loans and Advances Ratio % 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 Notes a In 2002-2003, non-performing loans and potential problem loans were 0.2 disclosed, based on the location of the booking office.
In 2004-2006 they were disclosed by location of customers.
0 b Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became b 02 03 04 05 06 effective from 1st January 2005.
UK GAAP IFRS Barclays PLC 82 Annual Report 2006 0.7 2.7 1,162 4,668 0.7 2.3 1,327 4,305 0.4 1.8 798 4,115 0.3 1.7 929 5,210 0.2 1.6 761 5,088 Operating review Risk management 1 Allowances for impairment Allowances for impairment Impairment allowances provisions stock coverage of nonBarclays establishes, through charges against profit, an impairment performing loans and potential credit risk loans allowance for the incurred loss inherent in the lending book.
Impairment provisions coverage of NPLs % Under IFRS, impairment allowances are recognised where there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more loss events that have occurred after initial recognition, and where these events have 80 had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset 70 or portfolio of financial assets.
Impairment of loans and receivables is 60 measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the 50 present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial 40 assets original effective interest rate.
If the carrying amount is less than 30 the discounted cash flows, then no further allowance is necessary.
20 Impairment is measured individually for assets that are individually 10 significant, and collectively where a portfolio comprises homogenous 0 assets and where appropriate statistical techniques are available.
a 02 03 04 05 06 In terms of individual assessment, the trigger point for impairment is UK GAAP IFRS formal classification of an account as exhibiting serious financial See also Table 31 on page 107. problems and where any further deterioration is likely to lead to failure.
Two key inputs to the cash flow calculation are the valuation of all Impairment provisions coverage of PCRLs % security and collateral and the timing of all asset realisations, after allowing for all attendant costs.
This method applies in the corporate portfolios Business Banking, Barclays Capital and certain areas within 70 International Retail and Commercial Banking and Barclaycard.
60 For collective assessment, the trigger point for impairment is the 50 missing of a contractual payment.
The impairment calculation is based 40 on a roll-rate approach, where the percentage of assets that move from 30 the initial delinquency to default are derived from statistical probabilities based on experience.
Recovery amounts and contractual interest rates 20 are calculated using a weighted average for the relevant portfolio.
10 This method applies to parts of Global Retail and Commercial Banking 0 International, Barclaycard and UK Banking and is consistent with a 02 03 04 05 06 Barclays policy of raising an allowance as soon as impairment is UK GAAP IFRS identified.
Unidentified impairment allowances, albeit significantly lower in Including Absa, the NPL coverage ratio decreased to 65.6% 2005: amount than those reported above, are also raised to cover losses 66.2% whilst the PCRL coverage ratio increased to 57.0% 2005: which are judged to be incurred but not yet specifically identified in 56.2% at the end of 2006. customer exposures at the balance sheet date, and which, therefore, have not been specifically reported.
The incurred but not yet reported calculation is based on the assets probability of moving from the performing portfolio to being specifically identified as impaired within the given emergence period and then on to default within a specified period.
This is calculated on the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The emergence periods vary across businesses and are based on actual experience and are reviewed on an annual basis.
This methodology ensures that the Group only captures the loss incurred at the balance sheet date.
These impairment allowances are reviewed and adjusted at least quarterly by an appropriate charge or release of the stock of impairment allowances based on statistical analysis and management judgement.
Where appropriate, the accuracy of this analysis is periodically assessed against actual losses.
Note a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 83 52.8 65.9 54.6 71.5 56.0 66.9 56.2 66.2 57.0 65.6 Risk management Allowances for impairment Writing-off of assets The chart below shows impairment charges over the last five years.
After an advance has been identified as impaired and is subject to Impairment provisions charges over five years m an impairment allowance, the stage may be reached whereby it is concluded that there is no realistic prospect of further recovery.
Write-off will occur, when, and to the extent that, the whole or part of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
2,500 The timing and extent of write-offs may involve some element of 2,000 subjective judgement.
Nevertheless, a write-off will often be prompted 1,500 by a specific event, such as the inception of insolvency proceedings or other formal recovery action, which makes it possible to establish that 1,000 some or the entire advance is beyond realistic prospect of recovery.
In any event, the position of impaired loans is reviewed at least quarterly 500 to ensure that irrecoverable advances are being written off in a prompt and orderly manner and in compliance with any local regulations.
0 02 03 06 04 05 Such assets are only written off once all the necessary procedures have UK GAAP IFRS been completed and the amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are written Impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit provisions back and hence decrease the amount of the reported loan impairment increased 32% 501m to 2,068m 2005: 1,567m.
Excluding Absa, charge in the income statement.
the increase was 26% 395m and largely reflected the continued Total write-offs of impaired financial assets increased to 2,174m challenging credit environment in UK unsecured retail lending through 2005: 1,587m.
The wholesale and corporate sectors remained stable with a low level of defaults.
Treatment of interest on impaired loans IFRSs require that interest on impaired loans be recognised on the net The Group impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit asset value gross asset value less impairment allowance at the rate provisions as a percentage of year-end total loans and advances of used to discount the expected cash flows i. e. the original effective 316,561m 2005: 303,451m increased to 0.65% 2005: 0.52%.
Retail impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit Impairment charges for bad and doubtful debts provisions increased to 1,809m 2005: 1,254m, including 99m a b 2006 2005 2004 2005 : 10m in respect of Absa.
Retail impairment charges on loans m m m c and advances amounted to 1.30% 2005 : 0.93% as a percentage of c year-end total loans and advances of 139,350m 2005 : 134,420m, UK Banking 461 327 188 including balances in Absa of 20,090m 2005: 20,836m.
Barclaycard 1,493 1,098 761 International Retail and In the UK unsecured retail businesses, household discretionary cash Commercial Banking 167 32 31 flows remained under pressure leading to deterioration in consumer Barclays Capital 42 111 106 credit quality.
High debt levels and changing social attitudes to Barclays Global Investors bankruptcy and debt default contributed to increased impairment Barclays Wealth 2 2 1 charges.
In UK cards and unsecured consumer lending, the flows of Head office and other operations 11 18 new delinquencies and the levels of arrears balances declined in the second half of 2006, reflecting more selective customer recruitment Total impairment charges 2,154 1,571 1,093 limit management and improved collections.
Total impairment charges increased 37% 583m to 2,154m In UK Home Finance, delinquencies were flat and amounts charged-off 2005: 1,571m.
The weaker external environment led to increased credit delinquency in Local Business, where there were both higher balances on caution status and higher flows into delinquency, which both stabilised towards the year end.
In the wholesale and corporate businesses, impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit provisions decreased to 259m b 2005: 313m, including 27m 2005 : 10m in respect of Absa.
The fall was due mainly to recoveries in Barclays Capital as a result of the benign wholesale credit environment.
This was partially offset by an increase in UK Business Banking, reflecting higher charges in Medium Business and growth in lending balances.
Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005. b For 2005, this reflects the period from 27th July until 31st December 2005. c Prior year analysis of loans and advances between retail business and wholesale and corporate business has been reclassified to reflect enhanced methodology implemented in current year.
Barclays PLC 84 Annual Report 2006 1,484 1,347 1,093 1,571 2,154 Operating review 1 The wholesale and corporate impairment charge was 0.15% 2005: The total impairment charges and other credit provisions in Barclays 0.19% as a percentage of year-end total loans and advances of Capital included losses of 83m 2005: nil on an available for sale a 177,211m 2005 : 169,031m, including balances in Absa of portfolio where an intention to sell caused the losses to be viewed as 9,299m 2005: 9,731m.
other than temporary in nature.
b In Absa, impairment charges increased to 126m 2005 : 20m reflecting a full year of business and normalisation of credit conditions in South Africa following a period of low interest rates.
Movements in allowances for impairment on loans and advances m 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 e f Balance at Impairment Acquisitions Recoveries Adjustments Amounts Balance d g 31st Dec 05 charged against and Disposals written off at 31st Dec 06 c profit Total impairment allowances at the end of 2006 decreased by 3% 115m to 3,335m from the previous year 2005: 3,450m.
An analysis of all movements in the impairment balance is shown in the following chart.
Notes a Prior year analysis of loans and advances between retail business and wholesale and corporate business has been reclassified to reflect enhanced methodology implemented in current year.
b For 2005, this reflects the period from 27th July until 31st December 2005. c Represents the increase in the allowance for the period following the Groups assessment of the recoverability of its loans and receivables, in accordance with IAS 39. d Represents net of allowances brought in from new subsidiaries acquired and allowances released following disposal of assets in the year.
e Represents recoveries of amounts previously written off.
f Includes unwind of discount and other adjustments.
g Balances are written off when it is considered that there is no possibility of making further recoveries.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 85 Movements 3,450 2,074 23 259 251 2,174 3,335 Risk management Market risk management Market risk management Market risk management and control responsibilities Market risk is the risk that Barclays earnings or capital, or its ability to The Board approves the market risk appetite for all types of market risk.
meet business objectives, will be adversely affected by changes in the The Market Risk Director is responsible for the market risk control level or volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, credit framework and, under delegated authority from the Risk Director, sets a spreads, commodity prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates.
limit framework within the context of the approved market risk appetite.
A daily market risk report summarises Barclays market risk exposures The main market risks arise from trading activities.
Barclays is also against agreed limits.
This daily report is sent to the Risk Director, the exposed to non-trading market risks relating to asset and liability Market Risk Director, the Finance Director and the appropriate Business management and to the Pension Fund.
Categorisation of market risk The Head of each business, assisted by the business risk management To facilitate the management, control, measurement and reporting team, is accountable for identifying, measuring and managing all of market risk, Barclays has grouped market risk into three broad market risks associated with its activities.
Oversight and support is categories: provided by the Market Risk Director, assisted by the central market risk team.
Trading market risk These risks arise in trading transactions where Barclays acts as In Barclays Capital, the Head of Market Risk is responsible for principal with clients or with the market.
Barclays policy is that implementing the market risk control framework.
Day to day market risks arising from trading activities are concentrated in responsibility for market risk lies with the senior management of Barclays Capital.
Barclays Capital, supported by the Market Risk Management team that Asset and liability risk operates independently of the trading areas.
Daily market risk reports These risks arise from banking activities, including those incurred are produced for the main Barclays Capital business areas covering the on non-trading positions such as customer assets and liabilities six main risk factor categories, namely interest rate, inflation, credit and capital balances.
spread, commodity, equity and foreign exchange.
A more detailed Other market risks trading market risk presentation is produced fortnightly and discussed Barclays also incurs market risks that are assessed under a slightly at Barclays Capitals Traded Products Risk Review meeting.
The principal risks of this type are defined attendees at this meeting include the senior managers from Barclays benefit pension scheme risk and asset management structural Capital and the central market risk team.
Outside Barclays Capital, Treasury manages treasury market risk and structural risk.
Retail market risk, a consequence of the UK banking operations, is managed by the Retail Market Risk team.
In the non-UK banking operations, market risk is managed mainly by local treasuries.
The chart overleaf gives an overview of the business control structure.
Risk type managed by and reviewed by market risk and Trading risk Barclays Capital Traded Products Risk Review Committee.
Asset and liability risk Treasury Treasury Committee.
Market risk Retail market risk Business-level Asset and Liability Committees.
Overseas Treasuries Business-level Asset and Liability Committees.
Barclays Market risk supervision visits.
Other market risks Other Barclays Pension Board.
Respective business areas, primarily Asset management.
Barclays PLC 86 Annual Report 2006 Operating review 1 Market risk measurement Trading market risk The techniques used to measure and control market risk include: Barclays policy is to concentrate trading activities in Barclays Capital.
This includes transactions where Barclays Capital acts as principal with Daily Value at Risk: clients or with the market.
For maximum efficiency, Barclays manages Stress Tests: client and market activities together.
In Barclays Capital, trading risk Annual Earnings at Risk: occurs in both the trading book and the banking book as defined for Economic capital.
Daily value at risk DVaR In anticipation of future customer demand, Barclays maintains access DVaR is an estimate of the potential loss which might arise from to market liquidity by quoting bid and offer prices with other market unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were to be makers and carries an inventory of capital market and treasury held unchanged for one business day, measured to a confidence level instruments, including a broad range of cash, securities and derivatives.
Daily losses exceeding the DVaR figure are likely to occur, on Trading positions and any offsetting hedges are established as average, twice in every 100 business days.
appropriate to accommodate customer or Barclays requirements.
In Barclays Capital, DVaR is an important market risk measurement tool.
Derivatives entered into for trading purposes include swaps, forward DVaR is calculated using the historical simulation method with a rate agreements, futures, credit derivatives, options and combinations historical sample of two years.
For a description of the nature of derivative instruments, see page 94.
The effectiveness of the DVaR model is assessed principally by backtesting which counts the number of days when trading-related losses Analysis of trading market risk exposures are bigger than the estimated DVaR figure.
Back-testing results are The table below shows the DVaR statistics for Barclays Capitals trading shown on page 88.
Outside Barclays Capital, Barclays uses a simplified activities trading book and banking book.
Total DVaR as at 31st December 2006 was 41.9m 31st December c Stress tests 2005: 37.6m.
Barclays Capitals market risk exposure, as measured Stress tests provide an indication of the potential size of losses that by average total Daily Value at Risk DVaR, increased by 16% to 37.1m a could arise in extreme conditions.
The stress tests carried out by 2005: 32.0m.
Interest rate risk fell while non-interest rate risks were Barclays Capital include risk factor stress testing where stress higher, primarily in commodities.
The range of total DVaR between high movements are applied to each of the six main risk categories, namely and low was consistent with 2005 and diversification across risk types interest rate, inflation, credit spread, commodity, equity and foreign remained significant, reflecting the broad business mix.
exchange rate: emerging market stress testing where emerging market Barclays Capital DVaR: Summary table for 2006 and 2005 portfolios are subject to stress movements: and ad hoc stress testing, 12 months to which includes applying stress scenarios to the trading risk book.
31st December 2006 If the potential stress loss exceeds the trigger limit, the positions b b Average High Low captured by the stress test are reviewed and discussed by Barclays m m m Capital market risk and the respective Barclays Capital Business Interest rate risk 20.1 28.8 12.3 Head s. The minutes of the discussion, including the merits of the Credit spread risk 24.3 33.1 17.9 position and the appropriate course of action, are then sent to the Commodities risk 11.3 21.6 5.7 Market Risk Director for review.
Equities risk 7.8 11.6 5.8 Outside Barclays Capital, stress testing is carried out by the business Foreign exchange risk 4.0 7.7 1.8 Diversification effect 30.4 n a n a centres and is reviewed by the senior management and business-level asset and liability committees.
The stress testing is tailored to the Total DVaR 37.1 43.2 31.3 business and is typically scenario analysis and historical stress movements applied to respective portfolios.
12 months to Annual earnings at risk AEaR a 31st December 2005 AEaR measures the sensitivity of annual earnings to shocks in b b Average High Low market rates at the 99th percentile for change over a one-year period.
m m m This shock is consistent with the standardised interest rate shock Interest rate risk 25.4 44.8 15.4 recommended by the Basel II framework for assessing banking book interest rate risk.
Credit spread risk 23.0 28.3 19.0 Commodities risk 6.8 11.4 4.5 AEaR is used to measure structural interest rate market risk and Equities risk 6.0 8.3 3.9 structural asset management risk see the Other market risks section Foreign exchange risk 2.8 5.4 1.6 page 88 for more details.
Diversification effect 32.0 n a n a Economic capital Total DVaR 32.0 40.7 25.4 Economic capital methodologies calculate market risk sensitive capital allocations and are used to determine each businesss capital charge.
The increase reflects the inclusion of Absa Capital.
b The high and low DVaR figures reported for each category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the high and low DVaR reported as a whole.
Consequently, a diversification effect number for the high and low DVaR figures would not be meaningful and it is therefore omitted from the above table.
c This was previously reported as 37.4m.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 87 Risk management Market risk management The graph below shows the history of total DVaR on a daily basis for DVaR Back-testing 2005 and 2006.
Barclays recognises the importance of assessing the effectiveness of its DVaR model.
The main approach employed is the technique known as DVaR in 2005 and 2006 daily values m back-testing, which counts the number of days when trading losses exceed the estimated DVaR figure.
The regulatory standard for backtesting is to measure DVaR assuming a one-day holding period with a 50 99% level of confidence.
For Barclays Capitals regulatory trading book, there were no instances in 2006 or 2005, of a daily trading revenue loss exceeding the corresponding back-testing DVaR.
40 Asset and liability market risk 30 Interest rate exposures arising from mismatches of fixed rate assets and liabilities in UK banking operations are passed to Treasury where these 20 positions are aggregated and the net position passed to the market via Barclays Capital.
Due mainly to timing considerations, market risk can 0 arise when some of the net position stays with Treasury.
Similarly, market risk can arise due to the impact of interest rates on customer 05 06 behaviour.
The latter risk is managed and measured by the Retail Market Analysis of trading revenue Risk Team using behavioural models.
The positions are converted into The histograms below show the distribution of daily trading revenue wholesale swap or option exposures, passed to Treasury and managed for Barclays Capital in 2006 and 2005.
It includes dealing profits, net by the process described above.
interest income and net fees and commissions relating to primary Structural interest rate risk arises from the variability of income from trading.
The average daily revenue in 2006 was 22.0m 2005: 16.3m non-interest bearing products, managed variable rate products and the and there were 243 positive revenue days out of 252 2005: 237 positive Groups equity.
Structural foreign currency risk results from holding revenue days out of 252. non-Sterling investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates or joint Barclays Capitals trading revenue 2006 m ventures.
These structural risks are managed by Treasury.
Market risk is also taken in overseas treasuries to support and facilitate customer activity.
The risk is comparatively modest.
The market risks 60 are managed by local treasury functions and local asset and liability committees.
The central market risk team maintains regular contact with the businesses and oversees a comprehensive risk reporting 40 framework.
Other market risks 20 Defined benefit pension scheme risk Barclays maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for past and current employees.
The ability of the Pension Fund to meet 0 the projected pension payments is maintained through investments.
0 0 1 to 5 to 10 to 15 to 20 to 25 to 30 to 35 to 40 to 45 Market risk arises because the estimated market value of the pension 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 fund assets might decline or their investment returns might reduce or because the estimated value of the pension liabilities might increase.
In Revenue m these circumstances, Barclays could be required or might choose to Barclays Capitals trading revenue 2005 m make extra contributions to the pension fund.
Financial details of the pension fund are in Note 35.
Asset management structural market risk 60 Asset management structural market risk is the risk that the value of funds managed by Barclays on behalf of clients might reduce leading to a reduction in fee and commission income.
It affects Barclays Global 40 Investors, Global Retail and Commercial Banking, Barclays Wealth and Barclays Life.
The risk is controlled and managed by the respective businesses and the central market risk team.
20 0 0 1 to 40 to 45 0 5 to 10 to 15 to 20 to 25 to 30 to 35 to 45 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Revenue m Barclays PLC 88 Annual Report 2006 Number of days Number of days 8 8 7 1 12 9 45 23 59 30 49 42 35 42 15 31 12 24 6 12 3 10 8 13 Operating review Risk management 1 Capital and liquidity risk management Capital and liquidity risk management Liquidity management within the Group has several strands: The Board Risk Committee has approved minimum control Day to day funding, managed by monitoring expected cash flows to requirements for capital and liquidity risk management.
ensure that requirements can be met.
This includes replenishment The Treasurer has established risk control frameworks and a policy and of funds as they mature or are borrowed by customers.
The Group assurance structure to ensure that capital and liquidity risks are managed maintains an active presence in global money markets to enable that in accordance with the requirements of the Board.
Policies are set by the to happen.
Treasury Committee which is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
Maintain a portfolio of highly marketable assets that can easily be liquidated as protection against any unforeseen interruption Capital risk management to cash flow.
The Group manages its capital resources to meet regulatory capital Monitor, manage and control intraday liquidity in real time is requirements.
The FSA requires the Group to hold sufficient capital recognised by the Group as a mission critical process: any failure resources to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements.
In to meet specific intraday commitments would have significant addition, the Group manages its capital resources to maintain financial consequences.
holding company status under the rules of the US Federal Reserve Bank Stress testing is undertaken to assess and plan for the impact of and also to ensure Group entities, that are subject to local capital various scenarios which may put the Groups liquidity at risk.
adequacy regulation in individual countries, meet their minimum capital requirements.
The ability to raise funds is in part dependent on maintaining the Banks credit rating.
The funding impact of a credit downgrade is regularly Minimum requirements under FSA rules are expressed as the ratio estimated.
Whilst the impact of a single downgrade may affect the price of capital resources to risk weighted assets Risk Asset Ratio.
Risk at which funding is available, the effect on liquidity is not considered weighted assets are a function of risk weights applied to the Groups material in Group terms.
assets using calculations developed by the Basel Committee for Banking Supervision.
In anticipation of the Groups implementation of the new Liquidity risk measurement Basel II standards on 1st January 2008, the Group will also manage its Monitoring and reporting take the form of cash flow measurement and capital resources in accordance with the Basel II advanced approaches projections for the next day, week and month as these are key periods during 2007. for liquidity management.
This is based on principles agreed by the FSA.
In 2006, the Group continued to manage its capital resources, including In addition to cash flow management, Treasury also monitors accessing the capital markets, in order to exceed the minimum capital unmatched medium-term assets and the level and type of undrawn requirements of its regulators.
As at December 2006, the Barclays lending commitments, the usage of overdraft facilities and the impact of Group Risk Asset Ratio was 11.7% and the Tier 1 Ratio was 7.7%.
contingent liabilities such as standby letters of credit and guarantees.
The graph shows the Groups regulatory capital resources broken down Treasury develops and implements stress tests on the Groups projected by tier.
Further information on the Groups capital resources is provided cash flows.
The output informs the Groups contingency funding plan.
in the Financial Review on pages 58 and 60.
This is maintained by Treasury and is aligned with the Group and country business resumption plans to encompass decision-making Regulatory capital resources by tier m authorities, internal and external communication and, in the event of a systems failure, the restoration of liquidity management and payment systems.
35,000 Sources of liquidity are regularly reviewed to maintain a wide diversification by currency, geography, provider, product and term.
30,000 Whilst the past year saw relatively stable markets, with no significant 25,000 consequences for the Groups liquidity, significant market events over 20,000 recent years including corporate scandals contributed to a short-term 15,000 flight to quality in financial markets from which Barclays benefited.
10,000 a Tiers 2 and 3 An important source of structural liquidity is provided by our core retail 5,000 deposits in the UK, Europe and Africa, mainly current accounts and Tier 1 savings accounts.
Although current accounts are repayable on demand 0 and savings accounts at short notice, the Groups broad base of 05 06 customers numerically and by depositor type helps to protect Liquidity risk management against unexpected fluctuations.
Such accounts form a stable funding This is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations when base for the Groups operations and liquidity needs.
they fall due and to replace funds when they are withdrawn, with To avoid reliance on a particular group of customers or market sectors, consequent failure to repay depositors and fulfil commitments to lend.
The risk that it will be unable to do so is inherent in all banking the distribution of sources and the maturity profile of deposits are also carefully managed.
Important factors in assuring liquidity are operations and can be impacted by a range of institution specific and market-wide events including, but not limited to, credit events, merger competitive rates and the maintenance of depositors confidence.
Such confidence is based on a number of factors including the Groups and acquisition activity, systemic shocks and natural disasters.
reputation, the strength of earnings and the Groups financial position.
For further details see contractual cash obligations and commercial commitments of the Group on page 81.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 89 30,502 34,711 Risk management Operational risk and business risk management Operational risk and business risk management The management and measurement of operational risk Operational and business risks are inherent in Barclays operations and A consistent approach to the identification and assessment of key risks are typical of any large enterprise.
and controls is undertaken across all business units.
Self-assessment techniques are used by business management for risk identification Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect losses resulting from and for evaluation of control effectiveness and monitoring capability.
inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human factors, Business management determines whether particular risks are or from external events.
Major sources of operational risk include: effectively managed within business risk appetite and otherwise take operational process reliability, IT security, outsourcing of operations, remedial action.
The risk assessment process is consistent with the dependence on key suppliers, implementation of strategic change, principles in the integrated framework published by the Committee integration of acquisitions, fraud, error, customer service quality, of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
regulatory compliance, recruitment, training and retention of staff, and social and environmental impacts.
Risk event data collection and reporting A standard process is used Group-wide for the recognition, capture, Business risk is the risk of adverse outcomes resulting from a weak assessment, analysis and reporting of risk events.
This process is used competitive position or from poor choice of strategy, markets, products, to help identify where process and control requirements are needed to activities or structures.
Major potential sources of business risk include: reduce the recurrence of risk events.
Risk events are loaded onto a revenue volatility due to factors such as macroeconomic conditions: central database and reported monthly to the Operational Risk inflexible cost structures: uncompetitive products or pricing: and Executive Committee.
Barclays also uses a database of external public risk events and is part Barclays is committed to the advanced management of operational of a consortium of international banks that share anonymised loss data and business risks.
In particular, we are implementing improved information to assist in risk identification and assessment.
management and measurement approaches for operational risk to strengthen control, improve customer service and minimise operating Key risk scenarios losses.
In addition, this investment is being made to improve risk Using the above components of the Operational Risk Framework sensitivity, to enhance the Operational Risk Capital model and to obtain we generate Key Risk Scenarios which identify our most significant approval to apply the Advanced Measurement Approach under the operational risks across the Group.
It is these that are the main input Basel II Accord when that option first becomes available in 2008. to our economic capital model.
Barclays works closely with peer banks to benchmark our internal Reporting Operational Risk practices and to drive the development of advanced Business units are required to report on both a regular and an eventOperational Risk techniques across the industry.
The reports include a profile of the key risks to their It is not cost effective to attempt to eliminate all operational and business business objectives, control issues of Group-level significance, and risks and in any event it would not be possible to do so.
Events of small operational risk events.
Specific reports are prepared on a regular basis significance are expected to occur and are accepted as inevitable: events for the Risk Oversight Committee, the Board Risk Committee and the of material significance are rare and the Group seeks to reduce the risk Board Audit Committee.
In particular the Group Operational Risk Profile from these in a framework consistent with its agreed Risk Appetite.
Report is provided quarterly to the Risk Oversight Committee.
Responsibility for and control of operational risk Economic capital Barclays has a Group Operational Risk Framework, which is consistent Methodologies are used to model both operational and business risk with and part of the Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework.
These are allocated, on a risk sensitive basis, to business Minimum control requirements have been established for all key areas units in the form of economic capital charges, providing an incentive to of identified risk.
The risk categories relevant to operational and manage these risks within appetite levels.
business risks are: Financial Crime, Financial Reporting, Taxation, Legal, Operations, People, Regulatory Compliance, Technology, Brand Management, Change, Corporate Responsibility and Strategic.
Responsibility for implementing and overseeing these policies is to be found throughout the organisation as follows: The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk and the compliance with control requirements rests with the business and functional units where the risk arises.
Frontline risk managers are widely distributed throughout the Group in business units.
They service and support these areas assisting line managers in managing these risks.
Business Risk Directors in each business are responsible for overseeing the implementation of and compliance with Group policies.
Governance and Control Committees in each business monitor control effectiveness.
The Group Governance and Control Committee receive reports from the committees in the businesses and considers Group-wide control issues and their risk mitigation.
In the corporate centre, the Operational Risk Director oversees the range of operational risks across the Group in accordance with the Group Operational Risk Framework.
The Internal Audit function provides assurance for operational risk control across the organisation and reports to the Board and senior management.
Barclays PLC 90 Annual Report 2006 Operating review Risk management 1 Group model policy and taxation risk management Group model policy Taxation risk Barclays has a large number of models in place across the Group, The Group is subject to the tax laws in all countries in which it operates.
covering all risk types, including Credit Risk, Market Risk, Operational A number of double taxation agreements entered between countries Risk, and Finance.
To minimise the risk of loss through model failure, also impact on the taxation of the Group.
The Group is also subject to a Group Policy for the Control of Model Risk has been developed.
The Policy helps reduce the potential for model failure by setting Tax risk is the risk associated with changes in tax law or in the minimum standards around the end-to-end model development and interpretation of tax law.
It also includes the risk of changes in tax implementation process.
The Policy also sets the Group governance rates and the risk of failure to comply with procedures required by processes for all models, which allows model risk to be monitored tax authorities.
across the Group, and seeks to identify and escalate any potential problems at an early stage.
Failure to manage tax risks could lead to an additional tax charge.
It could also lead to a financial penalty for failure to comply with The key areas where minimum requirements are defined are: required tax procedures or other aspects of tax law.
If, as a result Model materiality of a particular tax risk materialising, the tax costs associated with To help ensure that sufficient management time is spent on the more particular transactions are greater than anticipated, it could affect material models, there is a method of providing each model with a the profitability of those transactions.
The materiality rating for an individual model The Group takes a responsible and transparent approach to the depends on the assets for which the model is used and the Expected management and control of its tax affairs and related tax risk.
Loss and Economic Capital associated with the assets.
Models of higher materiality are subject to higher levels of independent scrutiny tax risks are assessed as part of the Groups formal governance and challenge prior to implementation.
processes and are reviewed by the Executive Committee, Group Finance Director and the Board Risk Committee: Model documentation the tax charge is also reviewed by the Board Audit Committee.
Documentation should be sufficiently detailed to allow an expert to the tax risks of proposed transactions or new areas of business are recreate the model from the original data sources.
It must include a fully considered before proceeding: description of the data used for model development, the methodology the Group takes appropriate advice from reputable professional used and the rationale for choosing such a methodology, a description firms: of any assumptions used in the model, and details of where the model the Group employs high-quality tax professionals and provides works well, and areas that are known as model weaknesses.
ongoing technical training: Initial model validation the tax professionals understand and work closely with the different All models are subject to a validation and independent review process areas of the business: before the model can be signed-off for implementation.
The model the Group uses effective, well-documented and controlled processes validation exercise must demonstrate that the model is fit for purpose to ensure compliance with tax disclosure and filing obligations.
The independent review process will where disputes arise with tax authorities with regard to the also ensure that all aspects of the model development process have interpretation and application of tax law, the Group is committed to been performed in a suitable manner.
addressing the matter promptly and resolving the matter with the tax authority in an open and constructive manner.
Model sign-off The rules for model sign-off are based on model materiality.
The sign-off process ensures that the model is technically fit for purpose as well as ensuring that the model satisfies the business requirements and all the relevant regulatory requirements.
The most material models used within the Group receive their final sign-off for implementation from Group ExCo, while other models are usually signed-off by their respective business risk committees.
Basel II models Barclays has spent a considerable amount of time in developing and upgrading a number of credit risk models across the Group moving towards compliance with the Basel II advanced approach.
As part of this process all Basel credit risk models are assessed against the Basel II minimum requirements prior to model sign-off to ensure that once signed-off they are fit to be used for regulatory purposes.
Basel II models will also be used during the 2007 parallel run process in anticipation of implementation from 1st January 2008 in accordance with Basel requirements.
Ongoing model validation and monitoring All models within the Group are subject to an annual review, to ensure that the models are working well, and that assumptions used in model development are still appropriate.
All credit risk models can also be subject to more frequent monitoring.
Model performance monitoring ensures that deficiencies in models are identified early, and remedial action can be taken before the deficiency becomes serious and affects the decision-making process.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 91 Risk management Insurance risk management Disclosures about certain trading activities including Insurance risk is the risk that the Group will have to make higher than non-exchange traded commodity contracts anticipated payments to settle claims arising from its long-term and The Group delivers a fully integrated service to clients for base metals, short-term insurance businesses.
precious metals, oil and oil-related products, power, natural gas and other related commodities.
Long-term insurance business For long-term insurance contracts where death is the insured risk, the The Groups commodity business continues to expand, as market most significant factors that could detrimentally affect the frequency conditions allow, through the addition of new products and markets, and severity of claims are the incidence of disease, such as AIDS, or with the 2006 expansion of business being driven by both organic general changes in lifestyle, such as in eating, exercise and smoking.
growth and acquisitions of portfolios.
Where survival is the insured risk, advances in medical care and social The Group offers both over the counter OTC and exchange traded conditions are the key factors that increase longevity.
The Group derivatives in these commodities.
The Groups base metals business manages its exposure to risk by operating in part as a unit linked also enters into outright metal purchases and sale transactions, while business, prudent product design, applying strict underwriting criteria, the power and gas business trades both physical forwards and transferring risk to reinsurers, managing claims and establishing derivative contracts.
The Group does not maintain any physical prudent reserves.
exposures in oil or oil related products.
The Group continues to develop Short-term insurance business and offer a range of commodity-related structured products.
For payment protection contracts where inability to make payments The Groups principal commodity related derivative contracts are swaps, under a loan contract is the insured risk, the most significant factors are options, forwards and futures, which are all similar in nature to such the health of the policyholder and the possibility of unemployment non-commodity related contracts.
Commodity derivative contracts which depends upon, among other things, long-term and short-term include commodity specification and delivery location as well as economic factors.
The Group manages its exposure to such risks forward date and notional value.
through prudent product design, efficient claims management, prudent reserving methodologies and bases, regular product, economic and The fair values of commodity physical and derivative positions are market reviews and regular adequacy tests on the size of the reserves.
determined through a combination of recognised market observable prices, exchange prices, and established inter-commodity relationships.
Absa insures property and motor vehicles, for which the most The fair value of OTC commodity derivative contracts is determined significant factors that could affect the frequency and severity of claims primarily by using valuation models which are based on assumptions are climatic change and crime.
Absa manages its exposure to risk by supported by prices from observable market transactions in the same diversifying insurance risks accepted and transferring risk to reinsurers.
instrument or are based on available observable market data.
See page 236 for further information.
Where a valuation model is used, the fair value is determined based on Reinsurer credit risk the expected cash flows under the terms of each specific contract, For the long-term business, reinsurance programmes are in place to discounted back to present value.
The expected cash flows for each restrict the amount of cover to any single life.
The reinsurance cover is contract are either determined using market parameters such as spread across highly rated companies to diversify the risk of reinsurer commodity price curves, commodity volatilities, commodity solvency.
Net of insurance reserves include a margin to reflect reinsurer correlations, interest rate yield curves and foreign exchange rates, credit risk.
For the short-term business a quota-share programme is in place for Where possible, fair values generated by models are independently selected in-force policies.
The structure of the treaty ensures that the validated with reference to market price quotes or price sharing with underlying assets are bankruptcy remote in the event of credit problems other institutions.
Where all significant model inputs can be validated to with the reinsurer.
observable market data at the inception of the contract the valuation of the contract is based on the model value output.
However, where no observable market parameter is available then the contract is valued at transaction price at inception.
Following initial recognition, the process of calculating fair value from a valuation model may require estimation of certain pricing parameters, assumptions or model characteristics.
These estimates are calibrated against industry standards, economic models and observed transaction prices.
The valuation model used for a particular instrument, the quality and liquidity of market data used for pricing, other fair value adjustments not specifically captured by the model, market data and any assumptions or estimates are all subject to internal review and approval procedures and consistent application between accounting periods.
The tables on page 93 analyse the overall fair value of the commodity derivative contracts by movement over time and source of fair value.
Additionally, the positive fair value of these contracts is analysed by counterparty credit risk rating.
Barclays PLC 92 Annual Report 2006 Operating review 1 The following tables analyse the overall fair value of the commodity derivative contracts by movement over time and source of fair value.
As at 31st December 2006 this reflects a gross positive fair value of 17,502m 31st December 2005: 21,744m and a gross negative value of 15,940m 31st December 2005: 21,217m.
Realised and unrealised profits relating to physical commodity and commodity derivative activities are included within dealing profits.
Physical commodity positions are held at fair value and reported under the Trading Portfolio in Note 12 on page 174.
Total Total 2006 2005 m m Fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the period 527 175 Contracts realised or otherwise settled during the period 379 137 Fair value of new contracts entered into during the period 808 156 Other changes in fair values 152 333 Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period 1,562 527 Movement in fair value of commodity derivative positions Fair value source and maturity analysis Fair value of contracts at 31st December 2006 Maturity Maturity Maturity in Total less than one to excess of fair one year five years five years value Source of fair value m m m m Valuation models supported by observable market data 893 322 315 1,536 Valuation models not supported by observable market data 9 6 17 26 Total 902 328 332 1,562 The following table analyses the positive fair value arising on commodity derivative contracts.
As at 31st December 2006, this reflected a gross positive fair value of 17,501m 31st December 2005: 21,744m.
Analysis of gross positive commodity derivative fair value by counterparty credit risk rating Total Total value value 2006 2005 a S&P equivalent rating m m Ato AAA 14,184 12,234 BBBto BBB 1,826 8,726 BB and below 1,491 784 Total 17,501 21,744 Credit risk exposures are actively managed by the Group.
Refer to page 76 for more information on the Groups approach to credit risk management.
At 31st December 2006, 87% of all commodities credit exposure was to counterparties with cross asset class netting agreements which allow exposure on commodities products to be reduced by amounts owed to the same counterparties in other asset classes.
69% of commodities credit exposure to counterparties with BBB and below equivalent ratings was to counterparties with cross asset class netting agreements.
Additionally, collateral agreements are held with a majority of these same counterparties that allow collateral to be called against commodity exposures.
All non-collateralised exposures are subject to credit limits, and credit or Risk Tendency reserves are created against these exposures if appropriate.
Note a Barclays assesses the credit quality and assigns an internal risk rating to all counterparties.
Each internal rating corresponds to the statistical probability of a counterparty in that rating class defaulting within the next 12-month period.
The counterparty ratings shown in the table above are based on the approximate S&P equivalent of the Barclays internal rating.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 93 Risk management Derivatives Derivatives Interest rate derivatives The use of derivatives and their sale to customers as risk management The Groups principal interest rate related contracts are interest rate products are an integral part of the Groups trading activities.
These swaps, forward rate agreements, basis swaps, caps, floors and instruments are also used to manage the Groups own exposure to swaptions.
Included in this product category are transactions that fluctuations in interest, exchange rates and commodity and equity include combinations of these features.
prices as part of its asset and liability management activities.
An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange Barclays Capital manages the trading derivatives book as part of the fixed rate and floating rate interest by means of periodic payments market risk book.
This includes foreign exchange, interest rate, equity, based upon a notional principal amount and the interest rates defined commodity and credit derivatives.
The policies regarding market risk in the contract.
Certain agreements combine interest rate and foreign management are outlined in the market risk management section on currency swap transactions, which may or may not include the pages 86 to 88. exchange of principal amounts.
A basis swap is a form of interest rate swap, in which both parties exchange interest payments based on The policies for derivatives that are used to manage the Groups own floating rates, where the floating rates are based upon different exposure to interest and exchange rate fluctuations are outlined in the underlying reference indices.
In a forward rate agreement, two parties asset and liability market risk section on page 88. agree a future settlement of the difference between an agreed rate Derivative instruments are contracts whose value is derived from one and a future interest rate, applied to a notional principal amount.
or more underlying financial instruments or indices defined in the The settlement, which generally occurs at the start of the contract contract.
They include swaps, forward rate agreements, futures, options period, is the discounted present value of the payment that would and combinations of these instruments and primarily affect the Groups otherwise be made at the end of that period.
net interest income, net trading income, net fee and commission Credit derivatives income and derivative assets and liabilities.
Notional amounts of the The Groups principal credit derivative-related contracts include credit contracts are not recorded on the balance sheet.
default swaps and total return swaps.
A credit derivative is an The Group participates both in exchange traded and over the counter arrangement whereby the credit risk of an asset the reference asset derivatives markets.
is transferred from the buyer to the seller of protection.
Exchange traded derivatives A credit default swap is a contract where the protection seller receives The Group buys and sells financial instruments that are traded or premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to make cleared on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, futures and payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event.
Holders of exchange traded instruments provide events normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a reference margin daily with cash or other security at the exchange, to which the asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
holders look for ultimate settlement.
A total return swap is an instrument whereby the seller of protection Over the counter traded derivatives receives the full return of the asset, including both the income and The Group also buys and sells financial instruments that are traded over change in the capital value of the asset.
The buyer in return receives the counter, rather than on a recognised exchange.
These instruments range from commoditised transactions in derivative Equity derivatives markets, to trades where the specific terms are tailored to the The Groups principal equity-related contracts are equity and stock requirements of the Groups customers.
In many cases, industry index swaps and options including warrants, which are equity options standard documentation is used, most commonly in the form of listed on an exchange.
An equity swap is an agreement between two a master agreement, with individual transaction confirmations.
parties to exchange periodic payments, based upon a notional principal The existence of a signed master agreement is intended to give the amount, with one side paying fixed or floating interest and the other Group protection in situations where a counterparty is in default.
side paying based on the actual return of the stock or stock index.
An equity option provides the buyer with the right, but not the Foreign exchange derivatives obligation, either to purchase or sell a specified stock, basket of stocks The Groups principal exchange rate related contracts are forward or stock index at a specified price or level on or before a specified date.
foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and currency options.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are agreements to buy or sell a Commodity derivatives specified quantity of foreign currency, usually on a specified future date The Groups principal commodity-related derivative contracts are at an agreed rate.
A currency swap generally involves the exchange, or swaps, options, forwards and futures.
The main commodities notional exchange, of equivalent amounts of two currencies and a transacted are base metals, precious metals, oil and oil-related commitment to exchange interest periodically until the principal products, power and natural gas.
amounts are re-exchanged on a future date.
Currency options provide the buyer with the right, but not the obligation, either to purchase or sell a fixed amount of a currency at a specified exchange rate on or before a future date.
As compensation for assuming the option risk, the option writer generally receives a premium at the start of the option period.
Barclays PLC 94 Annual Report 2006 Operating review Risk management 1 Statistical information Statistical and other risk information This section of the report contains supplementary information that is more detailed or contains longer histories than the data presented in the discussion.
For commentary on this information, please refer to the preceding text pages 76 to 107.
Barclays applied International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS with effect from 1st January 2004, with the exception of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4, which were applied from 1st January 2005.
N a has been included in the tables where, as a result of the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 in 2005 and UK GAAP in 2004, the disclosure is not applicable.
Credit risk management Table 1: Risk Tendency by business 2006 2005 m m UK Banking 515 430 UK Retail Banking 225 180 UK Business Banking 290 250 Barclaycard 1,410 1,100 International Retail and Commercial Banking 220 175 International Retail and Commercial Banking excluding Absa 75 75 International Retail and Commercial Banking Absa 145 100 Barclays Capital 95 110 Barclays Wealth 10 5 a Head office functions and other operations 10 25 Risk Tendency by business 2,260 1,845 Also see chart on page 77.
Table 2: Loans and advances 2006 2005 m m Retail businesses Banks Customers 139,350 134,420 b Total retail businesses 139,350 134,420 Wholesale businesses Banks 30,930 31,109 Customers 146,281 137,922 b Total wholesale businesses 177,211 169,031 Loans and advances 316,561 303,451 Notes a Head office functions and other operations comprises discontinued business in transition.
b Prior year analysis of loans and advances between retail business and wholesale and corporate business has been reclassified to reflect enhanced methodology implemented in the current year.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 95 Risk management Statistical information Table 3: Maturity analysis of loans and advances to banks Over three Over six Over one Over three Over five months months but year years years Not more but not not more but not but not but not than three more than than one more than more than more than Over On demand months six months year three years five years ten years ten years Total At 31st December 2006 m m m m m m m m m United Kingdom 524 5,211 110 18 43 10 313 6,229 Other European Union 619 7,514 90 130 81 78 1 8,513 United States 431 2,592 363 2,634 5 809 923 1,299 9,056 Africa 701 1,027 83 91 188 85 44 2,219 Rest of the World 612 2,465 154 191 1,278 148 44 21 4,913 Loans and advances to banks 2,887 18,809 800 3,064 1,595 1,130 1,012 1,633 30,930 Over three Over six Over one Over three Over five months months but year years years Not more but not not more but not but not but not than three more than than one more than more than more than Over On demand months six months year three years five years ten years ten years Total At 31st December 2005 m m m m m m m m m United Kingdom 369 3,647 31 126 162 19 2 268 4,624 Other European Union 585 4,642 122 23 38 12 1 5,423 United States 514 3,098 1,736 2,909 1,466 634 1,025 1,885 13,267 Africa 722 80 3 3 48 11 13 880 Rest of the World 1,739 4,454 114 108 138 103 19 240 6,915 Loans and advances to banks 3,929 15,921 2,006 3,169 1,852 779 1,047 2,406 31,109 a Table 4: Interest rate sensitivity of loans and advances to banks 2006 2005 Fixed Variable Fixed Variable rate rate Total rate rate Total At 31st December m m m m m m United Kingdom 4,710 1,519 6,229 1,384 3,240 4,624 Other European Union 2,907 5,606 8,513 690 4,733 5,423 United States 1,780 7,276 9,056 1,683 11,584 13,267 Africa 839 1,380 2,219 69 811 880 Rest of the World 1,940 2,973 4,913 3,709 3,206 6,915 Loans and advances to banks 12,176 18,754 30,930 7,535 23,574 31,109 a Table 5: Interest rate sensitivity of loans and advances to customers 2006 2005 Fixed Variable Fixed Variable rate rate Total rate rate Total At 31st December m m m m m m United Kingdom 43,700 126,818 170,518 49,988 113,771 163,759 Other European Union 9,258 34,172 43,430 7,317 31,606 38,923 United States 4,818 20,859 25,677 2,260 20,665 22,925 Africa 3,952 27,739 31,691 4,314 28,907 33,221 Rest of the World 4,272 10,043 14,315 5,604 7,910 13,514 Loans and advances to customers 66,000 219,631 285,631 69,483 202,859 272,342 Note a Where a loan is earning a fixed rate of interest on the reporting date, it is included as a fixed rate loan, regardless of the term for which the rate is fixed.
The industry classifications in Tables 6-10 have been prepared at the level of the borrowing entity.
This means that a loan to the subsidiary of a major corporation is classified by the industry in which the subsidiary operates, even though the parents predominant business may be in a different industry.
Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005. b Excludes commercial property mortgages.
c Overseas customers are now classified as part of other industry segments.
Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
The 2004 analysis excludes reverse repurchase agreements.
Table 11: Loans and advances to customers in the Rest of the World IFRS UK GAAP a 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 At 31st December m m m m m Loans and advances 14,207 13,407 10,520 2,751 3,988 Finance lease receivables 108 107 74 Loans and advances to customers in the Rest of the World 14,315 13,514 10,594 2,751 3,988 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Table 13: Loans and advances to borrowers in currencies other than the local currency of the borrower for countries where this exceeds 1% of total Group assets Commercial Banks industrial and other Governments and other As % of financial and official private assets Total institutions institutions sectors m m m m At 31st December 2006 IFRS United States 1.7 16,579 7,307 89 9,183 At 31st December 2005 IFRS United States 2.6 24,274 15,693 8,581 b At 31st December 2004 IFRS United States 4.0 21,556 10,102 2 11,452 Germany 1.3 7,128 6,614 514 France 1.0 5,562 5,019 27 516 b At 31st December 2006, 2005 and 2004, on an IFRS basis, there were no countries where Barclays had cross-currency loans to borrowers between 0.75% and 1% of total Group assets.
Notes a In the UK, finance lease receivables are included in Other lending, although some leases are to corporate customers.
b 2004 does not reflect the applications of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Further explanation is provided on page 148.
Barclays PLC 100 Annual Report 2006 Operating review 1 Table 14: Off-balance sheet and other credit exposures as at 31st December a 2006 2005 2004 m m m Off-balance sheet exposures Contingent liabilities 39,419 47,143 38,559 Commitments 205,504 203,785 134,051 On-balance sheet exposures Balances arising from off-balance sheet financial instruments OTC derivatives n a n a 18,174 London Metal Exchange warrants and other trading positions n a n a 952 Debt securities held for trading n a n a 87,594 non-trading n a n a 42,717 Trading portfolio assets 177,867 155,723 n a Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 31,799 12,904 n a Derivative financial instruments 138,353 136,823 n a Available for sale financial instruments 51,703 53,497 n a Table 15: Notional principal amounts of credit derivatives as at 31st December a 2006 2005 2004 m m m b Credit derivatives held or issued for trading purposes 1,224,548 609,381 186,275 Credit derivatives held for risk management purposes 5,133 Total 1,224,548 609,381 191,408 Table 16: Non-performing loans summary IFRS UK GAAP a 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m Impaired loans 4,444 4,550 n a n a n a Non-accruing loans n a n a 2,115 2,261 2,542 Accruing loans where interest is being suspended with or without provisions n a n a 492 629 611 Other accruing loans against which provisions have been made n a n a 943 821 819 Subtotal 4,444 4,550 3,550 3,711 3,972 Accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or interest 598 609 550 590 690 Restructured loans 46 51 15 4 6 Non-performing loans 5,088 5,210 4,115 4,305 4,668 Notes a 2004 does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Further explanation is provided on page 148. b Includes credit derivatives held as economic hedges which are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 101 Risk management Statistical information Table 17: Non-performing loans IFRS UK GAAP a 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m Impaired loans: United Kingdom 3,340 2,965 n a n a n a Other European Union 410 345 n a n a n a United States 129 230 n a n a n a Africa 535 831 n a n a n a Rest of the World 30 179 n a n a n a Total 4,444 4,550 n a n a n a Non-accrual loans: United Kingdom n a n a 1,509 1,572 1,557 Other European Union n a n a 243 143 108 United States n a n a 258 383 744 Africa n a n a 74 86 72 Rest of the World n a n a 31 77 61 Total n a n a 2,115 2,261 2,542 Accruing loans where interest is being suspended with or without provisions: United Kingdom n a n a 323 559 480 Other European Union n a n a 31 29 35 United States n a n a Africa n a n a 21 37 44 Rest of the World n a n a 117 4 52 Total n a n a 492 629 611 Other accruing loans against which provisions have been made: United Kingdom n a n a 865 760 751 Other European Union n a n a 27 35 27 United States n a n a 26 Africa n a n a 21 22 8 Rest of the World n a n a 4 4 33 Total n a n a 943 821 819 Accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or interest: United Kingdom 516 539 513 566 687 Other European Union 58 53 34 24 3 United States 3 1 Africa 21 17 1 Rest of the World 1 Total 598 609 550 590 690 Restructured loans: United Kingdom 5244 Other European Union 10 7 United States 22 16 13 Africa 14 23 Rest of the World 2 Total 46 51 15 4 6 Total non-performing loans: United Kingdom 3,856 3,509 3,212 3,461 3,479 Other European Union 478 405 335 231 173 United States 154 246 298 383 744 Africa 570 871 117 145 124 Rest of the World 30 179 153 85 148 Non-performing loans 5,088 5,210 4,115 4,305 4,668 Also see chart on page 82.
Table 19: Interest foregone on non-performing loans 2006 2005 2004 m m m Interest income that would have been recognised under the original contractual terms United Kingdom 357 304 266 Rest of the World 70 52 52 Total 427 356 318 Interest income of approximately 72m 2005: 29m, 2004: 59m from such loans was included in profit, of which 49m 2005: 20m, 2004: 54m related to domestic lending and the remainder related to foreign lending.
In addition, a further 98m 2005: 76m, 2004: n a was recognised arising from impaired loans.
Following impairment, interest income is recognised using the original effective rate of interest which was used to discount the expected future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
88m 2005: 70m, 2004: n a of this related to domestic impaired loans and the remainder related to foreign impaired loans.
Table 20: Analysis of impairment provision charges IFRS UK GAAP a 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m Impairment charge net specific provisions charge United Kingdom 1,880 1,382 1,021 1,132 1,041 Other European Union 92 75 102 37 14 United States 12 76 57 84 385 Africa 143 37 27 21 24 Rest of the World 53 4 103 46 22 Impairment on loans and advances 2,074 1,574 n a n a n a Impairment on available for sale assets 86 4 n a n a n a Impairment charge 2,160 1,578 n a n a n a Total net specific provisions charge n a n a 1,310 1,320 1,486 General provisions release charge n a n a 206 27 2 Other credit provisions 6 7 11 Impairment provision charges 2,154 1,571 1,093 1,347 1,484 Also see chart on page 84.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 103 Risk management Statistical information Table 21: Impairment provisions charges ratios Loan loss ratios IFRS UK GAAP a 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 % %% %% Impairment provisions charges as a percentage of average loans and advances for the year: Specific provisions charge n a n a 0.40 0.46 0.58 General provisions charge n a n a 0.07 0.01 Impairment charge 0.66 0.58 n a n a n a Total 0.66 0.58 0.33 0.47 0.58 Amounts written off net of recoveries 0.61 0.50 0.40 0.48 0.43 Table 22: Analysis of allowance for impairment provision for bad and doubtful debts IFRS UK GAAP a 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m Impairment allowance Specific provisions United Kingdom 2,477 2,266 1,683 1,856 1,790 Other European Union 311 284 149 97 84 United States 100 130 155 121 257 Africa 417 647 70 79 60 Rest of the World 30 123 90 80 70 Specific provision balances n a n a 2,147 2,233 2,261 General provision balances n a n a 564 795 737 Allowance for impairment provision balances 3,335 3,450 2,711 3,028 2,998 Average loans and advances for the year 313,614 271,421 328,134 285,963 256,789 Table 23: Allowance for impairment provision balance ratios IFRS UK GAAP a 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 % % % % % Allowance for impairment provision balance at end of year as a percentage of loans and advances at end of year: Specific provision balances n a n a 0.62 0.77 0.86 General provision balances n a n a 0.16 0.27 0.28 Impairment balance 1.05 1.14 n a n a n a Total 1.05 1.14 0.78 1.04 1.14 Table 24: Movements in allowance for impairment provisions charge for bad and doubtful debts IFRS UK GAAP a 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m Allowance for impairment provision balance at beginning of year 3,450 2,637 2,946 2,998 2,716 Acquisitions and disposals 23 555 21 62 11 Unwind of discount 98 76 n a n a n a Exchange and other adjustments 153 125 33 18 77 Amounts written off 2,174 1,587 1,582 1,474 1,220 Recoveries 259 222 255 113 106 b Impairment provision charged against profit 2,074 1,574 1,104 1,347 1,484 Allowance for impairment provision balance at end of year 3,335 3,450 2,711 3,028 2,998 Also see chart on page 85.
Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005. b Does not reflect the impairment of available for sale assets or other credit risk provisions in 2005 and 2006.
Barclays PLC 104 Annual Report 2006 Operating review 1 Table 25: Amounts written off IFRS UK GAAP a 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m United Kingdom 1,746 1,302 1,280 1,175 950 Other European Union 74 56 63 54 31 United States 46 143 50 215 215 Africa 264 81 15 13 14 Rest of the World 44 5 174 17 10 Amounts written off 2,174 1,587 1,582 1,474 1,220 Table 26: Recoveries IFRS UK GAAP a 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m United Kingdom 178 160 217 95 88 Other European Union 18 13 977 United States 22 15 14 10 9 Africa 33 16 411 Rest of the World 8 18 11 1 Recoveries 259 222 255 113 106 Table 27: Impairment allowances provision charged against profit IFRS UK GAAP a 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m New and increased impairment allowance specific provision charge: United Kingdom 2,253 1,763 1,358 1,373 1,210 Other European Union 182 113 131 57 33 United States 60 105 85 118 404 Africa 209 109 47 33 36 Rest of the World 18 39 134 47 36 2,722 2,129 1,755 1,628 1,719 Reversals of impairment allowance specific provision charge: United Kingdom 195 221 120 146 81 Other European Union 72 25 20 13 12 United States 26 14 14 24 10 Africa 33 56 16 10 11 Rest of the World 63 17 20 2 13 389 333 190 195 127 Recoveries 259 222 255 113 106 b Net impairment allowance specific provision charge 2,074 1,574 1,310 1,320 1,486 General provision release charge n a n a 206 27 2 Net charge to profit 2,074 1,574 1,104 1,347 1,484 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005. b Does not reflect the impairment of available for sale assets or other credit risk provisions in 2005 and 2006.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 105 Risk management Statistical information Table 28: Total impairment specific provision charges for bad and doubtful debts by industry IFRS UK GAAP a 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m United Kingdom: Financial services 64 22 1 13 1 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 5 9 3 1 Manufacturing 1 120 28 79 80 Construction 17 14 10 23 41 Property 15 18 42 3 8 Energy and water 7 1 3 13 22 Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 88 39 66 38 37 Transport 19 27 19 100 7 Postal and communication 15 3 1 1 16 Business and other services 133 45 64 76 62 Home loans 71 1 17 9 4 Other personal 1,459 1,136 894 757 748 b Overseas customers 66 13 Finance lease receivables 3293 1,880 1,382 1,021 1,132 1,041 Overseas 194 192 289 188 445 c Impairment specific provision charges 2,074 1,574 1,310 1,320 1,486 The category other personal includes credit cards, personal loans and personal overdrafts.
The industry classifications in Tables 28, 29 and 30 have been prepared at the level of the borrowing entity.
Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005. b Overseas customers are now classified as part of other industry segments.
c Does not reflect the impairment of available for sale assets or other credit risk provisions in 2005 and 2006.
Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005. c Does not reflect the impairment of available for sale assets or other credit risk provisions in 2005 and 2006.
