Risk factors Risk factors Capital risk The following discussion sets forth certain risk factors that the Group Capital risk is the risk that the Group has insufficient capital resources to: believes could cause its actual future results to differ materially from Meet minimum regulatory capital requirements in the UK and in expected results.
However, other factors could also adversely affect the other markets such as the US and South Africa where regulated Group results and so the factors discussed in this report should not be activities are undertaken.
The Groups authority to operate as a considered to be a complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties.
bank is dependent upon the maintenance of adequate capital Business conditions and general economy resources.
The profitability of Barclays businesses could be adversely affected by Support its strong credit rating.
In addition to capital resources, the a worsening of general economic conditions in the United Kingdom, Groups rating is supported by a diverse portfolio of activities, an globally or in certain individual markets such as the US or South Africa.
increasingly international presence, consistent profit performance, Factors such as interest rates, inflation, investor sentiment, the prudent risk management and a focus on value creation.
A weaker availability and cost of credit, the liquidity of the global financial markets credit rating would increase the Groups cost of funds: and and the level and volatility of equity prices could significantly affect the Support its growth and strategic options.
activity level of customers, for example: The Groups capital management activities seek to maximise An economic downturn or significantly higher interest rates could shareholder value by optimising the level and mix of its capital adversely affect the credit quality of Barclays on-balance sheet and resources.
Capital risk is mitigated by: off-balance sheet assets by increasing the risk that a greater ensuring access to a broad range of investor markets: number of Barclays customers would be unable to meet their management of the Groups demand for capital: and obligations.
management of the exposure to foreign currency exchange rate A market downturn or worsening of the economy could cause the movements.
Group to incur mark to market losses in its trading portfolios.
A market downturn could reduce the fees Barclays earns for Liquidity risk managing assets.
For example, a higher level of domestic or This is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations when foreign interest rates or a downturn in trading markets could affect they fall due and to replace funds when they are withdrawn, with the flows of assets under management: and consequent failure to repay depositors and fulfil commitments to lend.
A market downturn would be likely to lead to a decline in the The risk that it will be unable to do so is inherent in all banking volume of transactions that Barclays executes for its customers operations and can be impacted by a range of institution specific and and, therefore, lead to a decline in the income it receives from fees market-wide events including, but not limited to, credit events, merger and commissions and interest.
and acquisition activity, systemic shocks and natural disasters.
Credit risk Operational risks Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss, should any of the Groups The Groups businesses are dependent on the ability to process a large customers, clients or market counterparties fail to fulfil their contractual number of transactions efficiently and accurately.
Operational risks and obligations to the Group.
Credit risk may also arise where the losses can result from fraud, employee errors, failure to properly downgrading of an entitys credit rating causes the fair value of the document transactions or to obtain proper internal authorisation, Groups investment in that entitys financial instruments to fall.
The failure to comply with regulatory requirements and conduct of business credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from commercial and rules, equipment failures, natural disasters or the failure of external consumer loans and advances, including credit card lending.
systems see page 90 for a detailed list.
Although the Group has Furthermore, credit risk is manifested as country risk where difficulties implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions, and substantial may arise: in the country in which the exposure is domiciled thus resources are devoted to developing efficient procedures and to staff impeding or reducing the value of the asset: or where the counterparty training, it is only possible to be reasonably, but not absolutely, certain may be the country itself.
that such procedures will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks faced by the Group.
Settlement risk is another form of credit risk and is the possibility that the Group may pay a counterparty for example, a bank in a foreign Insurance risk exchange transaction but fail to receive the corresponding settlement Insurance risk is the risk that the Group will have to make higher than in return.
anticipated payments to settle claims arising from its long-term and short-term insurance businesses.
Market risk The most significant market risks the Group faces are interest rate, Legal risk credit spread, foreign exchange, commodity price and equity price risks.
The Group is subject to a comprehensive range of legal obligations in all Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect the countries in which it operates.
As a result, the Group is exposed to many interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing forms of legal risk, which may arise in a number of ways.
Changes in currency rates, particularly in the Sterling-US Dollar, the Groups business may not be conducted in accordance with Sterling-Euro and Sterling-Rand exchange rates, affect the value of applicable laws around the world: assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and affect contractual obligations may either not be enforceable as intended earnings reported by the Groups non-UK subsidiaries and may affect or may be enforced against the Group in an adverse way: revenues from foreign exchange dealing.
The performance of financial the intellectual property of the Group such as its trade names markets may cause changes in the value of the Groups investment and may not be adequately protected: and trading portfolios and in the amount of revenues generated from assets the Group may be liable for damages to third parties harmed by the under management.
The Group has implemented risk management conduct of its business.
methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which it is exposed.
However, it is difficult to predict with accuracy changes in The Group faces risk where legal proceedings are brought against it.
economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such Regardless of whether such claims have merit, the outcome of legal changes could have on the Groups financial performance, business proceedings is inherently uncertain and could result in financial loss.
operations and the value of assets held in the Groups pension and longterm assurance funds.
Barclays PLC 64 Annual Report 2006 Operating review 1 Defending legal proceedings can be expensive and time-consuming card interchange rates.
The decision by the OFT in the MasterCard and there is no guarantee that all costs incurred will be recovered even if interchange case was set aside by the Competition Appeals Tribunal in the Group is successful.
Although the Group has processes and controls June 2006.
The OFTs investigation in the Visa interchange case is at an to manage legal risks, failure to manage these risks could impact the earlier stage and a second MasterCard interchange case is ongoing.
Group adversely, both financially and by reputation.
The outcome is not known but these investigations may have an impact on the consumer credit industry in general and therefore on Tax risk the Groups business in this sector.
On 9th February 2007 the OFT The Group is subject to the tax laws in all countries in which it operates.
announced that it was expanding its investigation into interchange A number of double taxation agreements entered between countries rates to include debit cards.
also impact on the taxation of the Group.
The Group is also subject to European Community tax law.
The OFT announced the findings of its investigation into the level of late and over-limit fees on credit cards on 5th April 2006, requiring a Tax risk is the risk associated with changes in tax law or in the response from credit card companies by 31st May 2006.
Barclaycard interpretation of tax law.
It also includes the risk of changes in tax rates responded by confirming that it would reduce its late and over-limit fees and the risk of failure to comply with procedures required by tax on credit cards from 1st August 2006. authorities.
Failure to manage tax risks could lead to an additional tax charge.
It could also lead to a financial penalty for failure to comply with On 7th September 2006, the OFT announced that it had decided to required tax procedures or other aspects of tax law.
If, as a result of a undertake a fact find on the application of its statement on credit card particular tax risk materialising, the tax costs associated with particular fees to current account unauthorised overdraft fees.
The OFT expects transactions are greater than anticipated, it could affect the profitability this work to take up to six months, at which stage the OFT will consider of those transactions.
whether a further detailed investigation into unauthorised overdraft fees is needed.
Effect of governmental policy and regulation The Groups businesses and earnings can be affected by the fiscal or On 26th January 2007, the FSA issued a Statement of Good Practice other policies and other actions of various governmental and regulatory relating to Mortgage Exit Administration Fees.
Barclays will charge the authorities in the UK, the European Union EU, the US, South Africa fee applicable at the time the customer took out the mortgage, which and elsewhere.
is one of the options recommended by the FSA.
There is continuing political and regulatory scrutiny of the operation of Other areas where changes could have an impact include: the retail banking and consumer credit industries in the UK and the monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and elsewhere.
The nature and impact of future changes in policies and regulatory authorities: regulatory action are not predictable and beyond the Groups control general changes in government or regulatory policy that may but could have an impact on the Groups businesses and earnings.
significantly influence investor decisions in particular markets in In the EU as a whole, these regulatory actions included an inquiry into which the Group operates: retail banking in all of the then 25 Member States by the European general changes in the regulatory requirements, for example, Commissions Directorate General for Competition.
The inquiry prudential rules relating to the capital adequacy framework looked at retail banking in Europe generally and the Group has fully page 59 : co-operated with the inquiry.
On 31st January 2007 the European changes in competition and pricing environments: Commission announced that the inquiry had identified barriers to further developments in the financial reporting environment: competition in certain areas of retail banking, payment cards and expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation of assets and changes payment systems in the EU.
The Commission indicated it will use in legislation relating to foreign ownership: and its powers to address these barriers, and will encourage national other unfavourable political, military or diplomatic developments competition authorities to enforce European and national competition producing social instability or legal uncertainty which in turn may laws where appropriate.
Any action taken by the Commission and affect demand for the Groups products and services.
national competition authorities could have an impact on the payment Impact of strategic decisions taken by the Group cards and payment systems businesses of the Group and on its retail The Group devotes substantial management and planning resources to banking activities in the EU countries in which it operates.
the development of strategic plans for organic growth and identification In the UK, in September 2005 the Office of Fair Trading OFT received of possible acquisitions, supported by substantial expenditure to a super-complaint from the Citizens Advice Bureau relating to payment generate growth in customer business.
If these strategic plans do not protection insurance PPI.
As a result, the OFT commenced a market deliver as anticipated, the Groups earnings could grow more slowly study on PPI in April 2006.
In October 2006, the OFT announced the or decline.
outcome of the market study and, following a period of consultation, Competition the OFT referred the PPI market to the UK Competition Commission for The global financial services markets in which the Group operates are an in-depth inquiry on 7th February 2007.
This inquiry could last for up highly competitive.
Innovative competition for corporate, institutional to two years.
Also in October 2006, the Financial Services Authority and retail clients and customers comes both from incumbent players FSA published the outcome of its broad industry thematic review of and a steady stream of new market entrants.
The landscape is expected PPI sales practices in which it concluded that some firms fail to treat to remain highly competitive in all areas, which could adversely affect customers fairly.
The Group has cooperated fully with these the Groups profitability if the Group fails to retain and attract clients investigations and will continue to do so.
In April 2006, the OFT commenced a review of the undertakings given Impact of external factors on the Group and peer group following the conclusion of the Competition Commission Inquiry in The Groups primary performance goal is to achieve top quartile Total 2002 into the supply of banking services to Small and Medium Shareholder Return performance for 2004 to 2007 inclusive against Enterprises SMEs.
The Group is co-operating fully with that review.
a group of peer financial institutions.
This goal assumes that external The OFT has carried out investigations into Visa and MasterCard credit factors will impact all peer group entities similarly.
The Groups ability Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 65 Risk factors to achieve the goal will be significantly impacted if the Group is whether the protected claim is in relation to a deposit, a contract of disproportionately impacted by negative external factors.
Even if the insurance or protected investment business and certain types of Group performs well, if others perform better or the market believes claims are subject to maximum levels of compensation.
Most others have performed better, we may not achieve our goal as deposits made with branches of Barclays Bank PLC within the defined on page 8.
European Economic Area EEA which are denominated in Sterling or other EEA currencies including the euro are covered by the Additionally some peers are listed on exchanges other than the Scheme.
Most claims made in respect of designated investment London Stock Exchange and so may react to differing external business will also be protected claims if the business was carried factors.
Barclays devotes considerable resources and expertise to on from the UK or from a branch of the bank or investment firm in managing the risks to which it is exposed.
Our risk management is another EEA member state.
described in the following pages pages 67 to 107.
Please also refer to the cautionary statement concerning forward-looking Outside the UK, the Group has operations and main regulators statements on the inside of the front cover in conjunction with this located in continental Europe, in particular France, Germany, Spain, section.
Switzerland, Portugal and Italy local central banks and other regulatory authorities : Asia Pacific various regulatory authorities Regulatory compliance risk including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the Financial Services Regulatory compliance risk arises from a failure or inability to Agency of Japan, the Australian Securities and Investments comply fully with the laws, regulations or codes applicable Commission and the Monetary Authority of Singapore : Africa specifically to the financial services industry.
Non compliance could various regulatory authorities including the South African Reserve lead to fines, public reprimands, damage to reputation, enforced Bank and the Financial Services Board and the United States of suspension of operations or, in extreme cases, withdrawal of America the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System authorisations to operate.
FRB, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCC and the Supervision and regulation Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Groups operations, including its overseas offices, subsidiaries In Europe, the UK regulatory agenda is considerably shaped and and associates, are subject to rules and regulations, including reserve influenced by the directives emanating from the EU.
A number of EU and reporting requirements and conduct of business requirements, directives are currently being implemented, for example the Capital imposed by the relevant central banks and regulatory authorities.
Requirements Directive, the Third Money Laundering Directive and In the UK, the Financial Services Authority FSA is the independent the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID.
These form body responsible for the regulation of deposit taking, life insurance, part of the European Single Market programme, an important home mortgages, general insurance and investment business.
The feature of which is the framework for the regulation of authorised FSA was established by the Government and it exercises statutory firms.
This framework is designed to enable a credit institution or powers under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. investment firm authorised in one EU member state to conduct banking or investment business through the establishment of Barclays Bank PLC is authorised by the FSA to carry on a range of branches or by the provision of services on a cross-border basis in regulated activities within the UK and is subject to consolidated other member states without the need for local authorisation.
In its role as supervisor, the FSA seeks to ensure the Barclays operations in Europe are authorised and regulated by a safety and soundness of financial institutions with the aim of combination of both home the FSA and host regulators.
strengthening, but not guaranteeing, the protection of customers.
The FSAs continuing supervision of financial institutions authorised Barclays operations in South Africa, including Absa Group Limited, by it is conducted through a variety of regulatory tools, including the are supervised and regulated by the South African Reserve Bank collection of information from statistical and prudential returns, SARB and the Financial Services Board FSB.
SARB oversees the reports obtained from skilled persons, visits to firms and regular banking industry and follows a risk-based approach to supervision meetings with management to discuss issues such as performance, whilst the FSB oversees the non-banking financial services industry risk management and strategy.
and focuses on enhancing consumer protection and regulating market conduct.
The FSA adopts a risk-based approach to supervision.
The starting point for supervision of all financial institutions is a systematic In the United States, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, and certain analysis of the risk profile for each authorised firm.
The FSA has US subsidiaries and branches of the Bank are subject to a adopted a homogeneous risk, processes and resourcing model in its comprehensive regulatory structure, involving numerous statutes, approach to its supervisory responsibilities known as the ARROW rules and regulations, including the International Banking Act of model and the results of the risk assessment are used by the FSA to 1978, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, the develop a risk mitigation programme for a firm.
The FSA also Foreign Bank Supervision Enhancement Act of 1991 and the USA promulgates requirements that banks and other financial PATRIOT Act of 2001.
Such laws and regulations impose limitations institutions are required to meet on matters such as capital on the types of businesses, and the ways in which they may be adequacy see capital ratios on page 59, limits on large exposures conducted, in the United States and on the location and expansion to individual entities and groups of closely connected entities, and of banking business there.
The Banks branch operations are subject liquidity.
Certain of these requirements derive from EU directives as to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation by the FRB, described below.
the New York State Banking Department and the OCC in the case of Barclays Global Investors, NA : and the Delaware State Banking Banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions in the Commissioner and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in UK are subject to a single financial services compensation scheme the case of Barclays Bank Delaware.
The investment banking and the Financial Services Compensation Scheme where an authorised asset management operations are subject to ongoing supervision firm is unable or is likely to be unable to meet claims made against and regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC as it because of its financial circumstances.
Different levels of well as a comprehensive scheme of regulation under the US federal compensation are available to eligible claimants depending upon securities laws, as enforced by, for example, the NASD and the OCC.
