We are in the business of evaluating, accepting and managing a wide range of large, complex and often unpredictable risks that occur for our clients in their day-to-day business around the world B Body copy ody copy Risk management We differentiate ourselves by providing our Enterprise risk management clients with intelligent insurance products Enterprise risk management is integral to all and services that add value to the way they our business planning and risk-taking activity.
Our 20 year trading By allocating capital to each underwriting record of consistent profitability demonstrates segment and regularly reviewing returns, we the effectiveness of our rigorous risk manage our portfolio in a way that supports management practices that are intrinsic to the our core markets, and targets growth on the way we work with our clients and underpin best opportunities as they arise.
every level of decision-making in the group.
To optimise use of the groups capacity for To take full advantage of the opportunities insurance risk, allocation between classes that arise and ensure that we protect our of business is reviewed regularly through capital we must always accurately assess the stress and scenario analysis.
Stochastic expected claims and expenses which may modelling techniques are also used to arise from accepting every risk presented to rigorously assess our capital requirements us.
More information relating to the risks that through the ICA process.
are inherent to each business division is Risk appetite detailed in note 2.
From a group perspective, Insurance risk is our largest risk category, to ensure that only the best risk management resulting from the blend of complementary approaches are applied to all of our activities, catastrophe and non-catastrophe business we base every action upon three guiding that we write.
To manage these exposures we principles: model and stress test our risks to understand Controlled risk taking: the expected financial impact to the group Clear accountability: and should extreme events result in claims from Open risk culture.
Following the upward calibration of industry By focusing upon these principles we can risk models in 2006 to produce a more manage our diverse risk classes to achieve conservative result, the board has set this the ideal balance between risk management appetite as a reflection of the opportunities control and encouraging our underwriting which exist for catastrophe exposed business.
teams to be professional, innovative, effective For classes of business where accumulations and dynamic.
of losses can result from a single event, such as property, marine energy, terrorism and war, we set insurance risk appetite limits at group level based on our exposure to relevant extreme catastrophe scenarios.
For the syndicates this equates to 20% of stamp capacity for a 1 in 250 year modelled US event.
Nicholas Furlonge Director, risk management 28 2 28 28 8 Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 We also have market leading portfolios in Risk management team Key risks areas such as professional indemnity and The purpose of our risk management team is The group has identified six primary categories directors and officers liability insurance.
to facilitate and strengthen the risk of risk that arise from its activities: For these classes the primary risk is charging management framework.
Their main goal is to premium rates that are too low as a result of help the business to achieve a consistent Insurance Underwriting external factors such as new laws, social approach to the identification, measurement Reinsurance trends or regulations which subsequently lead and mitigation of risk across the group.
Active Claims management to larger than expected claims.
These other participation of this team in all board Reserving & ultimate reserves types of risk benefit our business by providing meetings and senior management Credit Reinsurers healthy diversification from the typical natural committees ensures that risks are monitored Brokers & intermediaries catastrophe exposures of London market and managed as they arise.
Investments insurers such as Florida wind or California This team uses a leading edge system called quake.
Liquidity Insurance & non-insurance the BeazleyRiskMatrix to support its work.
cash calls We recognise that non-catastrophe exposed This online risk management tool allows the Market Foreign exchange classes may cover events which can also emerging risk profile of the group to be Interest rate create losses.
Accordingly, we have set a captured and analysed in real time using Price comprehensive risk appetite framework for information input directly by risk and control these portfolios which is based on their owners across our worldwide locations.
Operational People potential impact on our profits.
Process Internal audit and compliance Regulation Risk assurance framework Our internal audit and compliance teams Service provider Our organisation is structured to ensure clear reinforce our comprehensive risk Business continuity ownership and accountability for all risk management strategies.
They work closely Information security management activities.
Therefore our risk with the risk management team to coFinancial reporting assurance framework encourages all our ordinate activity, avoid duplication and deliver Data integrity underwriting teams to focus upon achieving a targeted risk-based approach.
Legal the groups strategic objectives.
The compliance team works closely in Group Strategic The board of directors has ultimate partnership with the business to ensure that Reputation responsibility for defining the groups risk all relevant regulations are understood and Management stretch tolerance and risk management approach.
Internal audit complement this work by Nominated individuals and committees are providing independent assurance about the Note 2 on pages 59 to 67 provides further made accountable for day-to-day operating efficiency and effectiveness of our detail about the groups definition, appetite management of all risks and controls which controls.
and controls for each of these risk categories.
Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 B Beazley Annual Report 2006 eazley Annual Report 2006 29 29 29 29 R I S K
