Directors report B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 18 18 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 Directors report Business review The Board is committed to the ongoing sustainability of the business and has established comprehensive control and governance structures to ensure the risks faced by the Group are managed carefully.
Risk management and control second section explains the way in which we Independent monitoring of the risk Introduction categorise risks, the types of risks that we management framework is provided by risk Risk is inherent in the Groups business and face and their mitigation.
management specialists based in the Risk, activities.
Our ability to identify, assess, monitor Audit and Compliance functions.
and manage each type of risk to which the Risk governance Group is exposed is an important factor in our In addition to individual responsibilities for risk financial soundness, performance, reputation The responsibility for the overall framework management there is a structure of and future success.
The principal risks which of risk governance and management lies committees that, under authority delegated we face are credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk with the Board of Directors.
The Board is from the Board, have formal responsibility for and operational risk.
Our approach to risk responsible for determining risk strategy, defined aspects of risk management.
management is built on formal governance setting the Groups risk appetite and ensuring processes, relies on individual responsibility that risk is monitored and controlled effectively.
The roles and responsibilities of the risk and collective oversight and is informed by It is also responsible for establishing a clearly management committees are set out in the comprehensive reporting.
defined risk management structure with following paragraphs.
The relationships distinct roles and responsibilities.
Within that between these committees and the risk The sections below describe our approach to structure, line managers are responsible for the management functions are shown in the risk management.
The first section covers the identification, measurement and management diagram below: Groups risk governance structure and the of the risks within their areas of responsibility.
The Board EXCO ALCO Group Risk Audit Committee Committee Credit Risk Committee Group Finance Director Director Group Risk, Audit & Internal Audit Compliance Group Operational Risk Financial Risk Compliance Directors report B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 19 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 19 Audit Committee areas risk management and profiles operation of the controls processes and The Audit Committee is a non-executive to ensure they are maintained in a managements progress in addressing committee that supports the Board in carrying robust manner.
issues identified: out its responsibilities for financial reporting report to the Audit Committee upon the including accounting policies and in respect Compliance results of individual audits in the period.
of internal control and risk assessment.
The The role of Compliance is to: Internal Audit reports the issues emerging Audit Committee monitors the ongoing provide a focal point to co-ordinate from, and findings of, each audit to process of the identification, evaluation and communications and consultations with relevant management and obtains their management of all significant risks regulatory authorities: commitment to undertake appropriate throughout the Group.
achieve high standards of compliance remedial action: and advice and risk-based compliance: review continually the appropriateness of the Group Risk Committee GRC according to agreed plans and standards: Groups risk profile and place appropriate The Group Risk Committee is an executive provide an effective compliance advisory reliance on the risk management process risk governance committee.
It supports the and consultative service to the Group: to minimise audit work.
Group Chief Executive in ensuring that the carry out reviews of relevant business units Groups overall risk management framework employing quantified risk based Risk categorisation is effective and that key risks are managed monitoring techniques to monitor The Group categorises risks under the cost effectively and to an acceptable level.
performance against the relevant rules, following headings: guidance, codes of conduct and the Asset & Liability Management Groups internal policies and procedures, Credit risk Committee ALCO providing timely and objective reports of Credit risk is defined as the potential financial ALCO is an executive committee, which findings, agreeing appropriate corrective loss if a customer or counterparty fails to meet monitors and manages the structure of the actions and monitoring implementation: their obligations to us as they become due.
Group balance sheet and agrees strategy and oversee the compliance performance of the Credit risk also arises through the downgrading policy adjustment where necessary.
In Group, keeping line management, GRC, the of counterparties whose credit instruments the addition ALCO optimises the Groups net Audit Committee and the Board informed Group may be holding, causing the value of interest income within the sensitivity limits of the state of compliance standards those assets to fall.
measured against objective and published performance standards indicators.
Draw The taking of credit risk in order to earn a Credit Risk Committee CRC attention to areas of under-performance return is a central feature of the Groups The CRC supports the GRC by advising on the and improving or worsening trends and business.
Risks arising from changes in credit Groups credit risk framework and reviewing, provide rapid alert to particular risks or quality and the recoverability of loans and monitoring and recommending on all credit failings: and amounts due from counterparties are matters relating to credit exposures and credit escalate any unremedied compliance failings inherent across most of the Groups activities.
through line management and if necessary Adverse changes in the credit quality of prompt effective enforcement measures.
borrowers or a general deterioration in UK All of the above committees have appropriate economic conditions could affect the representation and support from the Groups Internal audit recoverability and value of the Groups assets Risk, Audit and Compliance functions.
We have contracted with Ernst & Young for and therefore its financial performance.
As them to provide internal audit services.
The credit risk is the main risk to the Group, a Group risk management of the internal audit function, credit risk framework has been established as The role of Group Risk is to: however, remains firmly with Bradford & part of the overall governance framework to develop a Group strategy, policy and Bingley.
The role of the function is to provide measure, mitigate and manage credit risk framework for risk management aligned independent and objective assurance that within the Groups risk appetite.
with business requirements: the process for identifying, evaluating and provide support to the business in the managing significant risks faced by the The Group is exposed to a lesser degree to implementation of the framework: Group is appropriate and effectively applied.
other forms of credit risk such as those arising bring together analyses of risk concentrations from trading and settlement activities where and sensitivities across the business: Specifically to: the risk is a consequence of undertaking the act as a point of reference for risk and produce a formal, annual opinion on the activity rather than a driver for it.
control matters, providing ad hoc advice adequacy and effectiveness of the control to management, sharing best practice processes to the Audit Committee for The Groups credit risk framework is based on and carrying out special reviews as submission to the Board.
This is to agreed the allocation of the Groups residential and directed by GRC, ALCO and the Audit materiality thresholds and supports commercial lending into a series of four risk Committee: and Turnbull requirements: categories.
These provide a sufficient level of provide an independent report on a quarterly basis to the Board detail to identify, monitor and manage the assessment challenge of the business through the Audit Committee on the Directors report B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 20 20 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 Directors report Business review Risk management and control continued overall credit risk profile on a monthly basis.
the Credit Risk Management and Credit Control ensuring that Treasury implements the These categories are defined in relation to areas with challenge and oversight provided by strategies so that the exposures are managed profitability, as follows: the Group Financial Risk function.
within the Groups approved policy limits.
Medium risk: in the event of a markedly adverse economy, high levels of bad debts Lending policies and limits are reviewed and The Group assesses its exposure to interest would result in profits being negligible or approved annually by the Board, with the rate movements using a number of losses being incurred: associated credit risk processes defined techniques.
However, there are two principal Medium low risk: a markedly adverse centrally.
The CRC ensures that any exposure methods: a a static framework that considers economy would cause substantial to credit risk, significant changes in policy, or the impact on the current balance sheet of an reductions in profitability, but profits would expansion into new areas of business remain immediate movement of interest rates, and still be positive: within overall risk exposure levels as agreed b a dynamic modelling framework that Low risk: only modest reductions in by the Board.
Authorised credit risk limits for considers the projected change to both the profitability would be recorded even in the wholesale money market counterparties balance sheet and product mortgage and event of a markedly adverse economy: reflect the size, depth and quality of a savings rates over the following year under Negligible risk: these are loans which have counterpartys capital base and, where various interest rate scenarios.
The results low risk of default and, more importantly, published, credit ratings assigned by the of these analyses are presented to senior such high levels of security that, even in a major credit rating agencies.
The policies and management in order to identify, measure markedly adverse environment, it would limits covering Treasury counterparty credit risk and manage the Groups exposure to not be expected that any bad debt loss exposure are reviewed and approved annually interest rate risk.
The Group has remained would be incurred.
within all its interest rate risk exposure limits during the year.
The assignment of loans to the different risk In addition to the credit risk governance categories is based on an assessment of the framework outlined above, the Group takes Limits are placed on the sensitivity of the relative risk of default and the strength of the security for funds advanced and, whilst Group balance sheet to movements in underlying security all residential and concentrated in the UK, manages the interest rates.
Exposures are reviewed as commercial lending is secured.
The resulting diversification of its portfolios through limits appropriate by senior management and the risk profile is then projected forward based on around individual counterparties, types of Board with a frequency between daily and planned advances, redemptions and counterparty, industry and geographic regions.
monthly related to the granularity of the seasoning and Board approved limits position.
For example, the overall Group structured in line with the Groups risk appetite.
Market risk balance sheet interest rate risk exposure Market risk is defined as the potential adverse position is monitored monthly whilst several Within the Treasury banking book, change in Group income or Group net worth specific portfolios within the balance sheet counterparties are required to have a arising from movements in interest rates, are reviewed more frequently on a daily or minimum long term credit rating of Moodys exchange rates or other market prices.
This reflects the dynamics and A2 or its equivalent or a minimum short term Effective identification and management of materiality of the various portfolios.
credit rating of Moodys P2 or equivalent.
This market risk is essential for maintaining stable reflects the Groups low tolerance to loss.
Interest rate risk exposure is predominantly managed through the use of interest rate The Group also maintains a structured finance The Group did not have trading portfolios during derivatives, principally interest rate swaps portfolio that comprises primarily investments the year and therefore the most significant form and interest rate futures contracts.
Interest rate in asset backed securities ABS.
The credit of market risk to which the Group is exposed swaps are over-the-counter arrangements risk is driven by the quality of the underlying is interest rate risk.
This typically arises from with highly rated banking counterparties, securitised assets which in turn drives the mismatches between the repricing dates of while futures contracts are transacted through demand for, and therefore marketability the interest-bearing assets and liabilities on regulated Futures Exchanges.
The Group also of, the issues.
To limit credit risk and the Groups balance sheet, and from the uses asset and liability positions to naturally concentrations, the maximum investment investment profile of the Groups capital and offset exposures wherever possible to in ABS is capped at 4bn.
Treasury is responsible for managing minimise the costs and risks of arranging this exposure within the risk exposure limits set transactions external to the Group.
The Group is firmly committed to the out in the Balance Sheet Management policy as management of credit risk in both its lending approved by ALCO and the Board.
This policy Foreign exchange risk and wholesale money market activities.
In its sets out the nature of the market risks that may As the Group does not actively seek foreign core lending activities, the Group employs be taken along with aggregate risk limits, and exchange exposures, with the net exposure sophisticated credit scoring, underwriting and stipulates the procedures, instruments and to foreign currencies relating primarily to net fraud detection techniques that support sound controls to be used in managing market risk.
interest income streams denominated in the credit decision making and work to minimise foreign currencies, the limit placed on this risk losses.
A proactive approach to the identification It is ALCOs responsibility to approve strategies is small in relation to the Groups other risk and control of loan impairment is maintained in for managing market risk exposures and exposures.
This exposure limit and the small Directors report B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 21 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 21 range of foreign currencies it is related to is set The day-to-day management of liquidity is As noted earlier the Group has also arranged out in the Balance Sheet Management policy the responsibility of Treasury, which provides a number of standby liquidity facilities that are that is approved by ALCO and the Board.
funding to, and takes surplus funds from, the available to assist in the maintenance of liquidity Group as required.
These are primarily used to support the The Group raises and invests funds in Groups non-sterling activities, and are available currencies other than sterling.
Accordingly, Liquidity policy is approved by the Board and in a range of currencies.
These facilities have not foreign exchange risk arises from activities agreed within a framework established by the been drawn upon during the year.
related to the Group managing borrowing Financial Services Authority FSA.
The scope costs and investment returns.
As with interest and nature of the Groups holdings of readily Operational risk rate risk, Treasury is responsible for managing realisable liquid assets are always in excess Operational risk is defined as the potential risk this exposure within the limits as set out in the of regulatory guidelines after allowing for the of financial loss or impairment to reputation Groups policies.
resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, from the actions of Foreign currency exposure is measured daily Liquidity risk is assessed by means of a people or from external events.
by Treasury taking into consideration all nonframework that determines the appropriate sterling assets and liabilities.
This exposure level of liquidity available at short-notice in Major sources of operational risk include: position broken down by individual foreign conjunction with a series of stress tests and outsourcing of operations, dependence on currency is then circulated to senior managers scenario analyses.
The framework and key suppliers, IT security, internal and external with an overall summary position provided to scenarios were developed in conjunction with fraud, implementation of strategic change, senior executives on a monthly basis.
Group Risk and approved by ALCO and the regulatory non-compliance, for example, misBoard.
Included within the scenarios are specific selling, process errors and external threats Funds raised in foreign currency are generally counterparty, Group and financial market such as the loss of a critical site.
converted to sterling using currency swaps.
events that might, but are unlikely to occur.
Residual foreign exchange risk is managed The Group manages this risk through through the use of foreign exchange The parameters and scenarios selected were appropriate controls and loss mitigation contracts.
It is also managed by matching determined through a combination of historical actions, including insurance.
These actions foreign currency denominated assets with data analysis and professional judgement to include a balance of policies, appropriate liabilities denominated in the same foreign generate the most severe possible liquidity procedures and internal controls to ensure currency and vice versa.
The stress tests and scenario analyses compliance with laws and regulations.
At a also consider the time period over which the detailed level, risk and control assurance is The Group also has in place a number of liquidity demands are most strong, typically facilitated by Group Risk in conjunction with standby liquidity facilities.
These allow the one week but also up to three months.
line managers on the risks and related Group to access funds in a range of control effectiveness within their areas currencies at short notice, although they are On the basis of this framework and scenario of responsibility.
available principally to support the Groups analysis, the Group met its liquidity activities raising funds in foreign currencies.
In addition, specialist support functions These facilities have not been drawn upon provide expertise in operational risk areas during the year.
The liquidity risk framework is reviewed and such as information security, health & safety, approved by ALCO and the Board on an compliance, fraud management, security Liquidity risk annual basis.
Liquidity reporting is undertaken and business continuity management.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, even if it weekly and circulated to senior members of has adequate capital, does not have sufficient Group Risk and Group Finance.
A process is in place for the recognition, funds to meet the Groups obligations as they capture, assessment analysis and reporting of fall due.
A liquidity shortfall could be caused by The Group has a Contingency Liquidity Plan risk events.
This process is used to help many factors including the withdrawal of that is also approved by ALCO and the Board.
identify where process and control customer deposits, the drawdown of customer This plan sets out the establishment of requirements are needed to reduce the borrowings or growth of the balance sheet.
a Steering Committee comprising senior recurrence of risk events.
members of the Group executive that will Liquidity risk management within the Group direct and co-ordinate the Groups actions Social, Environmental and Ethical SEE risks considers both the overall balance sheet to maintain liquidity during extraordinary Having identified the need to consider SEE risks structure and projected daily liquidity circumstances that materially disrupt normal within our risk management and control requirements, measuring the combined effect operations.
It sets out the responsibilities policies, our Group Strategy function now of asset and liability maturity mismatches of various executives in such circumstances.
includes SEE risks on their monthly risk analysis.
across the Group and undrawn commitments The Steering Committee has not been formed and other contingent obligations.
