OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT AND TREASURY REVIEW MARK COLLINS RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Treasury & Risk Director We have a strong risk management framework and compliant culture.
Our risk management and compliance teams are supported by an independent internal audit function provided by KPMG.
The principal risk management groups and their responsibilities are: GROUP BOARD Determine the groups appetite for risk Overall responsibility for the groups Categorise risks and determine which types are internal control systems, reporting on its acceptable effectiveness and dening the framework Approve major decisions affecting the groups risk for, and inuencing the culture of, risk prole or exposure Submit an annual Corporate Governance statement management across the group to shareholders AUDIT COMMITTEE Monitor effectiveness of internal controls, compliance, On behalf of the Board: risk management and internal audit Use services of external auditors and external risk assurance providers as required RISK.
Receive reports from the Risk Management Group We take considerable care to identify Receive annual risk management report from the risks, manage them conservatively and Director of Risk & Compliance price our products appropriately to reect RISK MANAGEMENT GROUP the credit risks involved.
Our appetite for Review key group risks and controls and risk is carefully considered and aligned their effectiveness to our strategic and corporate objectives.
Report to the Audit Committee twice yearly This is important as the areas of the on risk management market in which we operate are often RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE perceived to be high risk.
Review risks identied on the subsidiary risk registers and the effectiveness of controls and progress on risk treatment plans Review the risk log and associated documents to identify new or emerging risks to the business Report to the subsidiary Board SENIOR MANAGEMENT Review own risk registers with members of the Risk Management team Provide updates in respect of top risks to their respective Board Director Ensure that agreed action plans are actively progressed RISK DEPARTMENT Ensure internal audit and compliance activity defines and co-ordinates group wide risk is aligned to the corporate risk prole and provide management strategy and framework appropriate testing and monitoring Group and subsidiary risk mapping Support the Risk Management Group in its reporting on risk management and effectiveness of controls Advise on good practice, encourage risk awareness and co-ordinate training Support change management Prepare, maintain and test the business continuity plan COMPLIANCE DEPARTMENT Monitor regulatory changes, advise on implications Manages our relationship with regulators and set compliance policies and strategy and compliance with legal and regulatory Map and report on compliance risk requirements Monitor and report on compliance Manage customer services and legal services departments INTERNAL AUDIT Review whether risk management controls are Provides group wide risk-based independent effective, share good practice and recommend assurance and advice improvements where necessary Report to management and the Audit Committee 24 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 Some of the key risks that could impede our Once customers applications are approved Fig 1 ARREARS TRENDS % strategic progress, together with the action by one of our three central processing we take to mitigate them, are set out below.
units we allocate the vast majority of them to a branch near their home for ongoing Credit risk customer relationship management.
Our 20 The group takes on exposure to credit risk local branch staff maintain personal contact 15 in respect of loans and receivables, which with customers from the start.
This provides is the risk that a customer will be unable a vital advantage if customers encounter 10 to pay amounts in full when due.
Loan loss difficulties with repayments at any stage 5 provisions are provided for losses that have and gives us a better opportunity to help 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 been incurred at the balance sheet date.
them through their problems, perhaps by Direct repayment Consumer credit division significant changes in the economy could agreeing to accept lower payments for a Target range result in losses that are different from those period of time.
provided for at the balance sheet date.
Management therefore carefully manages Understanding and engaging with our Fig 2 its exposure to credit risk.
customers is our greatest differentiator and LOAN LOSS CHARGE the key to controlling arrears.
If we can help 2006 2005 Charge Charge We believe the largest challenge in our customers through a problem successfully, m % m % consumer lending business, Welcome we can still do business with them.
Should Direct Repayment 151.2 7.4 146.7 8.9 Financial Services, is credit risk.
Our a customer experience a longer-term adverse Home Collected 21.9 15.0 29.1 18.7 principal protections are the effectiveness of change in their financial position, account Consumer Credit 173.1 7.9 175.8 9.8 our bespoke credit scoring and underwriting management is transferred from the local Corporate Services 1.3 1.2 0.3 0.5 process and the way we maintain close branch to a specialist local collection unit Group 174.4 7.4 176.1 9.2 customer relationships through a national LCU.
The LCU then establishes a revised The loan loss charge excludes the gross-up adjustment network of local community branches.
repayment schedule more suited to the of 17.0m 2005: 33.3m At the time a loan is approved, direct customers changed circumstances.
repayment customers are all in employment, have bank accounts and are able to repay The direct repayment loan loss ratio their borrowings via a direct debit payment.
improved to 7.4% 2005: 8.9% of Exposure to credit risk is managed in part closing net receivables, demonstrating the Our principal risk protection with collateral obtained on certain products.
success of our significant investment in is the effectiveness of our strengthening customer selection processes bespoke credit scoring Our long established target is to maintain over the past three years and the close direct repayment arrears at 8-10% of customer relationships established by receivables and we have consistently our branch staff.
We maintain our close operated within or slightly below this customer relationships through range for many years.
The introduction Home collect customers continue to be of improved credit scorecards in served with small value, short-term advances a national network of local July 2004, together with enhancements typically 300. Credit risk is managed community branches to our customer selection technology and through regular analysis of the ability of arrears management techniques, brought borrowers to meet repayments and credit arrears below the target range and, at 31 limits are amended accordingly.
Our corporate services business, Cattles Invoice Finance, benets from a well Data from our bespoke scorecards diversied portfolio and robust underwriting continues to confirm our belief that the criteria.
We have excellent systems and 8-10% target represents an appropriate processes, but believe that personal attention risk appetite for our chosen non-standard is the key to controlling arrears.
As previously have structured the business to provide reported, we expect arrears to return exceptionally high levels of client contact gradually to within this range.
and service, with each client manager handling only 20-25 client relationships.
Applications for advances come through The loan loss ratio of the corporate services a variety of channels, including national division was 1.2% 2005: 0.5% in 2006, brokers and dealers, and we ensure a year during which receivables grew consistency of credit quality by managing signicantly to 80.2 million.
all scoring and underwriting centrally.
We rigorously verify the information Overall, the groups loan loss charge applicants give us and aim to understand of 174.4 million for 2006 was almost their outgoings and commitments so 2 million lower than in 2005.
The groups that we can be confident of our ability accounting policy relating to the impairment to lend responsibly and their capacity of loans and receivables is set out in the to meet repayments.
notes to the accounts on page 44.
25 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 They say you cant be too careful.
We aim to keep our direct repayment arrears rate steady at about 8-10%.
That tells us were taking the amount of risk were comfortable with.
At the end of 2006 the arrears rate was 7.4%.
Thats actually a little too low and we expect it to return gradually to its target range.
26 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT AND TREASURY REVIEW CONTINUED Reputational risk Legal risk Our reputation for fair and ethical conduct Cattles identies and manages legal risk is important to us.
Any impairment through the effective use of its internal could damage our marketing, customer and external legal advisers.
The Company relationships or dealings with regulators.
Secretary and Legal Counsel has We guard our reputation jealously and responsibilities for providing the support train customer facing staff to protect it necessary to identify, manage and for example through our support of the control legal risk across the group.
FSAs Treating Customers Fairly initiative.
In all our businesses we have well developed Tax risk procedures for resolving customer This is the risk of loss or increased charges complaints and queries.
associated with changes to, or error in the interpretation of, taxation rates or law.
In the debt recovery commission market Responsibility for control lies with the there are published league tables of debt Treasury & Risk Director and procedures collection performance.
The high ranking are in place to manage this risk, including of our subsidiary, The Lewis Group, in these taking external advice as necessary.
tables confirms that our collection strategies are effective.
To protect our own reputation Dened benefit pension scheme risk and those of our clients we have a strict Dened benefit pension scheme risk policy of using only ethical collection manifests if the group has to increase its methods, and as a member of the Credit level of funding of the final salary scheme.
Services Association we adhere to its This would occur if the value of the code of conduct.
schemes assets was insufficient over time to cover the projected pension liabilities.
Our compliance monitoring processes are designed to ensure that our operating The assets of the scheme are held in a licences are not put at risk and that we sell separate trustee-administered fund which all insurance products and broker mortgages has appointed an independent chairman in accordance with FSA regulations.
We to the board of the trustee company.
continually monitor compliance, reporting Contributions to the scheme are assessed to senior management and the Board.
Any in accordance with the advice of an potential improvements to our processes independent qualied actuary.
The scheme are considered and implemented was closed to new applicants in 1998. where appropriate.
The value of the groups retirement benefit Business continuity risk obligation reduced by 10.9 million to Loss of our information technology 23.8 million at 31 December 2006. infrastructure or key business premises The IAS 19 funding level scheme assets would adversely impact our operations.
as a percentage of scheme liabilities So we have approved policies for business improved from 57% to 70% during continuity management and IT disaster 2006 as a result of: recovery.
We pay particular attention to our increasing reliance on computer systems, The outperformance of the funds assets utilising the significant resources of third against the return assumed at the start party specialists such as IBM, under formal of the year: disaster recovery arrangements.
An increase in corporate bond yields relative to ination, which reduced the Compliance risk valuation of pension liabilities: Compliance or regulatory risks arise Additional contributions of 185,600 per from a failure or inability to comply with month being paid by the group towards the laws, regulations or codes applicable the fund deficit: and specically to the financial services industry.
A change in the pension scheme rules Non-compliance can lead to fines, public concerning the cash option that members reprimands and enforced suspension of can take at retirement.
operations or, in extreme cases, withdrawal of authorisation to operate.
The group has a dedicated compliance function which has implemented controls and systems to monitor and manage these risks.
These include monitoring regulatory and legal changes, advising on implications and setting compliance policies and strategy.
27 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT AND TREASURY REVIEW CONTINUED TREASURY RISK MANAGEMENT Details of our funding facilities and their exchange rate movements.
Together The groups significant debt nancing and maturity dates are set out in the Maturity with our two publicly quoted bond issues customer lending exposes it to a variety of facilities table.
See Fig 6. amounting to 474 million, the groups of potential financial risks that include the xed rate funding totalled 661 million effects of changes in interest rates, foreign These include: at 31 December 2006. currency exchange rates, liquidity and concentration of funding.
The group has Syndicated and bilateral bank facilities Bank funding during the year increased in place a risk management programme US private placements by 344 million to 1.1 billion at that seeks to limit the adverse effects on Bond issues 31 December 2006. the financial performance of the group Overdraft facilities by using financial instruments, such as In May 2006, we launched a new bank interest rate and cross-currency swaps The group is careful to avoid building fundraising to raise 500 million replacing to x interest rates.
a concentration of facilities with a relatively expiring bank facilities of 393 million and small group of partners.
In order to providing some additional finance.
This The Board of directors has delegated, avoid such a concentration the group has was well received by the bank market and within limits, the policies for setting out the established funding in the bank, public we were able to raise 800 million at terms treasury risk management policies applied bond and US private placement markets.
which were signicantly better than those by the group to the Treasury & Risk Bank facilities currently include a syndicate for the expiring facilities.
These policies are implemented of over 30 banking partners.
It is the groups to receive increased support from our directly by the treasury team on behalf of intention that funding with any individual existing lenders and also pleased to welcome the group.
The team has a risk management counterparty would not normally exceed several new banks to this syndicated loan.
policy that sets out specic guidelines to 20% of total group funding.
Gearing increased over the year, to 5.1 times manage interest rate, foreign exchange 2005: 4.4 times, and remains well within and credit risk and the use of financial Existing and forecast headroom levels our covenant of six times.
The overall cost instruments in relation to these.
are reported and reviewed at each Board of funds during the year reduced to 6.79% meeting.
While there is no set minimum level 2005: 7.14% See Fig 3.
Liquidity risk and funding of headroom, under normal circumstances We fund our businesses through syndicated the intention would be to maintain no less Cash ow and bilateral facilities with major UK and than six months headroom.
The groups net operating cash outow international banks and through private and rose by 273 million during 2006 to public debt offerings.
The current syndicated Borrowings 376 million, largely driven by an increase and bilateral facilities last for periods of up The group continues to use the bank, in loans and receivables of 432 million to six years.
In order to continue to fund the public bond and private placement in the year.
See Fig 4. expected growth in the groups receivables markets as its principal sources of funding.
these facilities will typically be renewed Total borrowings increased by 398 million Headroom and or increased on their termination.
during the year to 1.8 billion at The group maintains a mixture of long- 31 December 2006. term and short-term committed facilities There is a risk that there will be a lack that are designed to ensure that the group of available funding and that significant During the year the group successfully raised has sufficient available funds for current volume and value of facilities renewing the Sterling equivalent of 68 million in the operations and planned growth.
The group within a short timeframe may result in private placement market bringing the total had bank facilities of 1.4 billion at the a restriction of the level of funds offered funding provided to the group by that end of 2006 and headroom of 336 million or a higher cost of funding.
In line with our 2005: 1.0 billion of facilities and standard policy, we immediately swapped 274 million of headroom respectively.
out all currency risk to avoid exposure to See Fig 5.
Fig 3 Fig 4 BORROWINGS OPERATING CASH FLOW 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m Public bonds 474 474 profit before tax 132.2 115.1 Private placement Sterling 91 70 Depreciation and other non cash items 9.7 7.8 Private placement US$ & 96 63 Increase in loans and receivables 431.6 255.7 Total bonds 661 607 Changes in working capital 86.5 29.1 Operating cash ow 376.2 103.7 Syndicated bank loans 979 641 Overdrafts and bilaterals 82 76 Total bank 1,061 717 Total bank and bonds 1,722 1,324 Finance leases and other borrowings 12 12 Accruals prepayments of interest and fees 21 21 Total borrowings 1,755 1,357 Gearing 5.1x 4.4x Average cost of funds 6.79% 7.14% 28 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 Maturity of facilities Currency risk The 2006 bank syndication of 800 million Certain funding received from banks or provides options to extend the five year other sources may not be in Sterling.
This term on its first and second anniversary by creates a potential exposure to the risk of a further 12 months, and the latest US adverse foreign exchange rate movements.
private placement funding matures in 2011.
Our overall average maturity of around four It is the policy of the group to manage the and a half years gives us a strong funding risk of exposure to adverse foreign exchange position, with only 125 million maturing rate movements by the use of financial in 2007, and 27 million in 2008.
In order to achieve this, all foreign currency denominated Interest rate risk borrowings are immediately swapped Funding received from banks and other into Sterling at the start of the related providers is a mixture of xed rate and facility agreement.
Floating rate borrowings are exposed to the risk of rising interest rates and the group manages this risk by the use of financial hedging instruments, primarily swaps.
MARK COLLINS Treasury & Risk Director At 31 December 2006, around 80% of the 15 March 2007 groups borrowings were protected against future interest rate volatility, either through xed rate borrowing or by using interest rate swaps to protect oating rate borrowings.
As a result, a hypothetical 1% change in market interest rates would change our current annual interest cost by around only 3.5 million.
Counterparty credit risk At any point in time, Cattles will have an exposure to any of its counterparties arising from treasury activities.
Management of counterparty credit risk is assisted by ensuring that derivative counterparties and other counterparties that hold Cattles funds on deposit or credit balances on bank accounts should carry a long-term credit rating of higher than BBB, or equivalent.
