Key risks are identi ed, measured where by the Board.
The model is based on Introduction appropriate, and managed to achieve a the concept of three lines of defence: Identi cation, measurement and management balance between risk and reward, which Within operating divisions, primary of risk is a strategic priority for HBOS.
The is acceptable to the Board.
Each year management responsibility for strategy, provision of financial services carries a the Board carries out a formal strategic performance management and risk number of diverse risks which may have a review of risk management, and also control lies with the Divisional Chief material impact on financial performance.
reassesses its appetite for risk in light of Executives first line of defence.
They Consequently, the Board has established the Groups annual business plan.
This have responsibility for managing strategic, a comprehensive framework covering focus on aligning the taking of risk with the market, credit, liquidity, regulatory and accountability, oversight, measurement and achievement of business objectives means operational issues and risks affecting their reporting to maintain high standards of risk that the control system is designed to own operations within the parameters of management throughout the Group.
manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can Group policies.
Each operating division provide only reasonable, and not absolute, also has its own risk management The principal risks faced by HBOS are: assurance against material misstatement committee or committees.
Credit Risk - the risk of financial loss from or loss.
The Board also reviews risk Centralised policies and standards are a customers failure to meet obligations as management performance through regular developed and objective oversight of risk they fall due.
management is exercised by specialist Market Risk - fide ned as the potential Responsibility for risk is a key element risk functions, supporting the Groups loss in value or earnings arising from of managers competencies at all levels.
Executive Committee and Executive Risk changes in external market factors such For each major risk type, specialist teams Committees second line of defence : and as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, have been established where appropriate, Independent and objective assurance commodities and equities, and the potential both in the divisions and at Group level, on the effectiveness of control systems for customers to act in a manner which to ensure that guidance is available for is provided by Group Internal Audit with is inconsistent with business, pricing and managers within the Group.
Specialist oversight by the Audit Committee third hedging assumptions.
risk managers are tasked with researching line of defence.
Liquidity or Funding Risk - the risk that the industry best practice, and with ensuring Group does not have suf cient financial that standards and policies within the This model operates through a formal resources to meet its obligations when Group are progressively developed to governance structure, comprising they are due, or will have to do so at improve risk management practice.
committees with speci ed areas of excessive cost.
Staff and systems resources are dedicated responsibility, supported by management Insurance and Investment Risk - the to ensuring that risk management functions with a similar remit.
potential for loss through adverse claims, information is accurate, timely and relevant expense and persistency experience, from to the business, re ecting the true position The Committee Framework both life and general insurance contracts.
The Group Executive Risk Committees develop Operational Risk - arising from internal the policies and parameters within which processes, people and systems or from The Board has overall responsibility for the operating divisions are required to manage external events.
Groups system of control and approval of risk.
The Committees provide central oversight Regulatory change - the risk to HBOS principal risk policies and standards, which by reviewing and challenging the work of the strategy, reputation and financial position are continually evolving.
The Board is also operating divisions own risk committees and arising from failure to respond to changes responsible for reviewing the effectiveness considering the application of appropriate risk in laws, regulations or business standards of the systems and controls.
in the jurisdictions and businesses in which of control described in this section has been we operate.
in place throughout the period to the date of The four speci c Executive Risk Committees approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
are: This Report has been audited by KPMG Audit It accords with the Turnbull guidance on Group Credit Risk Committee, which plc from the section entitled Credit Risk on internal control and has also been reviewed covers all credit risk matters: page 83 to the end of the section entitled by the Board speci cally for the purposes Group Market Risk Committee, which General Insurance on page 89. of this statement.
is responsible for all trading and market risk matters: The Risk Management Framework Group Insurance Risk Committee, which is Management HBOS allocates speci c roles in the responsible for insurance risks, within the and controls management of risk to executives and senior insurance and investment businesses: and managers and to the Board and Executive Group Operational Risk Committee, Principles Within the Group, risk is managed in Committees.
This is undertaken within an responsible for operational and overall framework and strategy established regulatory risks.
accordance with the following principles: Risk Management 81 HBOS Board Group Chief Executive 1st Line of Defence 2nd Line of Defence 3rd Line of Defence Group Functions Audit Committee Group Capital Committee Group Finance Director Group Funding & Liquidity Committee Share Market Activity Committee Divisional Risk Control Group Regulatory Capital Adequacy Committee Committees Group Credit Risk Committee Group Market Risk Committee Group Executive Divisional Group Internal Risk Committee Chief Executives Audit Director Group Insurance Risk Committee supported by Divisional Risk Committees Group Operational Risk Committee Diagram 1 The Group has an established specialist Group Finance Director and operates under scenario and contingency planning Group Risk function, reporting to the delegated authority from the Board, to: and management strategies in that Group Risk Director, in support of these Oversee and manage the Groups Balance regard in co-operation with the Committees.
Its accountabilities are: Sheet and Capital in accordance with the Executive Risk Committees.
to recommend Group policies, Board approved Group Business Plan Establish and recommend for approval standards and limits: through: to the Board, the Groups appetite for to monitor compliance with those Establishing and monitoring compliance Liquidity Risk, including relevant policy policies, standards and limits: with the Groups Capital Plan in line Group Liquidity Policy Statement to provide leadership in the development with the Board approved Group Capital and standards and monitoring the and implementation of risk management Policy: implementation of those policies and techniques: and Establishing and monitoring compliance standards within the HBOS Group.
to aggregate risks arising in the operating with the Group Funding Plan: divisions and to monitor the overall Group Establishing policies and standards Strategy, Risk Control and Oversight position independently from the divisions to measure and monitor the financial The Groups risk appetite is established by own analysis.
resource requirements of the Group the Board.
The strategy for managing risk is in accordance with regulatory formulated by the Executive Committee and Consideration of capital, liquidity and requirements, including: recommended to the Board for approval.
balance sheet management is undertaken Establishing and monitoring execution The Executive Committee also reviews the on an integrated basis.
All capital and funding of strategies for the management of effectiveness of risk management systems related activities are the responsibility of the non-trading related balance sheet through reports from management and Group Capital Committee, supported by three risks within approved risk appetite, the Group Executive Risk Committees.
sub-committees, which focus on the core policy and standards as monitored by aspects of overall Group requirements.
The the Group Market Risk Committee : Divisional management has primary Group Capital Committee is chaired by the Establishing and reviewing stress, responsibility for identifying and evaluating Risk Management continued Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Colleague development Capital discipline 82 signi cant risks to the business and for Risk type Management Measurement designing and operating suitable controls.
Internal and external risks are assessed, including economic factors, control Credit Risk Expected Loss breakdowns, disruption of information Probability Default systems, competition and regulatory Regulation requirements.
The assessment process is designed to be consistent across the Market Risk Value at Risk divisions and Group Functions and uses Net Interest Income at Risk Policies an iterative challenge process to provide successive assurances to ascending levels of management up to the Board.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity Cover Procedures Stock Liquidity In judging the effectiveness of the Groups Limit Structures controls, the Board reviews the reports Specialist Risk of the Audit Committee and management.
Insurance Risk Risk Specific KPIs Functions It also considers key performance indicators and reviews monthly financial and business performance showing variances against budget.
Divisional & Executive Operational Risk Risk & Control Assessment Risk Committees Certain responsibilities are delegated to the Internal Loss Reporting Audit Committee, including ensuring that there is regular review of the adequacy and ef ciency of internal control procedures.
Diagram 2 This role provides independent and objective assurance that there is an appropriate control structure throughout the Group.
that culminated on 25 October 2006 with the Management Financial Services Authority FSA Board The Audit Committee, which is supported by approving final GENPRU and BIPRU rules of key risks Divisional Risk Control Committees, obtains for adoption into the Prudential Sourcebook assurance about the internal control and risk for Banks, Building Societies and Investment The Group is committed to developing management environment through regular Firms.
This legislative process enacts the reports from Group Risk and Group Internal its risk management techniques and European Capital Requirements Directive methodologies, both to maintain high Audit.
It also considers external auditors and, therefore, the Basel II Capital Accord, reports and reviews the minutes and work standards of risk management practice in the UK with effect from 1 January 2007. and to ful l the requirements of UK and of the Divisional Risk Control Committees.
HBOS continues to promote a prudent and Further details of the work of the Audit responsible approach to the management of Committee are provided in the Corporate capital.
Management and the Boards view Credit Risk Governance Report on pages 93 to 98. of future requirements will continue to be the Credit risk is the risk of financial loss from main determinant of total capital holdings.
a counterpartys failure to settle financial The Basel II Accord HBOS has elected to adopt transitional obligations as they fall due.
HBOS continues to make good progress arrangements in 2007 and remain on the with Basel II preparations.
The primary current Basel I rules to determine minimum The Group Credit Risk Committee, one of goal of our programme has always been regulatory capital requirements.
the Executive Risk Committees, is chaired to optimise the way we do business through by the Group Risk Director and comprises an improved risk management capability.
HBOS has submitted Advanced Internal senior executives from across the operating The overarching objective of all HBOS activity Ratings Based Approach and Advanced divisions and Group Functions.
It meets is to deliver sustainable income streams Measurement Approach waiver applications monthly and reviews the Groups lending and generate added shareholder value and to the FSA and is seeking approval to adopt portfolio.
It also assists the Board in the Basel II programme is integral to our the more sophisticated approaches to capital formulating the Groups credit risk appetite.
During 2006 the determination from 1 January 2008.
We The Group Credit Risk Policy Statement, to UK legislative process gathered signi cant continue to maintain a close dialogue be applied across all businesses subject to momentum with the publication of several with the FSA to work through credit risk, is approved by the Board on an consultative papers and feedback statements the accreditation process.
83 Group Credit, a specialist support function established and reviewed by the Group such risk is within the Groups financial within Group Risk, provides centralised Wholesale Credit Committee GWCC, capability, management understanding expertise in the area of credit risk a sub-committee of the Group Credit Risk and staff competence: measurement and management techniques.
the Group complies with all regulatory In addition to reporting on the performance requirements relating to the taking of of each divisional portfolio to the Group An additional measure within the credit risk market risk: Credit Risk Committee, Group Credit framework is the establishment of product, the quality of the Groups pro ts is exercises independent oversight over the industrial sector and country limits to avoid appropriately managed and its reputation effectiveness of credit risk management excessive concentrations of risk particularly safeguarded: and arrangements and adherence to agreed within volatile economic sectors or individual those making decisions have appropriate policies, standards and limits.
Material portfolio areas, such as information on market risk, such that the the mortgages portfolios, have approved taking of market risk enhances shareholder Day to day management of credit risk sub-sector limits to ensure that they remain value.
is undertaken by specialist credit teams within our plans and tolerance for risk.
All working within each division in compliance such limits are set and monitored by the Risk appetite is set by the Board which with policies approved by the Board.
Typical Group Credit Risk Committee.
The controls allocates responsibility for oversight and functions undertaken by these teams include applied to lending assessment processes management of market risk to the Group credit sanctioning, portfolio management and consider environmental risk and the potential Market Risk Committee, one of the Executive the management and collection of high risk impact this may have on the value of the Risk Committees, and chaired by the Group and defaulted accounts.
To mitigate credit risk, a wide range of Standards have been established across the The Group devotes considerable resources to policies and techniques are used across Group for the management of credit risk.
ensuring that market risk is comprehensively the Group: All divisions are committed to continuously captured, accurately modelled and reported, For Retail portfolios, use is made of improving credit risk management and there and effectively managed.
Trading and nonsoftware technology in credit scoring new have been signi cant levels of investment in trading portfolios are managed at various applications.
In addition, where practical, the development of credit risk rating tools, organisational levels, from the HBOS Group behavioural scoring is used to provide an including portfolio risk measurement systems overall, down to speci c business areas.
assessment of the conduct of a customers in preparation for the introduction of the Market risk measurement and management accounts in granting extensions to, Basel II Accord.
methods are designed to meet or exceed and setting limits for, existing facilities.
industry standards, and the tools used facilitate Affordability is an increasingly important Within the insurance and investment internal market risk management and reporting, measure and is reviewed in combination businesses, formal policies and an overall as well as external disclosure requirements.
with either application and or behavioural risk appetite, approved by the Board of the scores.
Collections activity for credit card, relevant insurance subsidiary, are in use Market risk is controlled across the current accounts and personal loans is together with a regular monitoring process Group by setting limits using a range of centralised for the various products and to help ensure compliance.
The principal software systems are used to prioritise methodologies are Value-at-Risk VaR, action.
Mortgage collection is conducted Market Risk Net Interest Income NII at Risk and through a number of payment collection Market risk is fide ned as the potential loss scenario analysis.
NII at Risk is a technique departments.
Small business customers in value or earnings of the organisation that provides estimates of the potential may be rated using scorecards in a similar arising from: negative change in the forecast NII of a manner to retail customers.
changes in external market factors such portfolio over a speci ed time horizon for For Corporate portfolios, a full independent as interest rates interest rate risk, foreign a speci c interest rate environment.
VaR credit assessment of the financial strength exchange rates foreign exchange risk, is a technique that produces estimates of of each potential transaction and or commodities and equities: and the potential negative change in the market customer is undertaken, awarding an the potential for customers to act value of a portfolio over a speci ed time internal credit risk rating.
Internal ratings in a manner which is inconsistent horizon at given con dence levels.
The same with business, pricing and hedging analysis is performed in order to estimate approach is also used for larger SME assumptions.
the potential economic loss that could arise small to medium enterprise customers.
from extreme, but plausible stress events.
Within HBOS Treasury Services Treasury, The objectives of the Groups market risk In 2006 the Group introduced market value largely incorporating the Groups framework are to ensure that: methodology for its banking businesses to wholesale, sovereign and banking related market risk is taken only in accordance expand on the Groups capabilities exposures, focused credit risk policies are with the Boards appetite for such risk: in capturing market risk.
Risk Management continued Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Colleague development Capital discipline 84 Detailed market risk framework documents and repricing assumptions of planned Foreign Exchange Risk and limit structures have been developed future activity.
The change to forecast NII The Group Funding & Liquidity Committee for each division.
These are tailored to the is calculated with reference to different is responsible for oversight and management speci c market risk characteristics and interest rate scenarios.
These scenarios of structural foreign currency risk.
The Group business objectives of each operating range from next most likely rate move to Funding & Liquidity Committee manages division.
Each divisional policy requires a signi cant parallel shock.
foreign currency exposures based on appropriate divisional sanction, and is Present Value of a Basis Point PVBP.
forecast currency information provided then forwarded to the Group Market Risk PVBP is a measure of market value by the operating divisions, and mandates Committee for approval on at least an sensitivity and quanti es the change in Treasury to execute transactions and annual basis.
present value of cash ows for a one basis undertake currency programmes to manage point change in interest rates.
The risk position Market risk within the insurance and Market Value Measures Banking Book.
is monitored monthly by the Group Market investment businesses arises in a number of A dynamic balance sheet mark to market Risk Committee.
ways and depending upon the product, some is a risk measurement that considers risks are borne directly by the customer, future business and customer behaviour Transaction exposures arise primarily from and some by the insurance and investment implications to capture the optionality pro ts generated in the overseas operations, company.
In the case of the risk borne by embedded within the banking books.
which will be remitted back to the UK and the customer, this is controlled by adherence Duration.
Duration provides a single then converted into sterling.
to, and regular monitoring of, investment measure of a portfolios average maturity mandates and, if appropriate, unit pricing as calculated when considering all future Translation exposures arise due to earnings systems and controls.
In the case of the cash ows of that portfolio, discounted at that are retained within the overseas company, the overall risk appetites and current market rates.
operations and reinvested within their own policies are approved by the companys balance sheets.
The Board has delegated authority to the Group Market Risk Committee to allocate Structural foreign exchange exposures Market risk, principally interest rate and limits to business areas as appropriate within are set out in Note 43 to the Accounts on equity, also arises from the Groups fide ned the overall risk appetite, as approved by the page 182. bene t pensions obligations.
In turn, the Group Market sensitivities are regularly measured and Risk Committee has granted limits, which Trading are reported to the Group Market Risk represent the risk tolerance for each division.
The Groups market risk trading activities Committee every month.
are principally conducted by Treasury.
This Interest rate risk arising in the course of Group activity is subject to a Trading Book Group Items centrally managed net free business is required to be transferred to Policy Statement, which is approved by the reserves, subordinated debt and structural Treasury from the banking divisions.
The Board, and limits set by the Group Market foreign exchange are managed within residual risk in the banking divisions is Risk Committee.
separate policies and limits mandates, primarily that related either to behavioural as set by the Group Capital Committee.
characteristics or to basis risk arising from Treasury trading primarily centres around two imperfect correlations in the adjustment activities: proprietary trading and trading on the Interest Rate Risk of rates earned and paid on different back of business ows.
Both activities incur The primary market risk faced by the Group instruments with otherwise similar market risk, the majority being interest rate and is interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk exists characteristics.
The framework where the Groups financial assets and for managing the market risk in these activities liabilities have interest rates set under different Sensitivity to interest rate movements requires detailed and tailored modelling bases, or which reset at different times.
is shown in Note 41 to the Accounts on techniques, which are the responsibility of the pages 180 and 181 which provides the Treasury Market Risk team.
The Board limit for structural interest rate risk year end repricing pro le for the Groups is expressed in terms of potential volatility financial assets and liabilities in the nonThe Group employs several complementary of net interest income in adverse market trading book, which includes lending, funding techniques to measure and control trading conditions.
Risk exposures will be monitored and liquidity activities.
The methodology used activities including: Value at Risk VaR, using one or a combination of the following in analysing the year end repricing pro le sensitivity analysis, stress testing and measures: does not take into consideration the effects position limits.
The VaR model used, Net Interest Income at Risk.
This of behavioural and basis risk issues, hence forecasts the Groups exposure to market methodology combines an analysis of for internal management of risk the Group risk within an estimated level of con dence the Groups interest rate risk position relies on a number of methodologies, as over a fide ned time period.
overlaid with behavioural assessment described above.
85 The average VaR value in 2006 was 4.2m.
The Groups activity in derivatives is factors.
An assessment is also made for the The calculation is based upon a con dence controlled within risk management limits set possible out ow from customer deposits and level of 99% with a one-day holding period.
by the Board and overseen by the relevant committed facilities, determined by prudential The principal areas of market risk taken are Group Risk Committees.
interest rate outright positioning, basis, recognises the principal risks including credit spread and volatility risk, and foreign credit, operational, liquidity and market The Groups approach to the management exchange risk.
Details of of liquidity goes beyond the Sterling Stock derivative contracts outstanding at the yearLiquidity approach used by the FSA, in that The current methodology for providing end are included in Note 13 to the Accounts it includes measures of liquidity cover out an aggregated VaR for the business uses on pages 148 and 149. to one month, and measures for currencies conservative assumptions.
In order to assess other than sterling.
Whilst following this the effectiveness of VaR the Group uses a Liquidity Risk Funding approach, the Group also adheres to the technique known as back testing, which Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does FSAs Sterling Stock Liquidity policy, of which compares the daily pro t and loss from not have suf cient financial resources to a key element is that a bank should hold a trading activities to the VaR estimate for meet its obligations when they come due, or stock of high quality liquid assets that can that day.
Daily standard deviation of trading will have to do so at excessive cost.
This risk be sold quickly and discreetly in order to pro t and loss was 0.6m.
can arise from mismatches in the timing of replace funding that has been withdrawn due cash ows relating to assets, liabilities to an actual or perceived problem with the The Group recognises that the VaR and off-balance sheet instruments.
The objective is that this stock should methodology cannot guarantee the maximum enable the bank to continue business, whilst loss that may be suffered in any trading The Group Liquidity Policy Statement is providing an opportunity to arrange more period, particularly in the event of market approved by the Board and fide fines the permanent funding solutions.
Therefore, stress testing is used core principles for identifying, measuring, to simulate the effect of selected adverse managing and monitoring liquidity risk across The FSA has a prescriptive regime for market movements.
Detailed liquidity risk framework retail banks that speci es the formula for documents and limit structures are in place determining both the quantum and type of The Groups trading market risk exposure for the Groups operations in the UK and assets qualifying for Sterling Stock Liquidity.
for the year ended 31 December 2006 is Australia, where liquidity is managed on a Sterling Stock Liquidity is regarded as a cost analysed in Note 42 on page 182 to the Group basis, and for overseas banking units of doing business.
It is not regarded as an Accounts.
The regulatory capital charge for subject to speci c regulatory requirements.
operational liquidity pool as it will always market risk trading exposures represents The responsibility to direct the management be required in case of emergency.
From only 1.93% of the Groups capital base.
of liquidity and to report against policy is an operational perspective, the Group will delegated to the Group Capital Committee.
place greater reliance on market access to Derivatives funding sources and the retention of a pool In the normal course of banking business, Policy is reviewed at least annually to ensure of diversi ed assets that can be sold in an the Group uses a limited range of derivative its continued relevance to the Groups current ef cient and discreet manner.
instruments for both trading and nonand planned operations.
The principal derivative management is delegated to Treasury.
The The Group also adheres to the requirements instruments used are interest rate swaps, Group Funding & Liquidity Committee a subof other regulatory authorities including the interest rate options, cross currency swaps, committee of the Group Capital Committee Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority forward rate agreements, forward foreign oversees the controls exercised by Treasury.
and the Irish Financial Regulator in whose exchange contracts and futures.
The Group jurisdictions the Group has branches or uses derivatives as a risk management The Board requires that prudential liquidity subsidiaries.
tool for hedging interest rate and foreign limits should be set by the Group Funding exchange rate risk.
& Liquidity Committee, both at aggregate The funding capacity of the Group is levels and for individual currencies in which dependent upon factors such as the strength Examples of how derivatives are used the Group has signi cant wholesale funding.
of the balance sheet, earnings, asset quality, in managing and mitigating market risk These limits are established by way of ratings and market position.
The Group exposures arising from banking services cash ow mismatch and are quanti ed over Funding & Liquidity Committee assesses the and activities are: two time horizons from sight to eight Group funding mix to ensure that adequate Fixed interest rate swaps are used to days and from sight to one month.
It is Group policy to manage the interest rate risk of xed rate manage its balance sheet pro le to ensure mortgages: and For the purpose of calculation, marketable customer deposits sourced outside of Basis swaps are used to manage exposure assets are subject to both instrument Treasury represents a signi cant component between 1 month LIBOR and base rates.
concentration limits and prudential discount of its overall funding, and the Group Funding Risk Management continued Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Colleague development Capital discipline 86 & Liquidity Committee directs and coand maintenance of the overall insurance the guarantees provided to policyholders, ordinates the activities of the operating risk management framework, covering the dependency on the performance of divisions in raising liabilities from insurance risk in each business individually, investment markets and the extent to which a range of sources.
Within Treasury, the as well as in aggregate.
As part of the assets backing the contractual liabilities Group avoids undue concentration by overall Group risk management framework, are matched.
maintaining both a widespread mix of the Group Insurance & Investment Risk counterparties and inward credit lines and team provides regular support to the The quality, mix and volume of business a core set of bank and non-bank depositor Group Market Risk Committee and to have a signi cant in uence on the extent relationships providing a stable source the Group Credit Risk Committee on the of insurance and investment risk assumed of funding.
The Group Funding & Liquidity inter-relationship between insurance risk by the Group and resulting pro ts.
The Committee approves the appropriate and investment risks market, credit and quality of business written is in uenced by balance of short to medium term funding.
liquidity risks respectively arising within variations in product terms as well as the these businesses, and the development of average premium size, age and term pro le The Group has established a Liquidity appropriate policies and standards for the within the particular products.
Accordingly, Contingency Planning Framework to identify management of those risks.
the mix in products written may impact on liquidity stress situations at an early stage.
pro ts, depending on the nature, extent The majority of the Groups long term and pro tability of new business in addition General Insurance & Long Term Assurance insurance and investment contract liabilities to existing business.
This risk is managed Business Risks are managed within the HBOS Insurance & through the application of clear pricing The general insurance and long term Investment division and Insight Investment policies that require full financial assessment assurance business contracts underwritten with approximately 3% 2005 4% operated for each new product, incorporating by the Group expose the Group to both by the life businesses outside the UK.
consideration of expected hurdle rates investment and insurance risk.
Day to day management of insurance of return.
and investment risk is undertaken both Insurance risk is the potential for loss, by divisional and business management Additionally, variations in administration and arising out of adverse claims, expense and supported by specialist risk functions.
Use development costs may impact the available persistency experience, from both life and is made of the statutory actuarial roles, pro t margin within the product charges.
both to help ensure regulatory compliance manage this risk, there is a regular process in respect of the authorised insurance of expense budgeting and reporting with Investment risk is the potential for financial companies in the Group and to help meet appropriate targets set for new insurance and loss arising from the risks associated with Group standards in respect of the operation investment products that are developed.
the investment management activities of of comprehensive Insurance and Investment the Group.
Investment risk includes market, Risk Management frameworks.
The risks associated with particular sections credit and liquidity risks.
The loss can be of the long term assurance business are set as a result of: Long Term Assurance out below.
Direct risks relating to changes in the The insurance and investment business value of Group assets in support of the that is transacted by the life insurance Unit Linked Funds general insurance and long term insurance companies within the Group comprises unit For unit linked funds, including consolidated contracts: linked business, other non pro t business collective investment schemes, which Indirect risks arising from policyholder and with-pro ts business described as comprise 74% 2005 68% of the Groups funds where the assets and policyholder insurance contracts and investment contracts long term insurance and investment contract liabilities are matched: and with discretionary participating features liabilities, investors bear the investment risk, Indirect risks associated with the DPF written within the with-pro ts fund.
with changes in the underlying investments management of assets held on behalf being matched by changes in the underlying of third parties.
Several companies within the insurance and contract liabilities.
Similarly, the Group investment business transact either unit manages a number of collective investment The Group Insurance Risk Committee, linked and or other non pro t business, but schemes where the investors bear the one of the Executive Risk Committees all with-pro ts business is underwritten by investment risks.
The investment risk which described on page 81, considers regular Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited the investor assumes depends on the funds reports on speci ed aggregate insurance Clerical Medical, part of HBOS Financial in which the deposits are invested and is an risks across all of the Groups insurance Services Limited.
intrinsic part of the risks and returns for the and investment businesses.
The investor selects from a range of takes a technical and expert perspective on The key characteristics of long term investment opportunities available from the insurance risks within these businesses.
It assurance that give rise to insurance and Group in accordance with their personal risk oversees the development, implementation investment risk are its long term nature, appetite and circumstances.
87 On a day-to-day basis, cash out ows which development stage and initiatives within For unitised with-pro ts contracts the are necessitated by investors withdrawing the relevant businesses to encourage Group receives an annual management their funds are generally met by cash in ows customer retention.
For traditional with-pro ts contracts, from new investors.
In circumstances where which form the minority of the with-pro ts funds are contracting, or to meet unusually Non Pro t Business fund business, the Group receives one ninth high levels of withdrawals, the Group The Group has a large and diversi ed of bonuses declared to policyholders as long sells assets in the fund in order to meet portfolio of life insurance and annuity as there is a distributable surplus within the cash demands with any dealing costs policies within its portfolio of non pro t the fund.
charged to the underlying unit linked fund insurance contracts, which includes the and consequently the policyholders.
The insurance risk component of unit linked Ordinarily, variations in the capital value underlying assets in the unit linked funds policies classi ed as insurance contracts.
of the funds assets would result in variations are subject to credit and market risks in the The principal investment risk in respect of in the level of bene ts available to the withform of interest rate, equity prices, foreign the non pro t business is interest rate risk pro ts contract holders and accordingly a exchange and other market risks depending which arises because assets and liabilities variation in the insurance and investment on the fund.
These changes are matched may exhibit differing changes in value as a contracts with DPF liabilities.
Included in the by changes in the unit linked liabilities.
result of changes in interest rates.
This may with-pro ts fund are certain contracts with Accordingly, the Group is not directly potentially impact on the results and the minimum payment guarantees at certain exposed to signi cant liquidity, credit or capital position.
The investment risk also policy durations and on death.
Of these market risks, although the investors bene ts includes the risk of increases in corporate with-pro ts contracts issued between 1997 will vary as a consequence.
Decreases in the bond yield spreads over government risk free and 2001, a signi cant proportion have capital value of unit linked funds as a result yields or the ratings downgrade of certain guaranteed bene ts which are in the money of falls in market values of equities, property securities, both of which reduce the capital at the balance sheet date.
The costs of or xed interest assets will however reduce value of the bonds.
These risks are controlled meeting these guarantees, up to a certain the future annual investment management by processes carried out to help ensure an level, are met by charges to the bene ts for charges that will be earned from unit linked appropriate level of matching is maintained all with-pro ts contract policyholders.
The Group estimates that if in the funds so that changes in xed interest amount of these guaranteed bene ts, net of the capital value of the unit linked funds, assets backing the non pro t business charges to be levied on policyholder funds, excluding consolidated collective investment are substantially mitigated by offsetting was less than 1% of the Groups long term schemes, classi ed as investment contracts changes in liabilities, including the use of and insurance and investment contract liabilities had been reduced, on average by 10% for monitoring against fund mandates.
at the balance sheet date.
Above this level the year, the pro t before tax for the year the costs are met by the free assets of the would have decreased by 25m 2005 19m.
The ultimate amounts payable under these fund the assets maintained in the fund For unit linked contracts classi ed as either policies are sensitive to general trends in which are not held to meet contractual insurance contracts or investment contracts mortality rates.
There remains a risk that Clerical with DPF the Group has considered the 2005 2% of the Groups long term insurance Medical may suffer an additional charge sensitivities to a number of risks in Note 24 and investment contract liabilities, there is a in exceptional circumstances where even to the Accounts on page 159. risk that increases to life expectancy through after management action, the fund is unable medical advances will prove greater than to meet the costs of guarantees within Unit linked products provide some discretion that anticipated.
For protection business, the the fund.
This is set out in the Principles for variation in annual administration charges, risk is that an unforeseen event such as a and Practices of the With-Pro ts Fund, and therefore management of variations in natural disaster will cause a material increase available from the Clerical Medical expenses may be achieved through variation in death rates.
The extent of the Groups Investment Group website in charges.
exposure to insurance risks is set out in Note www.
26 to the Accounts on pages 160 to 163.
An additional risk the Group faces in As well as pooling of risks, the other respect of unit linked business is the risk With-Pro ts Fund important measures in controlling the that increases to surrender rates for both The Insurance and Investment business investment risk within the with-pro ts insurance and investment contracts reduces includes the Clerical Medical With-Pro ts fund include having agreed management the value of future investment management Fund which comprises 20% 2005 26% actions to adjust the nature and extent of charges.
Actions to control and monitor this of the Groups long term insurance and investment exposure in response to certain risk include charges applicable on some investment contract liabilities.
The withinvestment conditions: by recognising and products where the investor surrenders early, pro ts fund takes some investment risks with holding appropriate levels of risk capital: by regular experience monitoring, consideration the aim of enhancing policyholder returns but restricting holdings to assets which meet of the sensitivity of product pro tability aims to limit payouts to policyholders to that admissibility criteria: and by using derivative to levels of lapse rates at the product supportable by the with-pro ts funds assets.
strategies to reduce downside risk.
Risk Management continued Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Colleague development Capital discipline 88 Accordingly, the insurance and other services providers.
Consumer lobby groups Operational Risk investment risks credit, liquidity and have also become more vociferous on their Operational risk exists in the normal market risks within the with-pro ts fund are behalf.
The Groups Customer Contract, conduct of business.
Examples of potential generally expected to be borne by the withwhich was approved by the Board in sources of operational risk include fraud, pro ts insurance and investment contracts November 2005, sets out principles for doing system reliability, human error, failure with DPF policyholders except in the extreme business and is HBOSs response to the of key suppliers, IT security, business scenarios.
The sensitivity of the Group result FSAs Treating Customers Fairly initiative.
The continuity, change management, operational to certain changes in key variables relating objective is to meet the requirements of our outsourcing and failure to comply with to insurance and investment contracts with shareholders through meeting the needs of legislation or regulation.
DPF within the with-pro ts fund have been our customers.
included in Note 24 to the Accounts on The Board has approved an Operational page 159.
HBOS is alert to the wider, cumulative Risk Policy that establishes the framework picture of regulatory change and utilises for managing operational risk.
The main Additionally, in order to demonstrate the centralised expertise in the area of regulatory components of the Operational Risk sensitivity of the with-pro ts fund to certain and legal compliance, speci cally to: Framework include risk and control key market variables, and consequently the Identify and assess the impact of, respond assessment, internal loss reporting, capture ability of the with-pro ts fund to meet its to, and where possible in uence, the of risk event information, key risk indicator policyholders expectations, the Group has direction of regulatory developments monitoring and evaluation of external events.
set out a sensitivity analysis of unallocated on behalf of HBOS: divisible surplus in Note 28 to the Accounts Lead the development and monitoring The Group Operational Risk Committee on page 164. of the application of speci c Group-wide is one of the four Executive Risk Committees policies and standards: and chaired by the Group Risk Director.
It is General Insurance Oversee the management, support and attended by senior executives from the For general insurance household contracts co-ordination of the liaison and interaction divisions and Group specialist areas.
The the most signi cant risks to claims with HBOS regulatory stakeholders across Committee considers the management of experience arise from weather events.
For all its international businesses.
issues and exposures, recommends the repayment insurance contracts the most appropriate capital requirement, approves signi cant risks arise from changes in The impact of regulatory change is reported policies and standards and provides economic conditions.
across all Executive Risk Committees with oversight of the operational risk communities.
speci c reference to the discipline affected The Group manages its exposure to and at Group level to Audit Committee A key enhancement to our infrastructure has insurance risk through a strategy which and the Board.
been to focus on the explicit risk management includes limitation of the risks underwritten.
of specialist areas that underpin the HBOS For all classes of insurance there are pricing Operational Risk Framework.
All specialist models that are regularly adjusted for functions have clear roles fide ned to help actual claims experience.
For household lead the identi cation, management and insurance the Group limits its exposure to measurement of risks relevant to their areas large weather events through the use of across the Group.
The Group Operational catastrophe reinsurance.
Risk function co-ordinates the specialist areas, designs and maintains Group-wide The majority of claims are reported and risk systems and undertakes the detailed settled within 12 months and generally there modelling required to assess risk exposure.
is limited reserving uncertainty for events before the valuation date.
Regulatory change The Financial Services Authority is the main For some renewable contracts household, regulator for HBOS, although the Groups travel and some repayment insurance, the international businesses in the USA, Australia longer term exposure to risk is managed and Ireland are subject to direct scrutiny in conjunction with the ability to reprice from the US Federal Reserve, APRA and The contracts to take account of changes in Financial Regulator respectively.
the level of risk within those contracts.
Set out in Note 26 to the Accounts on page HBOS understands that consumers have 163 are the Groups general insurance claim an ever increasing choice of supplier and provisions by policy type.
product and are more demanding of financial 89
