HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk Regulation and supervision Page Regulation and supervision 1 Unaudited Regulation and supervision....................... 165 1 Risk management...................................... 170 With listings of its ordinary shares in London, Hong Credit risk................................................... 171 Kong, New York, Paris and Bermuda, HSBC 2 Holdings complies with the relevant requirements Credit risk management........................ 171 3 for listing and trading on each of these exchanges.
In Credit exposure..................................... 176 the UK, these are the Listing Rules of the Financial 3 Credit quality......................................... 192 Services Authority FSA : in Hong Kong, The 3 Impairment allowances and charges...... 197 Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The 2 HSBC Holdings..................................... 211 Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited: in the US, 1 Risk elements in the loan portfolio........ 211 where the shares are traded in the form of ADSs, HSBC Holdings shares are registered with the US Liquidity and funding management............ 213 2 Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a Policies and procedures......................... 213 consequence of its US listing, HSBC Holdings is 3 Primary sources of funding................... 213 also subject to the reporting and other requirements 2 HSBC Holdings..................................... 215 of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Market risk management............................ 216 Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and 3 Value at risk.......................................... 216 the New York Stock Exchanges Listed Company 2 Manual, in each case as applied to foreign private Trading portfolios.................................. 218 2 issuers.
In France and Bermuda, HSBC Holdings is Non-trading portfolios........................... 219 subject to the listing rules of Euronext, Paris and the 1 Sensitivity of net interest income........... 221 Bermuda Stock Exchange applicable to companies 1 Structural foreign exchange exposures.
3 HSBC Holdings..................................... 223 A statement of HSBCs compliance with the 1 Residual value risk management............... 224 code provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate 1 Operational risk management................... 225 Governance issued by the Financial Reporting 1 Legal litigation risk............................... 225 Council and with the Code on Corporate Governance 1 Pension risk............................................... 226 Practices in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the 1 Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Reputational risk management.................. 227 1 Hong Kong Limited is set out in the Report of the Sustainability risk management................ 227 Directors: Governance on page 248.
Risk management of insurance 2 operations.............................................. 228 HSBCs operations throughout the world are 2 regulated and supervised by approximately Life insurance business........................... 228 2 510 different central banks and regulatory authorities Non-life insurance business.................... 228 in those jurisdictions in which HSBC has offices, 2 Insurance risk........................................ 229 branches or subsidiaries.
These authorities impose a 2 Financial risks....................................... 233 variety of requirements and controls designed to 2 Market risk............................................. 235 improve financial stability and the transparency of 2 Credit risk............................................... 237 financial markets and their contribution to economic 2 growth.
These regulations and controls cover, inter Liquidity risk......................................... 240 alia, capital adequacy, depositor protection, market Present value of in-force long-term 2 liquidity, governance standards, customer protection insurance business............................. 241 for example, fair lending practices, product design, Capital management and allocation............ 243 and marketing and documentation standards, and 2 Capital management.............................. 243 social responsibility obligations for example, anti- 3 Capital measurement and allocation..... 243 money laundering and anti-terrorist financing Risk-weighted assets by principal measures.
In addition, a number of countries in 1 subsidiary............................................ 247 which HSBC operates impose rules that affect, or place limitations on, foreign or foreign-owned or 1 Unaudited.
controlled banks and financial institutions.
include restrictions on the opening of local offices, 3 Audited where indicated.
branches or subsidiaries and the types of banking and non-banking activities that may be conducted by those local offices, branches or subsidiaries: restrictions on the acquisition of local banks or 165 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Regulation and supervision regulations requiring a specified percentage of local calculated on two bases.
First, firms must calculate ownership: and restrictions on investment and other their liabilities on a prudent basis and add a statutory financial flows entering or leaving the country.
Secondly, firms must supervisory and regulatory regimes of the countries calculate their liabilities on a realistic basis then add where HSBC operates will determine to some degree to this their own calculation of risk-based capital.
HSBCs ability to expand into new markets, the The sum of realistic reserves and risk-based capital services and products that HSBC will be able to Pillar 2 is agreed with the FSA.
Insurers are offer in those markets and how HSBC structures required to maintain capital equal to the higher of specific operations.
The FSA has the right to object, on prudential grounds, to persons who hold, or intend to The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated hold, 10 per cent or more of the voting power of a basis.
In addition, each operating bank, finance financial institution.
company or insurance operation within HSBC is regulated by local supervisors.
The primary The regulatory framework of the UK financial regulatory authorities are those in the UK, Hong services system has traditionally been based on Kong and the US, the Groups principal areas of co-operation between the FSA and authorised operation.
The FSA monitors authorised institutions through ongoing supervision and the In June 2004, the Basel Committee on Banking review of routine and ad hoc reports relating to Supervision introduced a new capital adequacy financial and prudential matters.
The FSA may framework to replace the 1988 Basel Capital Accord periodically obtain independent reports, usually from in the form of a final Accord commonly known as the auditors of the authorised institution, as to the Basel II.
Details of the EUs implementation of adequacy of internal control procedures and systems Basel II and how this will affect HSBC are set out as well as procedures and systems governing records on page 244. and accounting.
The FSA meets regularly with HSBCs senior executives to discuss HSBCs UK regulation and supervision adherence to the FSAs prudential guidelines.
They UK banking and financial services institutions are also regularly discuss fundamental matters relating subject to multiple regulations.
The primary UK to HSBCs business in the UK and internationally, statute is the Financial Services and Markets Act including areas such as strategic and operating plans, 2000 FSMA.
Other UK primary and secondary risk control, loan portfolio composition and banking legislation is derived from EU directives organisational changes, including succession relating to banking, securities, insurance investment planning.
and sales of personal financial services.
UK depositors and investors are covered by the The FSA is responsible for authorising and Financial Services Compensation Scheme, which supervising UK financial services institutions and deals with deposits with authorised institutions in the regulates all HSBCs businesses in the UK which UK, investment business and contracts of insurance.
require authorisation under the FSMA.
These Institutions authorised to accept deposits and include retail banking, life and general insurance, conduct investment business are required to pensions, mortgages, custody and branch sharecontribute to the funding of the scheme.
In the event dealing businesses, and treasury and capital markets of the insolvency of an authorised institution, activity.
HSBC Bank is HSBCs principal authorised depositors are entitled to receive 100 per cent of the institution in the UK.
first 2,000 US$3,927 of a claim plus 90 per cent of any further amount up to 33,000 US$64,794 FSA rules establish the minimum criteria for the maximum amount payable being 31,700 authorisation for banks and financial services US$62,241.
Payments under the scheme in respect businesses in the UK.
They also set out reporting of investment business compensation are limited to and, as applicable, consent requirements with 100 per cent of the first 30,000 US$58,903 of a regard to large individual exposures and large claim plus 90 per cent of any further amount up to exposures to related borrowers.
In its capacity as 20,000 US$39,269 the maximum amount supervisor of HSBC on a consolidated basis, the payable being 48,000 US$94,246.
In addition, FSA receives information on the capital adequacy of, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme has and sets requirements for, HSBC as a whole.
Further been extended to cover mortgage advice and details on capital measurement are included in arranging, certain long term and general insurance Capital Management on pages 243 to 247.
The products, and the provision of general advice and FSAs approach to capital requirements for UK insurers is to require minimum capital to be 166 arranging services.
Differing levels of compensation auditors, upon request, to report on those systems limits apply to each of these additional areas.
and other matters such as the accuracy of information provided to the HKMA.
In addition, the The EU Savings Directive took effect on 1 July HKMA may from time to time conduct tripartite 2005.
Under the directive, each member state other discussions with banks and their external auditors.
than Austria, Belgium, and Luxembourg is required to provide the tax authorities of each other member The HKMA, which may deny the acquisition of state with details of payments of interest or other voting power of over 10 per cent in a bank, and may similar income paid by a person within its attach conditions to its approval thereof, can jurisdiction to individuals resident in such other effectively control changes in the ownership and member state.
For a transitional period beginning on control of Hong Kong-incorporated financial the same date, Austria, Belgium, and Luxembourg institutions.
In addition, the HKMA has the power to have imposed a withholding tax on such income.
divest controlling interests in a bank from persons if The withholding tax rate is 15 per cent, increasing to they are no longer deemed to be fit and proper, if 20 per cent from 2008 and 35 per cent from 2011. they may otherwise threaten the interests of Subject to future conditions being met, Austria, depositors or potential depositors, or if they have Belgium, and Luxembourg may cease to apply the contravened any conditions specified by the HKMA.
withholding tax and instead comply with the The HKMA may revoke authorisation in the event of automatic exchange of information rules applicable an institutions non-compliance with the provisions to the other member states.
These future conditions of the Banking Ordinance.
These provisions require, will depend on other key financial centres among other things, the furnishing of accurate Switzerland, Liechtenstein, San Marino, Andorra and reports.
the US not exchanging information.
These The Banking Ordinance requires that banks financial centres and several other European submit to the HKMA certain returns and other countries and related offshore territories have also information and establishes certain minimum entered into similar agreements to the Savings standards and ratios relating to capital adequacy Directive with the EU states.
see below, liquidity, capitalisation, limitations on shareholdings, exposure to any one customer, Hong Kong regulation and supervision unsecured advances to persons affiliated with the Banking in Hong Kong is subject to the provisions bank and holdings of interests in land, with which of the Banking Ordinance the Banking banks must comply.
Ordinance, and to the powers, functions and duties Hong Kong fully implemented the capital ascribed by the Banking Ordinance to the Hong adequacy standards established by the 1988 Basel Kong Monetary Authority the HKMA.
The Banking Ordinance currently principal function of the HKMA is to promote the provides that banks incorporated in Hong Kong general stability and effective working of the maintain a capital adequacy ratio calculated as the banking system in Hong Kong.
The HKMA is ratio, expressed as a percentage, of the banks capital responsible for supervising compliance with the base to its risk-weighted exposure of at least 8 per provisions of the Banking Ordinance.
For banks with subsidiaries, the HKMA is Ordinance gives power to the Chief Executive of empowered to require that the ratio be calculated on Hong Kong to give directions to the HKMA and the a consolidated basis, or on both consolidated and Financial Secretary with respect to the exercise of unconsolidated bases.
If circumstances require, the their respective functions under the Banking HKMA is empowered to increase the minimum Ordinance.
capital adequacy ratio to up to 16 per cent, after The HKMA has responsibility for authorising consultation with the bank.
banks, and has discretion to attach conditions to its A deposit protection scheme came into force authorisation.
The HKMA requires that banks or during 2006 pursuant to the Deposit Protection their holding companies file regular prudential Scheme Ordinance.
The Scheme only covers returns, and holds regular discussions with the standard deposits held with licensed banks in Hong management of the banks to review their operations.
Kong subject to a maximum of HK$100,000 The HKMA may also conduct on site examinations US$12,860.
of banks, and in the case of banks incorporated in Hong Kong, of any local and overseas branches and The marketing of, dealing in and provision of subsidiaries.
The HKMA requires all authorised advice and asset management services in relation to institutions to have adequate systems of internal securities in Hong Kong are subject to the provisions control and requires the institutions external of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong 167 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Regulation and supervision Kong the Securities and Futures Ordinance.
insurance, it expanded to become a full-service Entities engaging in activities regulated by the commercial bank.
HSBC also owns HSBC Bank Securities and Futures Ordinance are required to be Nevada, N. A. HSBC Bank Nevada, a nationally licensed.
The HKMA is the primary regulator for chartered bank limited to credit card activities which banks involved in the securities business, while the is also a member of the Federal Reserve System.
Securities and Futures Commission is the regulator These four banks are subject to regulation, for non-banking entities.
supervision and examination by the OCC and, as their deposits are insured by the FDIC, they are In Hong Kong, insurance business is regulated subject to relevant FDIC regulation.
Both HSBC and under the Insurance Companies Ordinance and by HNAH are registered as financial holding companies the Insurance Authority of Hong Kong IA.
The IA FHCs under the BHCA, enabling them to offer a is responsible for the licensing of insurers and broad range of financial products and services insurance brokers, although insurance business can through their subsidiaries.
HSBCs and HNAHs also be licensed by the Confederation of Insurance ability to engage in expanded financial activities as Brokers the CIB.
Separately, insurance agents are FHCs depend upon HSBC and HNAH continuing to licensed by the Hong Kong Federation of Insurers meet certain criteria set forth in the BHCA, the HKFI.
Both the HKFI and the CIB have including requirements that their US depository enacted Codes of Conduct for insurance agents and institution subsidiaries, HSBC Bank USA, HSBC brokers respectively and can impose sanctions for Bank Maryland, HSBC Bank Nevada and HSBC misbehaviour or breach.
Bank Delaware, be well capitalised and well HSBC Insurance Asia-Pacific Holdings managed, and that such institutions have achieved at Limited INAH is licensed by the IA as an insurer.
least a satisfactory record in meeting community The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, credit needs during their most recent examinations which is authorised by the HKFI, acts as an agent for pursuant to the Community Reinvestment Act.
These INAH, and HSBC Insurance Brokers Asia-Pacific requirements also apply to Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Limited act as insurance brokers licensed by the Bank, N. A. in which HSBC and HNAH have a 20 CIB.
per cent voting interest in equity capital and a 40 per cent economic interest.
Each of these depository US regulation and supervision institutions achieved at least the required rating during their most recent examinations.
At HSBC is subject to extensive federal and state 31 December 2006, HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Bank supervision and regulation in the US.
Banking laws Maryland, HSBC Bank Nevada, HSBC Bank and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board, the Delaware and Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A.
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCC were each well capitalised and well managed under and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Reserve Board regulations.
FDIC govern many aspects of HSBCs US business.
In general under the BHCA, an FHC would be required, upon notice by the Federal Reserve Board, HSBC and its US operations are subject to to enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve supervision, regulation and examination by the Board to correct any failure to comply with the Federal Reserve Board because HSBC is a bank requirements to maintain FHC status.
Until such holding company under the US Bank Holding deficiencies are corrected, the Federal Reserve Company Act of 1956 the BHCA.
HSBC and Board may impose limitations on the US activities of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HNAH, an FHC and depository institutions under its control.
formed to hold all of its North American operations, If such deficiencies are not corrected, the Federal are bank holding companies by virtue of their Reserve Board may require an FHC to divest its ownership and control of HSBC Bank USA, N. A. control of any subsidiary depository institution or to HSBC Bank USA, HSBC National Bank USA desist from certain financial activities in the US.
HSBC Bank Maryland, and HSBC Trust Company Delaware, N. A. HSBC Bank HSBC and HNAH are generally prohibited Delaware.
These three banks are nationally under the BHCA from acquiring, directly or chartered commercial banks and members of the indirectly, ownership or control of more than 5 per Federal Reserve System.
HSBC Bank Maryland is a cent of any class of voting shares of, or substantially new bank that opened for business on 30 October all the assets of, or exercising control over, any US 2006.
HSBC Bank Delaware opened on 1 July 2005, bank, bank holding company or many other types of as an institution limited to trust activities.
On 24 depository institutions and or their holding November 2006, having received federal deposit companies without the prior approval of the Federal 168 Reserve Board and potentially other US banking powers to freeze or confiscate assets and increases regulatory agencies.
the available penalties that may be assessed against financial institutions for failure to comply with The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 obligations imposed on such institutions to detect, GLBA and the regulations issued thereunder prevent and report money laundering and terrorist contain a number of other provisions that could financing.
Pursuant to the Patriot Act, final affect HSBCs operations and the operations of all regulations are in effect which impose anti-money financial institutions.
One such provision relates to laundering compliance obligations on financial the financial privacy of consumers.
In addition, the institutions a term which, for this purpose, includes so-called push-out provisions of GLBA narrow the insured US depository institutions, US branches and exclusion of banks including HSBC Bank USA, agencies of foreign banks, US broker-dealers and N. A. from the definitions of broker and dealer numerous other entities.
Many of the anti-money under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended laundering compliance requirements imposed by the Exchange Act.
The SEC has granted a series of Patriot Act and these implementing regulations are temporary exemptions to delay the required generally consistent with the anti-money laundering implementation of these push-out provisions.
The compliance obligations existing for banks prior to narrowed dealer definition took effect in September the Patriot Act.
These include requirements to adopt 2003, and the narrowed broker definition is and implement an anti-money laundering currently expected to take effect no earlier than July programme, report suspicious transactions and 2007.
As a result, it is likely that certain securities implement due diligence procedures for certain activities currently conducted by HSBC Bank USA correspondent and private banking accounts.
Certain will need to be restructured or transferred to one or other specific requirements of the Patriot Act were more US-registered broker-dealer affiliates.
The passage of the The US is party to the 1988 Basel Capital Patriot Act and other recent events have resulted in Accord, and US banking regulatory authorities have heightened scrutiny of the Bank Secrecy Act and adopted risk-based capital requirements for US anti-money laundering compliance by federal and banks and bank holding companies that are generally state bank examiners.
In addition, US If HSBC were to fail to maintain and implement regulatory authorities have adopted leverage capital adequate programmes to combat money laundering requirements that generally require US banks and and terrorist financing and to comply with economic bank holding companies to maintain a minimum sanctions, or was found to be in breach of relevant amount of capital in relation to their balance sheet laws and regulations, including by failing to observe assets measured on a non-risk-weighted basis.
economic sanctions, serious legal and reputational The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation consequences for the Group could arise.
Improvement Act of 1991 provides for extensive HSBC takes its obligations to prevent money regulation of insured depository institutions such as laundering and terrorist financing very seriously.
HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Bank Maryland, HSBC HSBC has policies, procedures and training intended Bank Delaware, HSBC Bank Nevada and Wells to ensure that its employees know and understand Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A., including requiring HSBCs criteria for when a client relationship or federal banking regulators to take prompt corrective business should be evaluated as higher risk.
As part action with respect to FDIC-insured banks that do of its continuing evaluation of risk, HSBC monitors not meet minimum capital requirements.
activities relating to Cuba, Iran, Myanmar, North HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Bank Maryland, Korea, Sudan and Syria.
HSBCs business activities HSBC Bank Delaware, HSBC Bank Nevada and include correspondent banking services to banks Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. like other located in some of these countries and private FDIC-insured banks, may be required to pay banking services for nationals of, and clients assessments to the FDIC for deposit insurance under domiciled in, some of the above countries.
The the FDICs Bank Insurance Fund.
Under the FDICs Group has a small representative office in Tehran, risk-based system for setting deposit insurance Iran.
assessments, an institutions assessments vary The US State Department has designated such according to the level of capital an institution holds, countries as state sponsors of terrorism, and US law its deposit levels and other factors.
generally prohibits US persons from doing business The USA Patriot Act Patriot Act imposes with such countries.
HSBC is aware of initiatives by significant record keeping and customer identity governmental entities and institutions in the US to requirements, expands the US federal governments adopt rules, regulations or policies prohibiting 169 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Regulation and supervision Risk management Credit risk transactions with or investments in entities doing consumer finance lending subsidiary and or its business with such countries.
HSBC does not believe control person to be liable for damages and its business activities with counterparties in, or penalties.
directly relating to, such countries are material to its HSBCs US credit insurance operations are business, and such activities represented a very small subject to regulatory supervision under the laws of part of total assets as of 31 December 2006 and total the states in which they operate.
Regulations vary revenues for the year ended 31 December 2006. from state to state but generally cover licensing of HSBCs US insurance agency and underwriting insurance companies: premiums and loss rates: operations are subject to regulatory supervision dividend restrictions: types of insurance that may be under the laws of the states in which they operate.
sold: permissible investments: policy reserve Insurance laws and regulations vary from state to requirements: and insurance marketing practices.
state but generally require forms and rates to be filed Certain US source payments to foreign persons with, and approved by, the state insurance may be subject to US withholding tax unless the departments, and cover licensing of insurance foreign person is a qualified intermediary.
A companies: corporate governance: premiums and qualified intermediary is a financial intermediary loss rates: dividend restrictions: types of insurance which is qualified under the US Internal Revenue that may be sold: underwriting processes: Code of 1986 and has completed the Qualified permissible investments: reserve requirements: and Intermediary Withholding Agreement with the insurance advertising and marketing practices.
Various HSBC operations HSBC US insurance subsidiary undergoes periodic outside the US are qualified intermediaries.
market conduct and financial examinations by the relevant state insurance departments, and HSBCs Risk management insurance agencies and agents are subject to state Unaudited licensing and registration requirements.
Additionally, with respect to credit insurance, All HSBCs activities involve analysis, evaluation, because it is sold in connection with a loan, state acceptance and management of some degree of risk loan laws often contain requirements related to or combination of risks.
The most important types of offering, cancelling and refunding credit insurance.
risk are credit risk which includes country and Although insurance is not generally regulated by the cross-border risk, liquidity risk, market risk, federal government, certain federal regulations residual value risk, reputational risk, operational related to lending disclosures apply to the sale and risk, pension risk, insurance risk and sustainability cancellation of credit insurance.
Market risk includes foreign exchange, interest rate and equity price risk.
HSBCs US consumer finance operations are subject to extensive state-by-state regulation in the HSBCs risk management policies are designed US, and to laws relating to consumer protection to identify and analyse these risks, to set appropriate both in general, and in respect of sub-prime risk limits and controls, and to monitor the risks and lending operations, which have been subject to adherence to limits by means of reliable and up-toenhanced regulatory scrutiny : discrimination in date administrative and information systems.
HSBC extending credit: use of credit reports: privacy regularly reviews its risk management policies and matters: disclosure of credit terms: and correction of systems to reflect changes in markets, products and billing errors.
They also are subject to regulations emerging best practice.
Individual responsibility and and legislation that limit operations in certain accountability, instilled through training, are designed jurisdictions.
For example, limitations may be placed to deliver a disciplined, conservative and constructive on the amount of interest or fees that a loan may culture of risk management and control.
bear, the amount that may be borrowed, the types of The Group Management Board formulates high actions that may be taken to collect or foreclose level Group risk management policy under authority upon delinquent loans or the information about a delegated by the Board of Directors.
A separately customer that may be shared.
HSBCs US consumer convened Risk Management Meeting of the Group finance branch lending offices are generally licensed Management Board monitors risk and receives in those jurisdictions in which they operate.
Such reports which allow it to review the effectiveness of licences have limited terms but are renewable, and HSBCs risk management policies.
Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may limit the ability The management of all risks that are significant of these licensed lenders to collect or enforce loan to HSBC is discussed below.
Given the distinct agreements made with consumers and may cause the characteristics of the Groups insurance businesses 170 the management of their credit, liquidity and market companies in excess of designated limits, prior risk along with insurance risk, is discussed to the facilities being committed to customers or separately in Risk management of insurance transactions being undertaken.
companies may not confirm credit approval without this concurrence.
Credit risk Monitoring the performance and management of retail portfolios across the Group and reviewing Credit risk management Audited whether any adverse trends are being managed appropriately by Group businesses.
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a Controlling centrally exposures to sovereign contract.
It arises principally from lending, trade entities, banks and other financial institutions.
finance, treasury and leasing business.
Credit risk HSBCs credit and settlement risk limits to also arises when issuers of debt securities are counterparties in these sectors are approved downgraded and, as a result, the value of HSBCs centrally and globally managed by a dedicated holdings of assets falls.
HSBC has standards, unit within Group Credit and Risk, to optimise policies and procedures dedicated to controlling and the use of credit availability and avoid excessive monitoring risk from all such activities.
Within Group Head Office, a specialised Managing exposures to debt securities by function, Group Credit and Risk, is mandated to establishing controls in respect of the liquidity provide high-level centralised management of credit of securities held for trading purposes and risk for HSBC worldwide.
Group Credit and Risk is setting issuer limits for securities not held for headed by a Group General Manager who reports to trading.
Separate portfolio limits are established the Group Chief Executive.
Its responsibilities for asset-backed securities and similar include the following: instruments.
Formulating Group credit policies and Maintaining HSBCs policy on large credit monitoring compliance with them.
These exposures, controlling these to ensure that policies are embodied in the HSBC standards exposure to any individual counterparty or with which all HSBCs operating companies are group of closely related counterparties, or to required to comply, and consistent with which individual geographic areas or industry sectors, they must formulate and record in instruction does not become excessive in relation to the manuals their detailed credit policies and Groups capital base and is kept within internal procedures.
The approach is designed to be more conservative than internationally Issuing policy guidelines to HSBCs operating accepted regulatory standards.
A dedicated unit companies on the Groups attitude toward, and within Group Credit and Risk manages this appetite for, credit risk exposure to specified process, and also monitors HSBCs intra-Group market sectors, activities and banking products.
exposures to ensure that they are maintained Each HSBC operating company and major within regulatory limits.
The FSA has business unit is required to base its own lending announced changes to the regime for managing guidelines on HSBCs standards, to regularly intra-Group exposures, which will operate by update them and disseminate them to its credit reference to a UK Integrated Group and a and lending executives.
Group Credit and Risk Wider Integrated Group.
HSBC is developing controls HSBCs exposures to the automotive plans to adopt the new regime in accordance and hedge fund sectors, and closely monitors with the FSAs transition timetable.
exposures to others such as real estate and securities houses.
When necessary, restrictions Controlling cross-border exposures, through the are imposed on new business or exposures in imposition of country limits with sub-limits by HSBCs operating companies are capped.
maturity and type of business.
Country limits are determined by taking into account economic Undertaking an independent review and and political factors, and applying local business objective assessment of risk.
Transactions with countries deemed Risk assesses all commercial non-bank credit to be high risk are considered case by case.
facilities and exposures including those embedded in derivatives that are originated, Maintaining and developing HSBCs risk renewed or reviewed by HSBCs operating ratings in order to categorise exposures 171 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Credit risk management meaningfully and facilitate focused management causes of unexpected loss and lessons to be of the attendant risks.
rating framework has consisted of a minimum of Managing and directing credit risk management seven grades, taking into account the risk of systems initiatives.
HSBC has a centralised default and the availability of security or other database of large corporate, sovereign and bank credit risk mitigation.
A more sophisticated riskfacilities and is constructing a database covering rating framework for banks and other customers, all the Groups credit assets.
A systems-based based on default probability and loss estimates credit application process for bank lending is and comprising up to 22 categories, is now used operational throughout the Group and an in all major business units for the credit electronic corporate credit application system is assessment of individually significant deployed in all of the Groups major businesses.
It is increasingly being used for credit portfolio reporting at subsidiary level: Providing advice and guidance to HSBCs work continues on integrating the framework operating companies in order to promote best into reporting structures to enable Board and practice throughout the Group on credit-related external reporting on the new basis in 2008. matters such as: This approach allows a more granular analysis regulatory developments: of risk and trends.
Rating methodology is based upon a wide range of financial analytics together implementing environmental and social with market data-based tools which are core responsibility policies: inputs to the assessment of counterparty risk.
risk modelling: Although automated risk-rating processes are increasingly in use, for the larger facilities collective impairment allowances: ultimate responsibility for setting risk grades new products: rests in each case with the final approving executive.
training courses: and Reviewing the performance and effectiveness of credit risk reporting.
operating companies credit approval processes.
Acting on behalf of HSBC Holdings as the Regular reports are provided to Group Credit primary interface, for credit-related issues, with and Risk on the credit quality of local portfolios external parties including the Bank of England, and corrective action is taken where necessary.
the FSA, rating agencies, corporate analysts, Reporting to senior executives on aspects of the trade associations and counterparts in the HSBC credit risk portfolio.
These executives, as worlds major banks and non-bank financial well as the Risk Management Meeting, the institutions.
Group Audit Committee and the Board of Each operating company is required to Directors of HSBC Holdings, receive a variety implement credit policies, procedures and lending of regular reports covering: guidelines which conform to HSBC Group risk concentrations and exposure to market standards, with credit approval authorities delegated sectors: from the Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings to the relevant Chief Executive Officer.
In each major large customer group exposures: subsidiary, management includes a Chief Credit retail portfolio performance on a regional Officer or Chief Risk Officer who reports to the local basis: Chief Executive Officer on credit-related issues and has a functional reporting line to the Group General specific segments of the portfolio, e. g. real Manager, Group Credit and Risk.
Each operating estate, banks, and the automotive and hedge company is responsible for the quality and fund sectors, as well as ad hoc reviews: performance of its credit portfolios and for emerging market debt and impairment monitoring and controlling all credit risks in its allowances: portfolios, including those subject to central approval by Group Credit and Risk.
This includes large impaired accounts and impairment managing its own risk concentrations by market allowances: sector, geography and product.
Local systems are in country limits, cross-border exposures and place throughout the Group to enable operating impairment allowances: and companies to control and monitor exposures by customer and retail product segments.
172 Special attention is paid to problem loans.
When over business assets such as premises, stock and appropriate, specialist units are established by debtors: HSBCs operating companies to provide customers in the commercial real estate sector, charges with support in order to help them avoid default over the properties being financed: wherever possible.
in the financial sector, charges over financial Periodic risk-based audits of operating instruments such as debt securities and equities companies credit processes and portfolios are in support of trading facilities: and undertaken by HSBCs Internal Audit function.
Audits include a consideration of the completeness credit derivatives are also used to manage credit and adequacy of credit manuals and lending risk in the Groups loan portfolio, but are not guidelines: an in-depth analysis of a representative significant.
sample of accounts: an overview of homogeneous portfolios of similar assets to assess the quality of Other financial assets the loan book and other exposures: a consideration Collateral held as security for financial assets other of any oversight or review work performed by Credit than loans and advances is determined by the nature and Risk functions: review of model validation of the instrument.
Debt securities, treasury and other procedures: review of management objectives and a eligible bills are generally unsecured with the check that Group and local standards and policies are exception of asset backed securities and similar adhered to in the granting and management of credit instruments, which are secured by pools of financial facilities.
Individual accounts are reviewed on a assets.
sample basis to ensure that risk grades are appropriate, that credit and collection procedures The ISDA Master Agreement is HSBCs have been properly followed and that, when an preferred agreement for documenting derivatives account or portfolio evidences deterioration, activity.
It provides the contractual framework impairment allowances are raised in accordance with within which dealing activity across a full range of the Groups established processes.
Internal Audit over-the-counter products is conducted, and discusses with management risk ratings it considers contractually binds both parties to apply close-out to be inappropriate: its subsequent recommendations netting across all outstanding transactions covered for revised grades must then normally be adopted.
by an agreement if either party defaults or other preagreed termination events occur.
It is common, and Collateral and other credit enhancements HSBCs preferred practice, for the parties to execute Audited a Credit Support Annex CSA in conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement.
Under a CSA, Loans and advances collateral is passed between the parties to mitigate It is HSBCs policy to establish that loans are within the market-contingent counterparty risk inherent in the customers capacity to repay, rather than to rely the outstanding positions.
Depending on the Settlement risk arises in any situation where a customers standing and the type of product, payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the facilities may be unsecured.
Nevertheless, collateral expectation of a corresponding receipt in cash, can be an important mitigant of credit risk.
Daily settlement limits are When appropriate, operating companies are established for each counterparty to cover the required to implement guidelines on the acceptability aggregate of all settlement risk arising from HSBCs of specific classes of collateral or credit risk investment banking and markets transactions on any mitigation, and determine suitable valuation single day.
Settlement risk on many transactions, parameters.
Such parameters are expected to be particularly those involving securities and equities, is conservative, reviewed regularly and supported by substantially mitigated when effected via assured empirical evidence.
Security structures and legal payment systems, or on a delivery versus payment covenants are required to be subject to regular basis.
review to ensure that they continue to fulfil their intended purpose and remain in line with local Credit quality of loans and advances market practice.
The principal collateral types are as Audited follows: HSBCs credit risk rating processes are designed to in the personal sector, mortgages over highlight exposures which require closer residential properties: management attention because of their greater probability of default and potential loss.
Risk ratings in the commercial and industrial sector, charges 173 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Credit risk management are reviewed regularly and amendments, where conducting a detailed review of the loan portfolio, necessary, are implemented promptly.
comparing performance and delinquency statistics with historical trends and assessing the impact of The credit quality of unimpaired loans is current economic conditions.
assessed by reference to the Groups standard credit rating system.
Two types of impairment allowance are in place: individually assessed and collectively assessed.
Grades 1 and 2 include corporate facilities These are discussed below.
demonstrating financial condition, risk factors and capacity to repay that are good to excellent, Individually assessed impairment allowances residential mortgages with low to moderate loan to value ratios and other retail accounts which are These are determined by evaluating the exposure to maintained within product guidelines.
loss, case by case, on all individually significant accounts and all other accounts that do not qualify Grade 3 represents satisfactory risk, and for the collective assessment approach outlined includes corporate facilities that require closer below.
In determining allowances on individually monitoring, mortgages with higher loan to value assessed accounts, the following factors are ratios, credit card exposures and other retail considered: exposures which operate outside product guidelines without being impaired.
HSBCs aggregate exposure to the customer: Grades 4 and 5 include facilities that require the viability of the customers business model varying degrees of special attention and all retail and their capacity to trade successfully out of exposures that are progressively between 30 and 90 financial difficulties, generating sufficient cash days past due.
flow to service debt obligations: Grades 6 and 7 relate to impaired loans and the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make advances.
payments in, the currency of the loan if not denominated in local currency: Impaired loans and advances the amount and timing of expected receipts and For individually assessed accounts, loans are treated recoveries: as impaired as soon as there is objective evidence the extent of other creditors commitments that an impairment loss has been incurred.
The ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and criteria used by HSBC to determine that there is such the likelihood of other creditors continuing to objective evidence include, inter alia: support the company: known cash flow difficulties experienced by the the complexity of determining the aggregate borrower: amount and ranking of all creditor claims and overdue contractual payments of either principal the extent to which legal and insurance or interest: uncertainties are evident: breach of loan covenants or conditions: the realisable value of security or other credit mitigants and likelihood of successful the probability that the borrower will enter repossession: bankruptcy or other financial realisation: and the likely dividend available on liquidation or a significant downgrading in credit rating by an bankruptcy: external credit rating agency.
the likely deduction of any costs involved in For accounts in portfolios of homogeneous recovering amounts outstanding, and loans, impairment allowances are calculated on a collective basis, as set out below.
when available, the secondary market price of the debt.
Impairment assessment Group policy requires the level of impairment Audited allowances on individual facilities that are above It is HSBCs policy that each operating company materiality thresholds to be reviewed at least semimake allowance for impaired loans promptly and on annually, and more regularly when individual a consistent basis.
The review normally Management regularly evaluates the adequacy of the established allowances for impaired loans by 174 encompasses collateral held including reeach reporting entity is documented and reviewed by confirmation of its enforceability and an assessment senior Group Credit and Risk management to ensure of actual and anticipated receipts.
For significant conformity with Group policy.
commercial and corporate debts, specialised loan work-out teams with experience in insolvency and Homogeneous groups of loans specific market sectors are used to assess likely Two methodologies are used to calculate impairment losses on significant individual exposures.
allowances where large numbers of relatively lowIndividually assessed impairment allowances are value assets are managed using a portfolio approach, only reversed when the Group has reasonable and typically: objective evidence of a reduction in the established loss estimate.
low-value, homogeneous small business accounts in certain countries or territories: Collectively assessed impairment allowances residential mortgages that have not been Impairment is assessed on a collective basis in two individually assessed: circumstances: credit cards and other unsecured consumer to cover losses which have been incurred but lending products: and have not yet been identified on loans subject to motor vehicle financing.
individual assessment: and When appropriate empirical information is for homogeneous groups of loans that are not available, the Group uses roll rate methodology.
employs a statistical analysis of historical trends of default and the amount of consequential loss, based Incurred but not yet identified impairment on the delinquency of accounts within a portfolio of Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of homogeneous accounts.
Other historical data and impairment has been specifically identified on an current economic conditions are also evaluated when individual basis are grouped together according to calculating the appropriate level of impairment their credit risk characteristics.
A collective loan loss allowance required to cover inherent loss.
In certain allowance is calculated to reflect impairment losses highly developed markets, models also take into incurred at the balance sheet date which will only be account behavioural and account management trends individually identified in the future.
revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics.
The collective impairment allowance is determined having taken into account: When the portfolio size is small, or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to historical loss experience in portfolios of similar adopt a roll rate methodology, a formulaic approach credit risk characteristics for example, by is used which allocates progressively higher industry sector, risk rating or product segment : percentage loss rates the longer a customers loan is the estimated period between impairment overdue.
Loss rates reflect the discounted expected occurring and the loss being identified and future cash flows for a portfolio.
evidenced by the establishment of an In normal circumstances, historical experience appropriate allowance against the individual is the most objective and relevant information from loan: and which to assess inherent loss within each portfolio.
managements experienced judgement as to In circumstances where historical loss experience whether current economic and credit conditions provides less relevant information about the inherent are such that the actual level of inherent losses is loss in a given portfolio at the balance sheet date likely to be greater or less than that suggested by for example, where there have been changes in historical experience.
economic conditions or regulations management considers the more recent trends in the portfolio risk The period between a loss occurring and its factors which may not be adequately reflected in its identification is estimated by local management for statistical models and, subject to guidance from each identified portfolio.
In general, the periods used Group Credit and Risk, adjusts impairment vary between four and twelve months although, in allowances accordingly.
exceptional cases, longer periods are warranted.
Roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of The basis on which impairment allowances for future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against incurred but not yet identified losses is established in actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
175 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Credit risk management Exposure Collectively assessed allowances are generally Impairment allowances are applied to all calculated monthly and charges for new allowances, qualifying exposures within these countries unless or reversals of existing allowances, are determined these exposures and the inherent risks are: for each separately identified portfolio.
performing, trade-related and of less than one years maturity: Impairment allowances mitigated by acceptable security cover which is, When impairment losses occur, HSBC reduces the other than in exceptional cases, held outside the carrying amount of loans and advances and held-tocountry concerned: maturity financial investments through the use of an allowance account.
When impairment of availablein the form of securities held for trading for-sale financial assets occurs, the carrying amount purposes for which a liquid and active market of the asset is reduced directly.
exists, and which are measured at fair value daily: Loan write-offs performing facilities with principal excluding Loans, and the related impairment allowances, are security of US$1 million or below: or normally written off, either partially or in full, in the performing facilities with maturity dates shorter case of that portion of the loan amount not covered than three months.
by the value of security, when there is no realistic prospect of further recovery: and in the case of Credit exposure secured balances, after proceeds from the realisation of security have been received.
Unsecured consumer Maximum exposure to credit risk Audited facilities are normally written off between 150 and 210 days overdue.
In HSBC Finance, this period is Factors which had a direct impact on changes in generally extended to 300 days overdue 240 days HSBCs maximum exposure to credit risk during for real estate secured products.
2006 related to the curtailment of growth in mortgage lending in the US in response to Instances of write-off periods exceeding deteriorating conditions, and slowed growth in UK 360 days overdue are few, but can arise where personal unsecured lending following an increase in certain consumer finance accounts are deemed personal bankruptcies and IVAs.
Elsewhere, growth collectible beyond this point or where, in a few reflected underlying economic trends on a countries, regulation or legislation constrain earlier geographic basis.
The following table presents the maximum In the event of bankruptcy, or analogous exposure to credit risk of balance sheet and off proceedings, write-off can occur earlier.
balance sheet financial instruments, before taking account of any collateral held or other credit Cross-border exposures enhancements unless such credit enhancements meet Management assesses the vulnerability of countries offsetting requirements as set out in Note 2 m on to foreign currency payment restrictions when the Financial Statements.
For financial assets considering impairment allowances on cross-border recognised on the balance sheet, the exposure to exposures.
This assessment includes an analysis of credit risk equals their carrying amount.
For the economic and political factors existing at the financial guarantees granted, the maximum exposure time.
Economic factors include the level of external to credit risk is the maximum amount that HSBC indebtedness, the debt service burden and access to would have to pay if the guarantees are called upon.
external sources of funds to meet the debtor For loan commitments and other credit related countrys financing requirements.
Political factors commitments that are irrevocable over the life of the taken into account include the stability of the country respective facilities, the maximum exposure to credit and its government, threats to security, and the risk is the full amount of the committed facilities.
quality and independence of the legal system.
In addition to those amounts, there is a further maximum possible exposure to credit risk of US$464,984 million 2005: US$313,629 million, reflecting the full take-up of such irrevocable loan commitments.
The take-up of such offers is generally at modest levels.
2005 data have also been adjusted to ensure consistency with 2006 data for this disclosure.
Concentration of exposure and, at 30 per cent of total advances to customers, Audited were the Groups largest single sectoral concentration.
Concentrations of credit risk exist when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar activities, or Corporate, commercial and financial lending, operate in the same geographical areas or industry including settlement accounts, comprised 46 per cent sectors and have similar economic characteristics so of gross lending to customers at 31 December 2006. that their ability to meet contractual obligations is The largest single industry concentrations were in similarly affected by changes in economic, political non-bank financial institutions and commercial real or other conditions.
estate lending, each of which amounted to 7 per cent of total gross lending to customers, broadly in line Loans and advances with 2005.
Unaudited Commercial, industrial and international trade Loans and advances were well spread across both lending grew strongly in 2006, notably to the service industry sectors and jurisdictions.
This increased this class of lending by At constant exchange rates, gross loans and a percentage point to 18 per cent of total gross loans advances to customers excluding the finance sector and advances to customers.
Within this category the and settlement accounts grew by US$82 billion or largest concentration of lending was to the service 11 per cent during 2006.
On the same basis, personal industry, which amounted to just over 5 per cent of lending comprised 58 per cent of HSBCs loan total gross lending to customers.
portfolio and 47 per cent of the growth in loans in Advances to banks were widely distributed, 2006. principally to major institutions, and with no single Including the financial sector and settlement exposure more than 5 per cent of total advances to accounts, personal lending represented banks.
US$476 billion, or 54 per cent, of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2006.
Within this total, residential mortgages were US$265 billion 177 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk Credit risk Exposure Financial investments The insurance businesses had a diversified Unaudited portfolio of debt and equity securities designated at fair value US$18 billion and debt securities At US$205 billion, total financial investments were classified as financial investments US$10 billion.
12 per cent higher than at the end of 2005.
Investments of US$93 billion in corporate debt and Securities held for trading other securities were the largest single concentration Unaudited of these assets, representing 46 per cent of overall investments, compared with 53 per cent at Total securities held for trading within trading assets 31 December 2005.
HSBCs holdings of corporate were US$204 billion.
The largest concentration of debt, asset-backed securities and other securities these assets was government and government agency were spread across a wide range of issuers and securities, which amounted to US$94 billion, or geographical regions, with 72 per cent invested in 46 per cent of overall trading securities.
This securities issued by banks and other financial included US$22 billion of treasury and other eligible institutions.
Corporate debt and other securities were US$67 billion or 33 per cent of overall trading Investments in governments and government securities, 4 percentage points lower than in 2005. agencies of US$76 billion were 37 per cent of Included within this were US$36 billion of debt overall financial investments, 4 percentage points securities issued by banks and other financial lower than in 2005.
One third of these investments institutions.
were held in treasury and other eligible bills.
2 Other personal loans and advances include second lien mortgages and other property-related lending.
3 Other commercial loans and advances include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
Year ended 31 December 2006 compared 31 December 2005.
On this basis, total loans and with year ended 31 December 2005 advances to customers grew by 11 per cent and gross Unaudited loans and advances increased by 15 per cent.
The commentary below analyses the movement in Geographically, total lending to personal lending on a constant currency basis noted in the customers was dominated by the diverse portfolios table above compared with the position at in North America US$232 billion, the UK 178 US$129 billion and Hong Kong US$39 billion.
market, fierce competition and continuing reduction Collectively, these lending books accounted for in assets from the suspended GHOS.
84 per cent of total lending to the personal sector, In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, mortgage balances 3 percentage points lower than the 87 per cent level fell by 6 per cent, as the sale of the broker-originated reported at 31 December 2005. mortgage business in Australia offset modest growth Residential mortgages rose by US$16 billion, or in most other countries.
6 per cent, to US$265 billion, representing 30 per Other personal lending grew by 12 per cent to cent of total gross loans to customers at US$211 billion at 31 December 2006, representing 31 December 2006.
Residential mortgages include 24 per cent of gross loans and advances to only first lien secured loans.
In value terms, growth customers.
was greatest in the UK, where residential mortgages increased by 7 per cent to US$83 billion, and in In North America, growth in other personal North America, where mortgage balances rose by lending was largely driven by credit card activity and 6 per cent to US$124 billion.
In the US, mortgage increased second lien mortgage balances.
In the US, balances within HSBC Finance increased by 13 per increased uptake of both prime and non-prime credit cent to US$76 billion.
In Hong Kong, mortgage cards was driven by targeted marketing campaigns balances rose by 1 per cent.
and the launch of several new co-branded cards.
The credit card market continued to be highly In North America, growth in residential competitive with many competitors relying on zero mortgage balances was attributable both to increases per cent offers to generate growth.
HSBC, by in non-prime lending originated through the branchcontrast, reduced the amount of its equivalent offers based consumer lending business and balances and focused instead on increased marketing.
In the acquired from correspondent brokers and banks first half of 2006, the US mortgage services business through the mortgage services business.
significantly increased the levels of second lien In light of emerging evidence of unforeseen mortgages, continuing the growth of this loan type deterioration within the US mortgage services that was instigated in 2005.
The rate of growth of the business in respect of originations made in 2005 and second lien mortgage book slowed in the latter half the first half of 2006, a wide range of initiatives was of the year as the deterioration of credit quality of implemented to mitigate the impact on the affected the portfolio became apparent.
This is discussed in portions of the business.
Consequently, in the second further detail under mortgage lending in the US on half of the year, growth in real estate lending slowed, page 189.
The US motor vehicle finance portfolio as the mortgage services business tightened its also grew, due to increased volumes in both the underwriting criteria, as detailed on page 189.
Prime dealer network and the consumer direct loan mortgage balances held in the US banking network programme, dampened by the expiration of fixedalso declined, as HSBC sold the majority of its new term loans and reduction in the level of incentives prime mortgage originations into the secondary offered by car manufacturers.
market and increased its securitisation programme, Other personal lending grew by 10 per cent in which together augmented the normal run-off of Europe.
In the UK, unsecured personal loan balances balances.
In Canada, mortgage balances rose, declined, reflecting a policy decision to constrain primarily due to a strong housing market and growth to selected segments by tightening continued expansion of HSBCs consumer finance underwriting criteria.
Credit card balances increased, business and core banking distribution channels.
driven by promotional and marketing campaigns, In the UK, mortgage balances rose by 7 per with strong growth in M&S branded credit cards.
In cent, primarily in the form of fixed rate mortgages as Turkey, unsecured personal lending grew strongly customers sought to insulate themselves from rising reflecting the success of marketing initiatives and interest rates.
Mortgage lending in France cross-sales with existing credit card clients.
experienced strong growth, benefiting from Promotional and marketing activity contributed competitive pricing and a marked improvement in towards a strengthening of HSBCs position as the brand awareness following the rebranding of the largest credit card issuer in Hong Kong, with over business in 2005.
Residential mortgage balances in Hong Kong In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, other personal rose as increased marketing and product lending rose by 15 per cent.
Credit card balances development contributed to HSBC raising its market grew rapidly with an increase of over 1.2 million share.
This occurred despite a subdued housing cards in circulation in 2006 following new product 179 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Exposure launches in the Middle East, Sri Lanka and operations in mainland China seeking to fund Singapore and marketing and incentive campaigns expansion.
New initiatives designed to increase across the region.
Other unsecured lending balances commercial lending included a pre-approved lending rose during 2006, partly as a result of expansion of scheme and a telesales campaign, which led to HSBCs consumer finance business in India, growth in SME lending and a doubling in the Australia and Indonesia.
number of lending relationships in this segment.
This strong growth in Commercial Banking lending was In Latin America, other personal lending offset by the repayment of two large facilities by showed significant growth, rising by 49 per cent, Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets clients.
with cross-sales of the Tu Cuenta product generating strong demand for credit cards in Mexico.
In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, strong economic Personal lending balances, excluding mortgages, expansion in the Middle East led to greater demand rose by 25 per cent in Brazil, with increased vehicle for credit and regional lending balances rose in finance lending benefiting from strengthened response to increases in regional trade flows and relationships with car dealers, and higher numbers of increased marketing activity.
credit cards in issue following a number of In North America, expansion into new regional campaigns designed to improve retention and markets, higher levels of marketing and the utilisation.
recruitment of additional SME relationship managers Loans and advances to corporate and to meet customer demand contributed to growth in commercial customers grew by 14 per cent to corporate and commercial lending balances.
Lending was primarily in Europe, HSBC experienced strong growth in lending which accounted for 57 per cent of advances, over balances to SME businesses across Latin America three quarters of which was concentrated in the UK.
due to favourable economic conditions.
In Europe, corporate and commercial advances Additionally, in Mexico, strong demand for credit rose by 9 per cent, driven by lending growth in the from the rapidly growing real estate and residential UK, France and Turkey.
In the UK, there was firm construction sectors contributed to greater levels of growth in lending to the service industry and real lending.
estate and related construction businesses.
In France, The following tables analyse loans and advances improved retention of existing clients and by industry sector and by the location of the recruitment of new customers resulted in higher principal operations of the lending subsidiary or, in lending balances, while in Turkey expansion of the the case of the operations of The Hongkong and branch network, including dedicated SME centres, Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC contributed to growth in commercial advances.
Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, by the In Hong Kong there was strong demand for location of the lending branch.
2 Other commercial loans and advances include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
3 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$74,518 million.
4 Impairment allowances include collective impairment allowances on collectively assessed loans and advances.
3 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$66,020 million.
5 In 2006, Mexico and Panama were reclassified from the North America segment to the Latin America segment.
Comparative information has been restated accordingly.
See Note 13 on the Financial Statements.
3 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$56,222 million.
5 Included in North America are impaired loans of US$3,020 million and specific provisions of US$3,443 million in HSBC Finance: excluding HSBC Finance, specific provisions outstanding as a percentage of impaired loans was 54.6 per cent.
6 In 2006, Mexico and Panama were reclassified from the North America segment to the Latin America segment.
2 Figures presented in this table were prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
4 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$48,634 million.
6 Included in North America are non-performing loans of US$4,335 million and specific provisions of US$4,448 million in HSBC Finance: excluding HSBC Finance, specific provisions outstanding as a percentage of non-performing loans was 69.2 per cent.
7 In 2006, Mexico and Panama were reclassified from the North America segment to the Latin America segment.
3 Other commercial loans include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
4 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$9,950 million.
186 Loans and advances to banks by geographical region Gross Rest of loans and Hong North Latin advances Impairment Asia- 2 Europe Kong Pacific America America to banks allowances US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2006 audited.
2 2002 to 2004: provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
Financial assets net exposure to credit risk Audited In respect of certain financial assets, HSBC has legally enforceable rights to offset them with financial liabilities.
However, in normal circumstances, there would be no intention of settling net, or of realising the financial assets and settling the financial liabilities simultaneously.
Consequently, the financial assets are not offset against the respective financial liabilities for financial reporting purposes.
However, the exposure to credit risk relating to the respective financial assets is mitigated as follows.
187 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Exposure Areas of special interest Debt securities and other bills by rating agency designation Audited The following table presents an analysis by rating agency designation of debt and similar securities, other than loans, based on Standard and Poors ratings or their equivalent.
Debt securities with short-term ratings are reported against the long-term rating of the issuer of the short-term debt securities.
If major rating agencies have different ratings for the same debt securities, the securities are reported against the lower rating.
2 Securities supporting liabilities under linked insurance and investment contracts and investment contracts with DPF are analysed across the rating agency designations.
188 Areas of special interest traditional fixed rate mortgages.
These have included interest-only, stated income low documentation, Mortgage lending products adjustable rate with alternative payment options Unaudited known as option ARMs, negatively amortising and HSBC underwrites first lien residential mortgages, layered risk loans, the latter of which includes as well as loans secured by second lien mortgages secondary loans.
The growth of affordability which are reported within Other personal lending mortgages has occurred simultaneously with in the market sector analysis.
In addition to capital or gradually rising loan-to-value ratios.
principal repayment mortgages that may be subject Stated income loans have a lesser income to either fixed or variable interest rates, HSBC documentation requirement during the underwriting responds to customer needs by periodically testing process and, accordingly, carry a higher risk.
and underwriting an increasing range of mortgage Interest-only loans allow customers to pay only products designed to meet the growing demand for accruing interest for a period of time, and provide flexible house purchase loans.
Adjustable-rate Interest-only mortgages, including endowment mortgages are loans where the interest rate is mortgages which are most prevalent in the UK, periodically adjusted based on an index.
Secondary allow customers to pay only the interest that accrues loans which are, for example, drawn down to finance on the loan, with the principal sum repaid at a later the costs of relocation and property acquisition, are stage.
In many cases, customers contribute to an also increasingly common.
endowment or other investment policy that should, As a consequence of US consumer demand for on maturity, provide sufficient capital to repay the affordability mortgages, this segment of the US loan principal amount.
Alternatively, customers may portfolio experienced rapid growth in 2005, repay the principal of their loan from the proceeds of continuing into 2006.
HSBC does not offer, and does the sale of the property on which the loan is secured not anticipate offering, option ARMs or other or from other repayment sources negative amortisation products.
Affordability mortgages include all products As with all lending, HSBC underwrites in where the customers monthly payments are accordance with criteria that consider the particular maintained at a low or fixed level in early periods terms of the loan and prices affordability products in using discounted or fixed interest rates, or an a manner designed to compensate for the higher risk interest-only introductory period, before resetting to that exists in these products, notably the increase in a higher variable rate or a capital repayment profile payments required at the end of the introductory in later years.
interest-only period or following the rate reset date.
The US has, in recent years seen a significant The following table shows the level of change in the structure of borrowing products in mortgage products in the various portfolios of HSBC the sub-prime mortgage market.
In particular, Finance and the rest of the HSBC Group.
3 Loan to value ratios are generally based on values at origination date.
Mortgage lending in the US quarter of 2006 and began to affect second and first Unaudited lien loans acquired in that year.
Further deterioration in the fourth quarter of 2006 was largely in the first Mortgage lending in the US includes loans and lien adjustable-rate and second lien portfolios.
advances to customers with a first lien interest over HSBC also determined that a significant number of a property.
These balances are secured and are its second lien customers have underlying reported within residential mortgages.
Loans with adjustable-rate first mortgages that face repricing in only a second lien are reported in other personal the near-term which, based on experience, are lending.
The commentary that follows discusses both estimated to adversely affect the probability of residential mortgages and second lien loans included repayment on the related second lien mortgage.
As within other personal lending.
numerous interest rate rises have occurred as credit HSBC continues to monitor a range of trends has tightened and there has been either a slowdown affecting the US mortgage lending industry.
Housing in the rate of appreciation of properties or a decline markets in a large part of the US have been affected in their value, it is estimated that the probability of by a general slowing in the rate of appreciation in default on adjustable-rate first mortgages subject to property values, or an actual decline in some repricing, and on any second lien mortgage loans markets, while the period of time properties remain that are subordinate to adjustable-rate first liens, is unsold has increased.
In addition, the ability of some greater than has been experienced in the past.
As a borrowers to service their adjustable-rate mortgages result, loan impairment charges relating to the ARMs has been compromised as interest rates mortgage services portfolio have increased have risen, increasing the amounts payable on their significantly.
loans as prices reset higher under their contracts.
The Accordingly, while overall credit performance, effect of interest rate adjustments on first mortgages as measured by delinquency and write-off rates, has are also estimated to have had a direct impact on performed broadly in line with industry trends across borrowers ability to repay any additional second other parts of the US mortgage portfolio, higher lien mortgages taken out on the same properties.
delinquency and losses have been reported in Similarly, as interest-only mortgages leave the mortgage services, largely in the aforementioned interest-only payment period, rising payment loans originated in 2005 and 2006.
A number of obligations are expected to strain the ability of steps have been taken to mitigate risk in the affected borrowers to make the increased payments.
Studies parts of the portfolio.
These include enhanced published in the US, and HSBCs own experience, segmentation and analytics to identify the higher risk indicate that mortgages originated throughout the portions of the portfolio, and increased collections industry in 2005 and 2006 are performing worse than capacity.
HSBC is restructuring or modifying loans loans originated in prior periods.
in accordance with defined policies if it believes that The effects of these recent trends have been customers will continue to pay the restructured or concentrated in the mortgage services business modified loan.
Also, customers who have adjustablemortgage services, which purchases first and rate mortgage loans nearing the first reset, and who second lien mortgages from a network of over 220 are expected to be the most affected by a rate third party lenders.
As detailed in the table below, adjustment, are being contacted in order to assess this business has approximately US$49.5 billion of their ability to make the higher payment and, as loans and advances to personal customers, 10.4 per appropriate, refinance or modify their loans.
cent of the Groups gross loans and advances to Furthermore, HSBC has slowed growth in this personal customers.
portion of the portfolio by implementing repricing initiatives in selected segments of the originated In 2005 and continuing into the first six months loans and tightening underwriting criteria, especially of 2006, second lien mortgage loans in mortgage for second lien, stated income low documentation services increased significantly as a percentage of and other higher risk segments.
These actions, total loans acquired compared with prior periods.
combined with normal attrition, resulted in a net During the second quarter of 2006 HSBC began to reduction in loans and advances in mortgage services experience deterioration in the credit performance of during the second half of 2006.
It is expected that mortgages acquired in 2005 by mortgage services in this portfolio will remain under pressure as the loans the second lien and portions of the first lien originated in 2005 and 2006 season.
The deterioration continued in the third expected that this portfolio will run off faster than in 190 the past as originations in it will be limited in 2007 In 2007, approximately US$13.2 billion of and beyond.
Accordingly, the increasing trend in adjustable rate mortgage loans will reach their first overall delinquency and write-offs in mortgage interest rate reset, of which US$2.5 billion relate to services is expected to continue.
HSBC USA Inc and US$10.7 billion to HSBC Finance, within which US$9.9 billion is mortgage US mortgage loan balances services, the remainder consumer lending.
In 2008, a Unaudited further US$8.7 billion of adjustable-rate mortgage loans will reset for the first time, of which The following table summarises mortgage balance US$3.6 billion relate to HSBC USA Inc and information for the mortgage services and consumer US$5.1 billion to HSBC Finance, within which lending businesses within Personal Financial US$3.8 billion is mortgage services, the remainder Services in the US.
Mortgages include first lien consumer lending.
Adjustable rate mortgages in residential mortgages, and second lien mortgage HSBC USA Inc. are largely prime balances.
lending which is reported within Other personal lending in the market sector analysis.
The balance of stated income mortgages was approximately US$14.4 billion at the end of 2006, or At 31 December 2006, the outstanding balance 3 per cent of Groups gross loans and advances to of interest-only loans in the US mortgage services personal customers.
At the end of 2005, the business was US$6.3 billion, or 1.3 per cent of the outstanding balance was US$9.6 billion, or 2.3 per Groups gross loans and advances to personal cent of loans.
Of these amounts, US$11.8 billion and customers, a rise of 22 per cent compared with US$7.3 billion at the end of 2006 and 2005, US$5.2 billion, or 1.2 per cent of loans in 2005. respectively, relate to HSBC Finance mortgage The outstanding balance of adjustable rate services.
There were no stated income mortgages in mortgages in the US mortgage services business at consumer lending in either period.
The remainder of 31 December 2006 was US$20.8 billion, 4.4 per cent the stated income balances are held by HSBC USA of the Groups gross loans and advances to personal Inc. customers, a rise of 9 per cent compared with the end of 2005.
cross-border exposures Unaudited The following table summarises the aggregate of in-country foreign currency and cross-border HSBC controls the risk associated with cross-border outstandings by type of borrower to countries which lending, essentially that foreign currency will not be individually represent in excess of 1 per cent of made available to local residents to make payments, HSBCs total assets.
The classification is based on through a centralised structure of internal country the country of residence of the borrower but also limits which are determined by taking into account recognises the transfer of country risk in respect of relevant economic and political factors.
Exposures to third party guarantees, eligible collateral held and residence of the head office when the borrower is a 191 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Credit quality branch.
In accordance with the Bank of England under finance leases, acceptances, commercial bills, Country Exposure Report Form CE guidelines, certificates of deposit, and debt and equity securities outstandings comprise loans and advances net of short positions, and exclude accrued interest excluding settlement accounts, amounts receivable and intra-HSBC exposures.
However, loans and advances in grades The aggregate in-country foreign currency and cross- 1-3 satisfactory risk declined to 91.7 per cent border outstandings were Australia: US$17.5 billion: 2005: 96.4 per cent of loans and advances to Hong Kong: US$15.5 billion.
customers neither past due nor impaired.
This was At 31 December 2005, HSBC had in-country mainly due to the transfer of the US mortgage foreign currency and cross-border outstandings to services book of US$44.5 billion to grades 4 and 5 to counterparties in Hong Kong, Australia and Canada reflect increased scrutiny of this portfolio for the of between 0.75 per cent and 1 per cent of total reasons explained on page 189.
The aggregate in-country foreign currency realignment, satisfactory risk across the remainder of and cross-border outstandings were Hong Kong: the Group showed a marginally improving trend.
US$14.6 billion: Australia: US$12.5 billion: Canada: The deterioration in quality in US first lien and US$11.7 billion.
second lien mortgages and, to a lesser extent, UK At 31 December 2004, HSBC had in-country foreign personal unsecured portfolios also reflected in an currency and cross-border outstandings to increase in the proportion of customer loans and counterparties in Australia and Canada of between advances which were past due but not impaired to 0.75 per cent and 1 per cent of total assets.
aggregate in-country foreign currency and crossCredit quality of loans and advances to banks border outstandings were Australia: US$12.7 billion: was stable.
192 Loans and advances Distribution of loans and advances by credit quality Audited At 31 December 2006 At 31 December 2005 Loans and Loans and Loans and Loans and advances to advances to advances to advances to customers banks customers banks US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances: neither past due nor impaired................................ 856,681 185,125 731,116 125,930 past due but not impaired...................................... 11,245 72 8,797 22 impaired................................................................. 13,785 15 11,446 22 881,711 185,212 751,359 125,974 Distribution of loans and advances neither past due nor impaired Audited The credit quality of the portfolio of loans and credit grading system, as described on page 173.
The advances that were neither past due nor impaired can following information is based on that system: be assessed by reference to the Groups standard At 31 December 2006 At 31 December 2005 Loans and Loans and Loans and Loans and advances to advances to advances to advances to customers banks customers banks US$m US$m US$m US$m Grades: 1 to 3 satisfactory risk........................................... 785,946 184,059 705,036 125,324 4 watch list and special mention........................... 62,557 1,040 19,950 555 5 sub-standard but not impaired............................ 8,178 26 6,130 51 856,681 185,125 731,116 125,930 This analysis excludes loans and advances graded 1-5 that are contractually past due.
The HSBC Finance mortgage services portfolio of US$44.5 billion included in the above table is reported in grades 4 and 5.
Loans and advances which were past due but not impaired Audited Examples of exposures designated past due but not potential interest for at least one year, and short-term considered impaired include loans fully secured by trade facilities past due more than 90 days for cash collateral, residential mortgages in arrears more technical reasons such as delays in documentation, than 90 days, but where the value of collateral is but where there is no concern over the sufficient to repay both the principal debt and all creditworthiness of the counterparty.
The total gross amount of impaired loans and and US$7,952 million 2005: US$6,486 million advances to customers as at 31 December 2006 was related to portfolios of homogeneous loans and US$13,785 million 2005: US$11,446 million, of advances.
The following table presents an analysis of which US$5,833 million 2005: US$4,960 million individually impaired loans by industry sector and related to individually impaired loans and advances by geographical region: Individually impaired loans and advances to customers Audited Gross impaired % of total Rest of loans and gross Hong AsiaNorth Latin advances to impaired 1 Europe Kong Pacific America America customers loans US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % At 31 December 2006.................
2 In 2006, Mexico and Panama were reclassified from the North America segment to the Latin America segment.
194 Year ended 31 December 2006 compared some US$340 million.
In the Middle East, the 8 per with year ended 31 December 2005 cent rise in impaired loans reflected lending growth.
Unaudited Impaired loans declined in most other countries, reflecting buoyant regional economies.
Total impaired loans to customers were US$13,785 million at 31 December 2006, an In North America there was a rise of 30 per increase of 20 per cent since the end of 2005.
At cent in impaired loans, to US$4,822 million at constant currency the growth was 14 per cent and, at 31 December 2006.
Growth was substantially driven 31 December 2006, impaired loans as a percentage by credit deterioration in second lien, some portions of gross customer loans and advances were 1.56 per of first lien and adjustable-rate mortgages in the US cent 2005: 1.52 per cent.
The US represented 9 mortgage services book, as detailed on page 189. percentage points of overall growth and 33 per cent This was partly offset by the non-recurrence of of total impaired customer loans at 31 December significant loan impairment allowances which were 2006. raised in 2005 as a result of hurricane Katrina and The commentary that follows is based on increased levels of bankruptcy filings in the fourth constant exchange rates.
As a consequence of this latter factor, HSBC experienced bankruptcies significantly In Europe, impaired loans rose by 4 per cent to below long-term trends in the first half of 2006.
In the UK, impaired Continuing assessments of the financial impact of loans grew by 11 per cent over the same period.
The hurricane Katrina on HSBC Finances customers UK market remained challenging, with pressure on living in the Katrina Federal Emergency consumers through high levels of personal Management Agency designated Individual indebtedness, compounded by interest rate rises.
Assistance disaster areas resulted in a downwards These effects were to an extent masked by the revision of the estimate of credit loss exposure in the growing prevalence of personal bankruptcies and first half of 2006.
IVAs, at the completion of which any unpaid balances are written off.
UK commercial and In contrast to the accelerated credit weakness corporate lending remained broadly stable.
In witnessed in the mortgage services business, the France, impaired loans fell mainly as a result of trend of credit delinquency across the majority of the more active portfolio management, including the other portfolios, including mortgage balances sale of a portfolio of substantially impaired debt and, originated through the branch-based consumer in Turkey, higher impaired balances were broadly in lending business, rose modestly, driven by growing line with growth in customer advances: the credit portfolio maturity and a higher mix of credit card environment in these countries was relatively stable.
receivables following the Metris acquisition.
Impaired loans in Hong Kong were 10 per cent In Canada, impaired loans increased as a lower at US$454 million at 31 December 2006. small number of commercial customers in the HSBC responded to moderate volatility in its loan manufacturing sector were adversely affected by portfolio by launching a number of initiatives to the stronger Canadian dollar.
strengthen credit management and risk monitoring In Latin America, impaired loans increased by procedures, in order to improve the credit quality of 14 per cent to US$1,478 million, partly due to its portfolio.
As a result, the number of newly acquisitions in 2006 and partly to a higher amount of impaired loans fell and an increased number of loans personal lending.
Growth was mainly in Mexico and were written off.
In Mexico, impaired loans rose through In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, impaired loans strong growth in lending to personal and commercial increased by 23 per cent to US$1,184 million.
In customers, particularly the small and middle market Taiwan, delinquency problems emerged in the sectors.
In Brazil, impaired loans rose by 6 per cent, middle of 2005, centred on a relatively small number reflecting lending growth and some continuing credit of highly leveraged consumers.
This prompted a stress, in part mitigated through tightened range of regulatory changes aimed at avoiding a underwriting criteria introduced during 2005 and financial crisis, the most significant being the 2006. introduction of a government debt negotiation mechanism by which banks were instructed to make available deferred repayment terms at discounted rates.
The consequence of this was to widen considerably the group of debtors seeking relief and increase substantially HSBCs impaired loans to 195 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Credit quality Renegotiated loans Impairment allowances and charges Interest forgone on impaired loans Restructuring is most commonly applied to Audited consumer finance portfolios.
The largest concentration is in the US, and amounts to Interest income that would have been recognised US$16.7 billion 2005: US$14.2 billion or 81 per under the original terms of impaired and restructured cent 2005: 79 per cent of the total renegotiated loans amounted to approximately US$104 million in loans.
The increase was substantially driven by 2006, compared with US$275 million in 2005 and credit deterioration in second lien, some portions of US$280 million in 2004.
Interest income from such first lien, and adjustable-rate mortgages in the US loans of approximately US$276 million was mortgage services book as detailed on page 189. recorded in 2006, compared with US$120 million The majority of restructured amounts arise from in 2005. secured lending.
Renegotiated loans Collateral and other credit enhancements Audited obtained Restructuring activity is designed to manage Audited customer relationships, maximise collection HSBC obtained assets by taking possession of opportunities and, if possible, avoid foreclosure or collateral held as security, or calling upon other repossession.
Such activities include extended credit enhancements, as follows: payment arrangements, approved external debt management plans, deferring foreclosure, Audited Carrying amount obtained in: modification, loan rewrites and or deferral of 2006 2005 payments pending a change in circumstances.
US$m US$m Following restructuring, an overdue consumer Nature of assets account is normally reset from delinquent to current Residential property................. 1,716 1,171 status.
Restructuring policies and practices are based Commercial and industrial property................................ 6 26 on indicators or criteria which, in the judgement of Other........................................ 215 138 local management, indicate that repayment will probably continue.
These policies are required to be 1,937 1,335 kept under continual review and their application varies according to the nature of the market, the Repossessed properties are made available for product, and the availability of empirically based sale in an orderly fashion, with the proceeds used to data.
When empirical evidence indicates an reduce or repay the outstanding indebtedness.
Where increased propensity to default on restructured excess funds are available after the debt has been accounts, the use of roll rate methodology ensures repaid, they are available either for other secured this factor is taken into account when calculating lenders with lower priority or are returned to the impairment allowances.
HSBC does not generally occupy repossessed properties for its business use.
The Renegotiated loans that would otherwise be majority of repossessed properties arose in HSBC past due or impaired totalled US$20.7 billion at Finance.
197 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Impairment allowances Movement in impairment allowances by industry segment and by geographical region The following tables show details of the movements A discussion of the material movements in the in HSBCs impairment allowances by location of loan impairment charges by region follows these lending office for each of the past five years.
Audited 2006 Rest of Hong AsiaNorth Latin Europe Kong Pacific America America Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 3 Impairment allowances at 1 January restated.
2 Collectively assessed impairment allowances are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the allowance.
Consequently, the collectively assessed impairment allowances booked in Hong Kong may cover assets booked in branches located outside Hong Kong, principally in the Rest of Asia-Pacific, as well as those booked in Hong Kong.
3 In 2006, Mexico and Panama were reclassified from the North America segment to the Latin America segment.
2 General provisions are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the provision.
Consequently, the general provision booked in Hong Kong may cover assets booked in branches located outside Hong Kong, principally in the Rest of Asia-Pacific, as well as those booked in Hong Kong.
2 Other movements include amounts of US$129 million in Europe and US$4,524 million in North America transferred in on the acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation, and of US$116 million in Latin America transferred in on the acquisition of Lloyds TSB Groups Brazilian businesses and assets.
3 General provisions are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the provision.
4 In 2006, Mexico and Panama were reclassified from the North America segment to the Latin America segment.
2 Other movements include amounts transferred in on the acquisition of HSBC Mexico of US$1,704 million.
Year ended 31 December 2006 compared the recent active marketing of bankruptcy and IVA with year ended 31 December 2005 relief through the media by debt advisors.
Unaudited Additionally, a rise in unemployment, which began in the middle of 2005, and modest rises in interest Loan impairment charges increased by rates added to the strain on some personal customers.
US$2,687 million, or 34 per cent, compared with In response, HSBC tightened underwriting controls 2005.
Acquisitions accounted for US$309 million of in the second half of 2005, reduced its market share the rise, mainly Metris in the US.
On an underlying of unsecured personal lending and changed the basis the increase was 30 per cent.
Personal product mix of new business towards lower-risk Financial Services continued to dominate loan customers.
In 2006 there were early signs of impairments, representing 94 per cent of the Groups improvement in more recent unsecured lending.
On a constant currency basis, the key trends loan impairment charges also rose in Turkey, by were as follows.
30 per cent, mainly due to growth in unsecured New allowances for loan impairment charges of credit card and personal lending as overall credit US$12,037 million increased by 27 per cent quality remained stable.
In France, new charges fell, compared with 2005.
Releases and recoveries of reflecting a stable credit environment and the allowances were broadly in line with 2005. reduction in charges following the sale of a consumer finance business in the second half of In Europe, new loan impairment charges rose 2005. by 9 per cent compared with 2005 to US$3,000 million.
A challenging credit environment Releases and recoveries in Europe of in UK unsecured lending, which began to deteriorate US$860 million were 17 per cent higher than in in the middle of 2005, was the primary cause of the 2005.
Increases in the UK were partially offset by a increase, although this was partly mitigated by decline in France.
In the UK, increased resources continued benign corporate and commercial deployed on collection activities combined with a impairment experience.
Personal bankruptcies and rise in sales of delinquent debt were reflected in the use of IVAs have been on a rising trend since the significantly higher recoveries.
The non-recurrence introduction of legislation in 2004 that eased filing of several significant recoveries in 2005 led to a requirements, and this was further exacerbated by large fall in France.
205 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Loan impairment charge In Hong Kong, new loan impairment charges addition, the extra payment obligations arising from declined by 22 per cent to US$243 million, the repricing of adjustable-rate mortgages to higher reflecting the non-recurrence of an individual charge rates added to the assessed impairment of the in 2005 for a large commercial customer.
This was correspondent portfolio, in particular in respect of partly offset by a rise in credit card impairments as a second lien mortgages ranking behind adjustableresult of a rise in balances.
Overall, credit quality rate first lien mortgages.
remained stable as strong economic growth and low As interest rate adjustments will be occurring levels of unemployment continued.
in an environment of lower home value Releases and recoveries fell by 49 per cent to appreciation and tightening credit, it is estimated US$86 million, again mainly as a result of fewer that the probability of default on adjustable-rate individual impairment releases in the corporate and first mortgages subject to repricing, and on any commercial sector and the non-recurrence of second lien mortgage loans that are subordinate to mortgage lending recoveries in 2005, following an adjustable-rate first lien, will be greater than improvement in the property market since 2004. has been experienced in the past.
As a result, loan impairment charges relating to the mortgage In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, there was an 88 per services portfolio have increased significantly.
cent rise in new impairment allowances to US$737 million.
This was an improvement on the In the second half of 2006, HSBC took action to situation in the first half of 2006, when new tighten credit criteria in the mortgage services impairment charges were 111 per cent higher than in operation as detailed on page 189.
As a consequence, the first half of 2005.
The year-on-year increase was balances in mortgage services declined compared largely due to Taiwan and, to a lesser extent, with 30 June 2006.
During the first half of 2006, new Notwithstanding the credit weakness witnessed government regulations placing restrictions on in the mortgage services business, credit delinquency collection activity, combined with the popularity of in the majority of the other portfolios, including renegotiation schemes offering the opportunity to mortgage balances originated through the branchwaive interest and postpone principal payments, led based consumer lending business, rose modestly, to a sharp rise in credit card defaults, for which a full driven by portfolio ageing and an increased year charge of US$200 million was recorded.
In the proportion of credit card loans following the Metris second half of 2006, this problem had begun to acquisition.
Partially offsetting factors included the moderate and new impairment charges were 31 per effects of a decline in bankruptcy filings, especially cent lower than in the first half.
In Indonesia, in the first half of 2006 following the spike in the increased loan impairment charges in the personal fourth quarter of 2005, low unemployment and the sector reflected legislation which introduced higher non-recurrence of charges relating to hurricane minimum payment rules and a reduction in fuel Katrina.
There were further rises in the Middle East, largely due to loan growth.
Elsewhere in the HSBC in the US closely monitors the tworegion, credit quality was stable.
month-and-over contractual delinquency ratio being the ratio of two or more months delinquent accounts Releases and recoveries in the region fell by to gross loans and advances, as management views 11 per cent to US$225 million.
The fall was mainly this as an important indicator of future write-offs.
in Malaysia and was partly offset by a rise in Details are disclosed below.
The rise in the total ratio commercial releases and recoveries in the Middle was chiefly as a result of the mortgage services East.
In North America, new loan impairment The increase in the US was partly offset by a charges rose by 36 per cent.
Excluding Metris, new small decline in new loan impairment charges in charges increased by 30 per cent.
Credit Canada, as the strong economy continued to deterioration, mainly in second lien, some portions underpin good credit quality.
of first lien and adjustable-rate mortgages acquired from third party correspondents through HSBCs Releases and recoveries in North America mortgage services business, were the primary cause decreased by 23 per cent to US$146 million due to of the rise in new charges.
As the housing market in the non-recurrence of recoveries in the US.
the US slowed through 2006 and interest rates rose, In Latin America, new impairment charges delinquency trends on both second lien and portions rose by 24 per cent to US$1,113 million in 2006. of first lien mortgages originated in 2005 and 2006 This increase was chiefly attributable to Mexico and, were higher than for loans made in previous years.
In to a lesser extent, Brazil.
Strong growth in personal 206 and commercial lending in Mexico resulted in higher Turkey, new allowances have increased in line with new charges.
In Brazil, new charges rose by 11 per the growth in the personal loan portfolio.
cent, a significant reduction from the 52 per cent rise Releases and recoveries in Europe were reported in 2005, as credit quality improved US$1,058 million, an increase of 23 per cent.
following enhancements made to underwriting Including a general provision release of procedures during 2005 and 2006.
US$162 million in 2004, releases and recoveries Latin American releases and recoveries went up were broadly in line.
Increased releases in Turkey, by 7 per cent, largely in Mexico as a result of more largely reflecting higher volumes offset the nonstable political and economic conditions.
recurrence of the general provision release in Switzerland.
Year ended 31 December 2005 compared New impairment allowances in Hong Kong with year ended 31 December 2004 were US$359 million, a rise of 51 per cent.
This was Unaudited partially attributable to a small number of individual Loan impairment charges were US$7,860 million, an allowances for corporate and commercial customers.
increase of 27 per cent compared with 2004.
However, overall credit quality improved, evidenced Acquisitions accounted for US$107 million of the by a decline in impaired loans as a proportion of rise and US$498 million reflected the non-recurrence gross advances, reflecting a strong economy with of the general provision release in 2004.
charge remained dominated by the personal sector, Releases and recoveries in Hong Kong declined with losses in these portfolios representing 92 per by 53 per cent, including the non-recurrence of a cent of the Groups net loan impairment charge.
On general provision release of US$223 million in 2004. a constant currency basis, the trends were as follows.
Excluding this, releases and recoveries fell by 9 per New allowances for loan impairment charges cent to US$213 million as the significant number of were US$10,140 million, an increase of 13 per cent large corporate releases in 2004 was not repeated.
Releases and recoveries of The general provision release last year reflected a allowances increased by 4 per cent to review of historical loss experience and the US$2,280 million.
Including a general provision improved market environment.
release of US$498 million in 2004, releases and The effect of strong growth in advances in the recoveries decreased by 15 per cent.
Rest of Asia-Pacific produced an 11 per cent rise in In Europe, growth in UK personal lending and new impairment allowances to US$470 million.
In a weakening in credit quality were the principal particular, increased allowances in Taiwan were causes of a 50 per cent increase in new loan driven by a combination of loan growth and an impairment charges to US$3,042 million in 2005. increase in credit card delinquency.
There were Slower economic growth and weaker employment further increases in Indonesia and the Philippines conditions were compounded by a change in due to growth in advances, with credit quality stable legislation in 2004 that relaxed conditions for in both countries.
These were partially offset by personal bankruptcies, which rose to record highs by declines in mainland China and Singapore.
In response to these trends general, across the region, advances to customers in the personal portfolio, HSBC tightened rose and credit quality improved.
Non-performing underwriting controls, focusing more on existing assets, as a percentage of advances, fell across most relationships and changing the product mix towards major countries.
These actions, together with In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, releases and further centralisation of underwriting approvals and recoveries rose by 6 per cent to US$334 million, revised reward programmes, assisted in mitigating including the US$48 million general provision the rate of growth in new impairment charges release in 2004.
Excluding this, releases and towards the end of 2005.
In the commercial sector, recoveries were 24 per cent higher than 2004.
There there were a number of individually significant new were higher releases and recoveries across most charges raised in the fourth quarter, as well as a countries in the region reflecting the strong higher rate of new allowances.
Although credit economic environment, although in Malaysia and charges remained low by historic standards, the trend Singapore there were declines, due to the nonis progressively moving back to more normal levels.
recurrence of the general provision releases in 2004.
Elsewhere in Europe, France and Italy saw declines in new allowances, due to the sale of a consumer New loan impairment allowances in North finance subsidiary during the year and the nonAmerica declined by 6 per cent.
This was despite recurrence of corporate charges, respectively.
In 207 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Loan impairment charge Loan delinquency in the US loan growth, and the additional credit allowances environment and a strong economy.
Under IFRSs, raised in relation to hurricane Katrina, and from 1 January 2005 certain recoverable amounts accelerated bankruptcy filings in the second half of were incorporated into the loan impairment charge the year ahead of new legislation in the US.
A directly resulting in lower reported recoveries.
There portion of the increase in bankruptcies was an were further decreases in Bank of Bermuda, acceleration of write-offs that would have otherwise following the non-recurrence of the general been experienced in future periods.
In an effort to provision release in 2004.
These declines were offset assist customers affected by hurricane Katrina, by a more than five-fold increase in releases in HSBC initiated various programmes, including Canada, where better credit quality was driven by extended payment arrangements.
The reduction in improved economic conditions, particularly in the the charge also reflected the non-recurrence of a resource-driven economy of western Canada.
US$47 million charge in 2004, following the In Latin America, new impairment allowances adoption of FFIEC write-off policies relating to in Brazil were the principal cause of a 60 per cent retail and credit card balances.
Excluding these rise in new charges to US$898 million in 2005.
In factors, credit quality improved year on year, Brazil, significant growth of 24 per cent in gross reflecting an improving economic environment.
This advances, coupled with deteriorating credit quality in contributed to the fall in new impairment the consumer finance business, were the main allowances, which was only partially offset by contributing factors to this increase.
Lending growth increased requirements due to loan growth.
HSBC combined with a move into the low-income segment, has benefited from the shift in the balance of the where finances have been stretched by higher consumer lending business towards higher credit interest rates, drove higher delinquency.
HSBC Finance monitors the twowere made to underwriting procedures during the month-and-over contractual delinquency ratio year, to improve the credit quality of new business.
closely, as management views it as an important This resulted in a falling impairment charge to asset indicator of future write-offs.
The ratio declined ratio towards the end of the year.
In Mexico, new from 4.0 per cent at 31 December 2004 to 3.6 per allowances also rose, chiefly due to lending growth.
cent at 30 June 2005, rising to 3.7 per cent at New allowances in Argentina were in line with 31 December 2005.
Lending in the US is primarily 2004. in the personal sector.
Credit quality in the commercial portfolio was stable in 2005.
The Releases and recoveries in Latin America were favourable trends in the US were partially offset by broadly in line with 2004.
Recoveries in Brazil rose rises in new allowances in Canada which were as a result of improved collections, compounded by largely driven by personal loan growth in recent higher releases as a result of greater volumes of years, with an improvement in underlying credit advances.
In Mexico, releases and recoveries quality.
declined following the non-recurrence of a large number of recoveries in 2004.
Releases in Argentina Releases and recoveries in North America were fell as impaired loans reduced.
The combined fall in modestly lower than in 2005.
Including the 2004 Argentina and Mexico offset the rise in Brazil.
general provision release of US$45 million, releases and recoveries declined by 31 per cent.
2.22 1.93 1.86 2.00 2.28 2.24 2.32 2.42 1 In December 2006, the vehicle finance business changed its write-off policy to provide that the principal balance of vehicle loans in excess of the estimated net realisable value will be written-off 30 days previously 90 days after the financed vehicle has been repossessed if it remains unsold, unless it becomes 150 days contractually delinquent, at which time such excess will be written off.
This resulted in a one-time acceleration of write-off which totalled US$24 million in December 2006.
In connection with this policy change the vehicle finance business also changed its methodology for reporting two-months-and-over contractual delinquency to include loan balances associated with repossessed vehicles which have not yet been written down to net realisable value.
This resulted in an increase of 42 basis points to the vehicle finance delinquency ratio and an increase of 3 basis points to the total consumer delinquency ratio.
Prior period amounts have been restated to conform to the current year presentation.
2 In December 2005, the acquisition of Metris was completed which included loans and advances of US$5.3 billion.
This event had a significant impact on this ratio.
Excluding the loans and advances from the Metris acquisition from the December 2005 calculation, the consumer delinquency ratio for the credit card portfolio was 3.71 per cent and total consumer delinquency was 3.00 per cent.
210 HSBC Holdings other credit enhancements, was as tabulated below.
Audited No collateral or other credit enhancements were HSBC Holdings manages its credit risk by limiting held by HSBC Holdings in respect of its transactions its exposure to transactions with its subsidiary with subsidiary undertakings.
HSBC Holdings financial assets are held with HSBC Holdings maximum exposure to credit subsidiaries of HSBC, primarily those domiciled in risk at 31 December 2006, excluding collateral or Europe and North America.
Unaudited In the US, the credit deterioration in the mortgage services business was the principal cause of the rise The disclosure of credit risk elements under the and in Mexico the increase was partly volume following headings reflects US accounting practice driven.
and classifications: loans accounted for on a non-accrual basis: Impaired loans Unaudited accruing loans contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest or principal: and In accordance with IFRSs, interest income continues to be recognised on assets that have been written troubled debt restructurings not included in the down as a result of an impairment loss.
following tables, HSBC presents information on its impaired loans and advances which are designated in Troubled debt restructurings accordance with the policy described above.
Unaudited Impaired loans are consistent with the nonUS GAAP requires separate disclosure of any loans accrual basis classification used in US GAAP and in whose terms have been modified because of prior years.
For further information on impaired problems with the borrower to grant concessions loans refer to page 174. other than are warranted by market conditions.
These are classified as troubled debt restructurings Potential problem loans and are distinct from the normal restructuring Unaudited activities in personal loan portfolios described in Renegotiated loans on page 196.
Disclosure of Credit risk elements also cover potential problem troubled debt restructurings may be discontinued loans.
These are loans where information about after the first year if the debt performs in accordance borrowers possible credit problems causes with the new terms.
management serious doubts about the borrowers ability to comply with the loan repayment terms.
Troubled debt restructurings were broadly in There are no potential problem loans other than line with 2005. those identified in the table of risk elements set out below, and as discussed in areas of special interest Unimpaired loans past due 90 days or more above, including ARMs and stated income products.
Unaudited Unimpaired loans contractually past due 90 days or more increased by 18 per cent.
212 Liquidity and funding management The Groups liquidity and funding Audited management process includes: projecting cash flows by major currency and Liquidity risk is the risk that HSBC does not have considering the level of liquid assets necessary sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations in relation thereto: when they fall due, or will have to do so at excessive cost.
This risk can arise from mismatches monitoring balance sheet liquidity ratios in the timing of cash flows.
Funding risk a against internal and regulatory requirements: particular form of liquidity risk arises when the maintaining a diverse range of funding sources necessary liquidity to fund illiquid asset positions with adequate back-up facilities: cannot be obtained at the expected terms and when required.
managing the concentration and profile of debt maturities: The objective of HSBCs liquidity and funding management is to ensure that all foreseeable maintaining debt financing plans: funding commitments and deposit withdrawals can monitoring depositor concentration in order to be met when due, and that wholesale market access avoid undue reliance on large individual is co-ordinated and cost effective.
It is HSBCs depositors and ensuring a satisfactory overall objective to maintain a diversified and stable funding mix: and funding base comprising core retail and corporate customer deposits and institutional balances.
This maintaining liquidity and funding contingency is augmented by wholesale funding and portfolios plans.
These plans identify early indicators of of highly liquid assets which are diversified by stress conditions and describe actions to be currency and maturity, with the objective of taken in the event of difficulties arising from enabling HSBC to respond quickly and smoothly to systemic or other crises, while minimising unforeseen liquidity requirements.
adverse long-term implications for the business.
HSBC requires operating entities to maintain a strong liquidity position and to manage the Primary sources of funding liquidity profile of their assets, liabilities and Audited commitments with the objective of ensuring that cash flows are appropriately balanced and all Current accounts and savings deposits payable on obligations are met when due.
demand or at short notice form a significant part of HSBCs funding.
HSBC places considerable Policies and procedures importance on maintaining the stability of these Audited deposits.
The management of liquidity and funding is The stability of deposits, which are a primary primarily carried out locally in the operating source of funding, depends upon maintaining companies of HSBC in accordance with practices depositor confidence in HSBCs capital strength and limits set by the Group Management Board.
and liquidity, and on competitive and transparent These limits vary by local financial unit to take deposit-pricing strategies.
account of the depth and liquidity of the market in HSBC also accesses professional markets in which the entity operates.
It is HSBCs general order to provide funding for non-banking policy that each banking entity should be selfsubsidiaries that do not accept deposits, to maintain sufficient with regards to funding its own a presence in local money markets and to optimise operations.
Exceptions are permitted to facilitate the funding of asset maturities not naturally the efficient funding of certain short-term treasury matched by core deposit funding.
In aggregate, requirements and start-up operations or branches HSBCs banking entities are liquidity providers to which do not have access to local deposit markets, the inter-bank market, placing significantly more all of which are funded under clearly defined funds with other banks than they borrow.
internal and regulatory guidelines and limits from HSBCs largest banking operations.
These internal The main operating subsidiary that does not and regulatory limits and guidelines serve to place accept deposits is HSBC Finance, which funds formal limitations on the transfer of resources itself principally through taking term funding in the between HSBC entities and are necessary to reflect professional markets and through the securitisation the broad range of currencies, markets and time of assets.
At 31 December 2006, US$150 billion zones within which HSBC operates.
2005: US$132 billion of HSBC Finances 213 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Liquidity and funding HSBC Holdings liabilities were drawn from professional markets, US$911 billion 2005: US$810 billion, of which utilising a range of products, maturities and US$872 billion 2005: US$773 billion was currencies to avoid undue reliance on any particular contractually repayable within one year.
although the contractual repayments of many customer accounts are on demand or at short Of total liabilities of US$1,746 billion at notice, in practice short-term deposit balances 31 December 2006 2005: US$1,404 billion, remain stable as inflows and outflows broadly funding from customers amounted to match.
The balances in the above table will not agree year will be extended.
In addition, HSBC held debt directly to the balances in the consolidated balance securities marketable at a value of US$336 billion sheet as the table incorporates all cash flows, on an 2005: US$273 billion.
Of these assets, some undiscounted basis, related to both principal as well US$93 billion 2005: US$98 billion of debt as those associated with all future coupon securities and treasury and other bills were pledged payments.
Liabilities in trading portfolios have not to secure liabilities.
been analysed by contractual maturity because HSBC would meet unexpected net cash trading assets and liabilities are typically held for outflows by selling securities and accessing short periods of time.
additional funding sources such as interbank or Assets available to meet these liabilities, and to asset-backed markets.
cover outstanding commitments 2006: A key measure used by the Group for US$715 billion: 2005: US$642 billion, included managing liquidity risk is the ratio of net liquid cash, central bank balances, items in the course of assets to customer liabilities.
Generally, liquid collection and treasury and other bills 2006: assets comprise cash balances, short-term interbank US$87 billion: 2005: US$75 billion : loans to deposits and highly-rated debt securities available banks 2006: US$237 billion: 2005: for immediate sale and for which a deep and liquid US$156 billion, including US$179 billion 2005: market exists.
Net liquid assets are liquid assets US$121 billion repayable within one year: and less all wholesale market funds, and all funds loans to customers 2006: US$940 billion: 2005: provided by customers deemed to be professional, US$793 billion, including US$360 billion 2005: maturing in the next 30 days.
The definition of a US$313 billion repayable within one year.
In the professional customer takes account of the size of normal course of business, a proportion of the customers total deposits.
customer loans contractually repayable within one 214 Minimum liquidity ratio limits are set for each HSBC Holdings Audited bank operating entity.
Limits reflect the local market place, the diversity of funding sources HSBC Holdings primary sources of cash are available, and the concentration risk from large interest and capital receipts from its subsidiaries, depositors.
Compliance with entity level limits is which it deploys in short-term bank deposits or monitored by Group Finance in Head Office and liquidity funds.
HSBC Holdings primary uses of reported regularly to the Risk Management cash are investments in subsidiaries, interest Meeting.
payments to debt holders and dividend payments to shareholders.
On an ongoing basis, HSBC Holdings Ratio of net liquid assets to customer replenishes its liquid resources through the receipt liabilities of interest on, and repayment of, intra-group loans, Unaudited from dividends paid by subsidiaries and from Although consolidated data is not utilised in the interest earned on its own liquid funds.
The ability management of HSBCs liquidity, the consolidated of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance liquidity ratio figures of net liquid assets to monies to HSBC Holdings depends, among other customer liabilities shown in the following table things, on their respective regulatory capital provide a useful insight into the overall liquidity requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and position of the Groups banking entities.
Year ended 31 December HSBC actively manages the cash flows from 2006 2005 its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held % % at the holding company level, and expects to Year-end...................................... 20.6 17.1 continue doing so in the future.
Together with its accumulated liquid assets, HSBC Holdings believes that planned dividends and interest from subsidiaries will enable it to meet anticipated cash obligations.
Also, in usual circumstances, HSBC Holdings has full access to capital markets on normal terms.
Short-term assets of 2005: US$3,191 million, including US$7,738 million 2005: US$5,599 million US$1,507 million in respect of the proposed consisted mainly of cash at bank of US$729 million 215 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Market risk Value at risk 2005: US$756 million and loans and advances to market risks are consolidated within operations HSBC undertakings of US$6,886 million 2005: which have the necessary skills, tools, management US$4,661 million.
and governance to manage such risks professionally.
Market risk management Value at risk VAR Audited Audited The objective of HSBCs market risk management One of the principal tools used by HSBC to is to manage and control market risk exposures in monitor and limit market risk exposure is VAR.
order to optimise return on risk while maintaining a VAR is a technique that estimates the potential market profile consistent with the Groups status as losses that could occur on risk positions as a result a premier provider of financial products and of movements in market rates and prices over a services.
specified time horizon and to a given level of Market risk is the risk that movements in confidence.
market risk factors, including foreign exchange The VAR models used by HSBC are rates and commodity prices, interest rates, credit predominantly based on historical simulation.
The spreads and equity prices will reduce HSBCs historical simulation models derive plausible future income or the value of its portfolios.
Credit risk is scenarios from historical market rate time series, discussed separately in the Credit risk section on taking account of inter-relationships between page 171. different markets and rates, for example, between HSBC separates exposures to market risk into interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The either trading or non-trading portfolios.
Trading models also incorporate the impact of option portfolios include those positions arising from features in the underlying exposures.
market-making, proprietary position-taking and The historical simulation models used by other marked-to-market positions so designated.
HSBC incorporate the following features: The contribution of the marked-to-market positions so designated but not held with trading intent is potential market movements are calculated disclosed separately.
with reference to data from the last two years: Non-trading portfolios primarily arise from the historical market rates and prices are calculated interest rate management of HSBCs retail and with reference to foreign exchange rates and commercial banking assets and liabilities.
commodity prices, interest rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities: The management of market risk is principally undertaken in Global Markets using risk limits VAR is calculated to a 99 per cent confidence approved by the Group Management Board.
Limits level: and are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with VAR is calculated for a one-day holding market liquidity being a principal factor in period.
determining the level of limits set.
Traded Credit and Market Risk, an independent unit within HSBC routinely validates the accuracy of its Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets, VAR models by backtesting the actual daily profit develops the Groups market risk management and loss results, adjusted to remove non-modelled policies and measurement techniques.
Each major items such as fees and commissions, against the operating entity has an independent market risk corresponding VAR numbers.
Statistically, HSBC control function which is responsible for measuring would expect to see losses in excess of VAR only market risk exposures in accordance with the one per cent of the time over a one-year period.
The policies defined by Traded Credit and Market Risk, actual number of excesses over this period can and monitoring and reporting these exposures therefore be used to gauge how well the models are against the prescribed limits on a daily basis.
Each operating entity is required to assess the Although a valuable guide to risk, VAR should market risks which arise on each product in its always be viewed in the context of its limitations.
business and to transfer these risks to either its For example: local Global Markets unit for management, or to the use of historical data as a proxy for separate books managed under the supervision of estimating future events may not encompass the local Asset and Liability Management all potential events, particularly those which Committee ALCO.
The aim is to ensure that all are extreme in nature: 216 the use of a 1-day holding period assumes that The histograms below illustrate the frequency all positions can be liquidated or hedged in one of daily revenue arising from Global Markets day.
This may not fully reflect the market risk trading, balance sheet management and other arising at times of severe illiquidity, when a trading activities.
The average daily revenue earned 1-day holding period may be insufficient to therefrom in 2006 was US$21.3 million, compared liquidate or hedge all positions fully: with US$18.7 million in 2005.
The standard deviation of these daily revenues was US$11.4 the use of a 99 per cent confidence level, by million compared with US$10.4 million in 2005. definition, does not take into account losses The standard deviation measures the variation of that might occur beyond this level of daily revenues about the mean value of those confidence: and revenues.
VAR is calculated on the basis of exposures An analysis of the frequency distribution of outstanding at the close of business and daily revenue shows that there were two days with therefore does not necessarily reflect intra-day negative revenue during 2006 and three days in exposures.
The most frequent result was a daily revenue HSBC recognises these limitations by of between US$16 million and US$20 million with augmenting its VAR limits with other position and 46 occurrences.
Additionally, HSBC applies a wide range of stress testing, both on Daily distribution of Global Markets trading, individual portfolios and on the Groups balance sheet management and other trading consolidated positions.
HSBCs stress-testing revenues Unaudited regime provides senior management with an assessment of the financial impact of identified Year ended 31 December 2006 extreme events on the market risk exposures of Number of days HSBC.
The major cause of this was a reduction in risk positions arising from the Groups balance sheet management activities.
The daily VAR, for both trading and nontrading portfolios, for HSBC Global Markets was as follows: Daily total VAR for Global Markets US$m Unaudited Revenues US$m Profit and loss frequency Revenues US$m 217 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Market risk Value at risk Trading portfolios Non-trading portfolios Fair value and price verification control of restricting individual operations to trading within Audited a list of permissible instruments authorised for each site by Traded Credit and Market Risk, enforcing Where certain financial instruments are carried on rigorous new product approval procedures, and of the Groups balance sheet at fair values, the restricting trading in the more complex derivative valuation and the related price verification products only to offices with appropriate levels of processes are subject to independent validation product expertise and robust control systems.
Financial instruments which are accounted for on a fair value basis include assets In addition, at both portfolio and position held in the trading portfolio, financial instruments levels, market risk in trading portfolios is designated at fair value, obligations related to monitored and controlled using a complementary securities sold short, all derivative financial set of techniques.
These include VAR and, for instruments and available-for-sale securities.
interest rate risk, present value of a basis point movement in interest rates, together with stress and The determination of fair values is therefore a sensitivity testing and concentration limits.
These significant element in the reporting of the Groups techniques quantify the impact on capital of Global Markets activities.
Responsibility for determining accounting Total trading VAR for Global Markets at policies and procedures governing valuation and 31 December 2006 was US$32.6 million 2005: validation ultimately rests with independent finance US$32.7 million.
The VAR from positions taken functions which report functionally to the Group without trading intent was US$4.7 million 2005: Finance Director.
All significant valuation policies, US$6.9 million, the principal components of and any changes thereto, must be approved by which were hedges that failed to meet the strict senior finance management.
HSBCs governance of documentation and testing requirements of IAS 39 financial reporting requires that Financial Control i. e. non-qualifying hedges and other positions departments across the Group are independent of transacted as economic hedges but which also did the risk-taking businesses, with the Finance not qualify for hedge accounting.
HSBCs policy functions having ultimate responsibility for the on hedging is to manage economic risk in the most determination of fair values included in the appropriate way without regard as to whether financial statements, and for ensuring that the hedge accounting is available, within limits Groups policies comply with all relevant regarding the potential volatility of reported accounting standards.
When the of non-trading portfolios is to optimise net interest behavioural characteristics of a product differ from income.
its contractual characteristics, the behavioural Market risk in non-trading portfolios arises characteristics are assessed to determine the true principally from mismatches between the future underlying interest rate risk.
Local ALCOs are yield on assets and their funding cost, as a result of required to regularly monitor all such behavioural interest rate changes.
Analysis of this risk is assumptions and interest rate risk positions, to ensure complicated by having to make assumptions on they comply with interest rate risk limits established optionality in certain product areas, for example, by the Group Management Board.
mortgage prepayments, and from behavioural As noted above, in certain cases, the non-linear assumptions regarding the economic duration of characteristics of products cannot be adequately liabilities which are contractually repayable on captured by the risk transfer process.
For example, demand, for example, current accounts.
The both the flow from customer deposit accounts to prospective change in future net interest income alternative investment products and the precise from non-trading portfolios will be reflected in the prepayment speeds of mortgages will vary at current realisable value of these positions, should different interest rate levels.
In such circumstances, they be sold or closed prior to maturity.
In order to simulation modelling is used to identify the impact manage this risk optimally, market risk in nonof varying scenarios on valuations and net interest trading portfolios is transferred to Global Markets or income.
to separate books managed under the supervision of the local ALCO.
219 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Market risk Non-trading portfolios Sensitivity of NII Once market risk has been consolidated in The principal non-trading risks which are not Global Markets or ALCO-managed books, the net included in VAR for Global Markets see Value at exposure is typically managed through the use of risk above are detailed below.
interest rate swaps within agreed limits.
The sub-prime mortgage the lower of amortised cost and valuation.
It is, portfolio is a sub-set of this portfolio of therefore, possible for an economically hedged behaviouralised assets.
This non-trading risk is position not to be shown as such in the accounts, principally managed by controlling the sensitivity of when the hedge shows a loss but the MSRs cannot projected net interest income under varying interest be revalued above cost to reflect the related profit.
HSBCs policy is to hedge the economic risk.
VAR limits are set to control the total market VAR limits are set to control the exposure to risk exposure of HSBC Finance.
Market risk arising in the prime residential Market risk arises on fixed-rate securities issued mortgage business of HSBC Bank USA is primarily by HSBC.
These securities are managed as capital managed by a specialist function within the business, instruments and include non-cumulative preference under guidelines established by HSBC Bank USAs shares, non-cumulative perpetual preferred securities ALCO.
A range of risk management tools is applied and fixed rate subordinated debt.
to hedge the sensitivity arising from movements in Market risk arising in HSBCs insurance interest rates.
The key element of market risk within businesses is discussed in Risk management of the US prime mortgage business relates to the insurance operations on pages 228 to 242. prepayment options embedded in US prime mortgages, which affect the sensitivity of the value Market risk also arises within HSBCs defined of mortgage servicing rights MSRs to interest benefit pension schemes to the extent that the rate movements and the net interest margin on obligations of the schemes are not fully matched by mortgage assets.
MSRs represent the economic value assets with determinable cash flows.
This risk of the right to receive fees for performing specified principally derives from the pension schemes residential mortgage servicing activities.
They are holding equities against their future pension sensitive to interest rate movements because lower obligations.
The risk is that market movements in rates accelerate the prepayment speed of the equity prices could result in assets which are underlying mortgages and therefore reduce the value insufficient over time to cover the level of projected of the MSRs.
The reverse is true for rising rates.
Management, together with the trustees HSBC uses a combination of interest rate-sensitive who act on behalf of the pension scheme derivatives and debt securities to help protect the beneficiaries, assess the level of this risk using economic value of MSRs.
An accounting asymmetry reports prepared by independent external actuaries.
can arise in this area because the derivatives used to 220 The present value of HSBCs defined benefit required throughout HSBC.
The standard scenarios pension plans liabilities was US$32.2 billion at are consolidated to illustrate the combined pro forma 31 December 2006, compared with US$27.7 billion effect on HSBCs consolidated portfolio valuations at 31 December 2005.
Assets of the defined benefit and net interest income.
schemes at 31 December 2005 comprised: equity The table below sets out the impact on future net investments 30 per cent 46 per cent at 31 December interest income of an incremental 25 basis points 2005 : debt securities 56 per cent 33 per cent at parallel fall or rise in all yield curves worldwide at 31 December 2005 and other including property the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months 14 per cent 21 per cent at 31 December 2005.
Assuming no management Note 7 on the Financial Statements.
actions, a series of such rises would decrease planned net interest income for 2007 by Sensitivity of net interest income US$578 million 2006: US$525 million, while Unaudited a series of such falls would increase planned A principal part of HSBCs management of market net interest income by US$511 million risk in non-trading portfolios is to monitor the 2006: US$474 million.
These figures incorporate sensitivity of projected net interest income under the impact of any option features in the underlying varying interest rate scenarios simulation exposures.
HSBC aims, through its management of Instead of assuming that all interest rates move market risk in non-trading portfolios, to mitigate the together, HSBC groups its interest rate exposures impact of prospective interest rate movements which into currency blocs whose interest rates are could reduce future net interest income, while considered likely to move together.
The sensitivity balancing the cost of such hedging activities on the of projected net interest income, on this basis, is as current net revenue stream.
follows: For simulation modelling, businesses use a combination of scenarios relevant to local businesses and local markets and standard scenarios which are Sensitivity of projected net interest income Unaudited Rest of Hong Kong Rest of US dollar Americas dollar Asia Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in 2007 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter...................... 342 53 32 18 163 112 578 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter...................... 249 53 52 14 164 113 511 Change in 2006 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter...................... 448 74 18 28 47 114 525 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter...................... 402 72 20 39 51 112 474 The interest rate sensitivities set out in the table reality, Global Markets seeks proactively to change above are illustrative only and are based on the interest rate risk profile to minimise losses and simplified scenarios.
The figures represent the effect optimise net revenues.
The projections above also of the pro forma movements in net interest income assume that interest rates of all maturities move by based on the projected yield curve scenarios and the the same amount and, therefore, do not reflect the Groups current interest rate risk profile.
This effect, potential impact on net interest income of some rates however, does not incorporate actions that would be changing while others remain unchanged.
The taken by Global Markets or in the business units to projections make other simplifying assumptions too, mitigate the impact of this interest rate risk.
In including that all positions run to maturity.
221 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Market risk Sensitivity of NII Structural foreign exchange HSBC Holdings HSBCs exposure to the effect of movements in fell as they neared expected maturity, both of interest rates on its net interest income arise in three which contributed to the decreased sensitivity in main areas: core deposit franchises, HSBC Finance this currency to both rising and falling rates.
Growth in sterling net trading assets, the Core deposit franchises: these are exposed to funding for which is generally sourced from changes in the value of deposits raised and short-term retail deposits and recorded in net spreads on wholesale funds.
In a low interest interest income but the income from which is rate environment, the value of core deposits recorded in net trading income, has contributed increases as interest rates rise and decreases as to the increased sensitivity to both rising and interest rates fall.
This risk is asymmetrical in a falling rates in this currency.
very low interest rate environment, however, as Global Markets also reduced its exposure to there is limited room to lower deposit pricing in euro assets in non-trading portfolios which the event of interest rate reductions.
decreased the net interest income sensitivity in HSBC Finance offsets the sensitivity of the core this currency.
However, this decrease was offset deposit franchises to interest rate reductions.
by an increase in euro net trading assets.
This arises from the fact that HSBC Finance has It can be seen from the above that projecting the a substantial fixed rate, real estate secured, movement in net interest income from prospective lending portfolio which is primarily funded with changes in interest rates is a complex interaction of interest rate sensitive short-term liabilities.
In a rising rate Residual interest rate risk is managed within environment, the most critical exposures are those Global Markets.
This reflects the Groups policy managed within Global Markets.
of transferring all interest rate risk to Global HSBC monitors the sensitivity of reported Markets to be managed within defined limits reserves to interest rate movements on a monthly and with flexibility as to the instruments used.
basis by assessing the expected reduction in The main influences on the sensitivity of the valuation of available-for-sale portfolios and cash Groups net interest income to the changes in interest flow hedges due to parallel movements of plus or rates tabulated above are as follows: minus 100 basis points in all yield curves.
The table below describes the sensitivity of HSBCs reported Global Markets decreased its exposure to US reserves to these movements at the end of 2006 and dollar assets in non-trading portfolios and the 2005 and the maximum and minimum month-end average life of certain assets in HSBC Finance figures during these years: Sensitivity of reported reserves to interest rate movements Unaudited Maximum Minimum impact impact US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2006 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves.......................................... 1,558 2,015 1,358 As a percentage of total shareholders equity................................................. 1.4 % 1.9 % 1.3 % - 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves........................................... 1,456 1,944 1,270 As a percentage of total shareholders equity................................................. 1.3% 1.8% 1.2% At 31 December 2005 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves.......................................... 1,918 2,655 1,918 As a percentage of total shareholders equity................................................. 2.0% 2.8% 2.0% - 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves........................................... 1,877 2,543 1,877 As a percentage of total shareholders equity................................................. 2.0% 2.7% 2.0% 222 The sensitivities are illustrative only and are these hedges in the year ended 31 December 2006. based on simplified scenarios.
The table shows There was no material effect from exchange interest rate risk exposures arising in  on HSBCs capital ratios during the sale portfolios and from cash flow hedges which year.
These particular exposures form only a part of the HSBC Holdings Groups overall interest rate exposures.
The Audited accounting treatment under IFRSs of the Groups As a financial services holding company, HSBC remaining interest rate exposures, while Holdings has limited market risk activity.
Its economically largely offsetting the exposures activities predominantly involve maintaining shown in the above table, does not require sufficient capital resources to support the Groups revaluation movements to go to reserves.
diverse activities: allocating these capital resources across the Groups businesses: earning dividend Structural foreign exchange exposures and interest income on its investments in the Unaudited Groups businesses: providing dividend payments Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net to HSBC Holdings equity shareholders and interest investments in subsidiaries, branches or associated payments to providers of debt capital: and undertakings, the functional currencies of which maintaining a supply of short-term cash resources.
are currencies other than the US dollar.
It does not take proprietary trading positions.
Exchange differences on structural exposures The objectives of HSBC Holdings market risk are recorded in the consolidated statement of management are to minimise income statement recognised income and expense.
The main volatility arising from short-term cash balances and operating or functional currencies in which funding positions: to minimise the market risk HSBCs business is transacted are the US dollar, arising from long-term investments and long-term the Hong Kong dollar, sterling, the euro, the liabilities: and to protect distributable reserves from Mexican peso, the Brazilian real and the Chinese any adverse market risk variables.
As the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the dominant currency bloc in which Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored HSBCs operations transact business, HSBC by its Structural Positions Review Group.
Holdings prepares its consolidated financial The main market risks to which HSBC statements in US dollars.
HSBCs consolidated Holdings is exposed are interest rate risk and balance sheet is, therefore, affected by exchange foreign currency risk.
differences between the US dollar and all the nonUS dollar functional currencies of underlying HSBC Holdings is exposed to interest rate risk subsidiaries.
on debt capital investments in, and loans to, subsidiary undertakings: on debt capital issues: and HSBC hedges structural foreign exchange on short-term cash resources.
exposures only in limited circumstances.
HSBCs structural foreign exchange exposures are managed Certain loans to subsidiary undertakings of a with the primary objective of ensuring, where capital nature that are not denominated in the practical, that HSBCs consolidated capital ratios, functional currency of either the provider or the and the capital ratios of individual banking recipient are accounted for as financial assets.
subsidiaries, are protected from the effect of Changes in the carrying amount of these assets due changes in exchange rates.
This is usually achieved to exchange differences are taken directly to the by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio income statement.
These loans, and the associated of structural exposures in a given currency to riskforeign exchange exposures, are eliminated on a weighted assets denominated in that currency is Group consolidated basis.
broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary Revaluations due to foreign exchange rate in question.
movements affecting loans to subsidiary Selective hedges were in place during 2006. undertakings of a capital nature which are Hedging is undertaken using forward foreign denominated in the functional currency of either exchange contracts which are accounted for under the borrower or the recipient, are taken directly to IFRSs as hedges of a net investment in a foreign reserves.
Equity investments in subsidiary operation, or by financing with borrowings in the undertakings are accounted for on a cost basis and same currencies as the functional currencies are not revalued following movements in exchange involved.
There was no ineffectiveness arising from rates.
223 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Market risk HSBC Holdings Residual value risk Operational risk Total VAR arising within HSBC Holdings in net interest income to future changes in yield 2006 and 2005 was as follows: curves.
Audited Foreign Interest The table below sets out the effect on HSBC exchange rates Total Holdings future net interest income of an US$m US$m US$m incremental 25 basis point parallel fall or rise in all At 31 December 2006 30.8 61.4 66.4 yield curves worldwide at the beginning of each At 31 December 2005 26.1 36.1 51.4 quarter during the 12 months from 1 January 2006.
The increase in Total VAR during 2006 is due Instead of assuming that all interest rates move mainly to fixed rate debt capital issues in the together, HSBC groups its interest rate exposures period.
into currency blocs whose interest rates are considered likely to move together.
The sensitivity Unaudited of projected net interest income, on this basis, is A principal tool in the management of market described as follows: risk is the projected sensitivity of HSBC Holdings Unaudited US dollar Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in 2007 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter.. 7 6 9 8 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter.. 7 6 9 8 Change in 2006 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter... 18 5 6 7 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter... 18 5 6 7 HSBC Holdings principal exposure to changes 1 January 2007 as the funds received have generally in its net interest income from movements in interest been used to increase long-term investments in rates arises on short-term cash balances, floating rate subsidiaries.
loans advanced to subsidiary undertakings and fixed rate debt capital securities in issue which have been Residual value risk management swapped to floating rate.
Unaudited The interest rate sensitivities tabulated above are A significant part of a lessors return from operating illustrative only and are based on simplified leases is dependent upon its management of residual scenarios.
The figures represent the effect of pro value risk.
This arises from operating lease forma movements in net interest income based on transactions to the extent that the values recovered the projected yield curve scenarios and HSBC from disposing of leased assets or re-letting them at Holdings current interest rate risk profile.
They do the end of the lease terms the residual values not take into account the effect of actions that could differ from those projected at the inception of the be taken to mitigate this interest rate risk, however.
The business regularly monitors residual value exposure by reviewing the recoverability of Although new fixed rate capital issues have the residual value projected at lease inception.
This caused an increase in VAR as disclosed above, the entails considering the potential of re-letting of new issues have not materially impacted the net operating lease assets and their projected disposal interest income sensitivity for the 12 months from 224 proceeds at the end of their lease terms.
Provision is risks and to generate appropriate, regular made to the extent that the carrying values of leased management reporting: assets are impaired through residual values not being assessments are undertaken of the operational fully recoverable.
risks facing each business and the risks inherent The net book value of equipment leased to in its processes, activities and products.
Risk customers on operating leases by the Group includes assessment incorporates a regular review of projected residual values at the end of current lease identified risks to monitor significant changes: terms, to be recovered through re-letting or disposal operational risk loss data is collected and in the following periods: reported to senior management at the business Unaudited 2006 2005 unit level.
Aggregate operational risk losses are US$m US$m recorded and details of incidents above a Within 1 year............................. 200 355 materiality threshold are reported to Group Between 1-2 years..................... 414 152 Head Office.
A regular report on operational Between 2-5 years..................... 379 313 losses is made to Group Audit Committee and More than 5 years...................... 1,996 1,684 the Risk Management Meeting: and Total exposure........................... 2,989 2,504 risk mitigation, including insurance, is considered where this is cost-effective.
Operational risk management Unaudited In each of HSBCs subsidiaries, local management is responsible for implementing HSBC Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from fraud, standards on operational risk throughout their unauthorised activities, error, omission, inefficiency, operations and, where deficiencies are evident, systems failure or external events.
It is inherent in rectifying them within a reasonable timeframe.
every business organisation and covers a wide Subsidiaries acquired by HSBC are required to spectrum of issues.
assess, plan and implement the standards HSBC manages this risk through a controlsrequirements within an agreed timescale.
based environment in which processes are HSBC maintains and tests contingency facilities documented, authorisation is independent and to support operations in the event of disasters.
transactions are reconciled and monitored.
This is Additional reviews and tests are conducted in the supported by an independent programme of periodic event that any HSBC office is affected by a business reviews undertaken by Internal Audit, and by disruption event to incorporate lessons learned in the monitoring external operational risk events, which operational recovery from those circumstances.
ensure that HSBC stays in line with industry best HSBC has requested all country managers to prepare practice and takes account of lessons learned from plans for the operation of their businesses, with publicised operational failures within the financial reduced staffing levels, should a flu pandemic occur.
HSBC has codified its operational risk Legal litigation risk management process by issuing a high level Unaudited standard, supplemented by more detailed formal Each operating company is required to implement guidance.
This explains how HSBC manages policies, procedures and guidelines in respect of the operational risk by identifying, assessing, management and control of legal risk which conform monitoring, controlling and mitigating the risk, to HSBC standards.
Legal risk falls within the rectifying operational risk events, and implementing definition of operational risk and includes any additional procedures required for compliance contractual risk, legislative risk, intellectual property with local regulatory requirements.
The processes risk and litigation risk.
Litigation risk is the risk of: undertaken to manage operational risk are failing to act appropriately in response to a determined by reference to the scale and nature of claim made against any HSBC company: or each HSBC operation.
The HSBC standard covers the following: being unable to successfully defend a claim brought against any HSBC company: or operational risk management responsibility is assigned to senior management within each HSBC being unable to take action to enforce its business operation: rights through the courts.
information systems are used to record the HSBC has a dedicated global legal function identification and assessment of operational which is responsible for managing legal risk.
This 225 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Operational risk Reputational risk Sustainability risk comprises the provision of legal advice and support are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the in resisting claims and legal proceedings against HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme.
HSBC companies, including analysis of legal issues The benefits payable under the defined benefit and the management of any litigation, as well as in plans are typically a function of salary and length of respect of non-routine debt recoveries or other service.
In order to fund these benefits, sponsoring litigation against third parties.
group companies and in some instances, employees The Head Office Legal department oversees the make regular contributions in accordance with global legal function and is headed by a Group advice from actuaries and in consultation with the General Manager who reports to the Group schemes Trustees where relevant.
There are Legal departments in 40 of the benefit plans invest these contributions in a range of countries in which HSBC operates which have investments designed to meet their long-term primary responsibility for identifying and assessing liabilities.
legal risk and advising local management in their A deficit in a defined benefit plan may arise respective jurisdictions on these matters.
There is from a number of factors, including: also a regional level Legal function in each of Europe, North America, Latin America, the Middle investments delivering a return below that East and Asia-Pacific.
required to provide the projected plan benefits.
This could arise, for example, when there is a HSBC policy requires operating companies to fall in the market value of equities, or when notify the appropriate in-house Legal department increases in long-term interest rates cause a fall immediately any litigation is either threatened or in the value of fixed income securities held: commenced against the Group or an employee.
Claims which exceed US$1.5 million, must be a change in either interest rates or inflation advised immediately to the appropriate regional which causes an increase in the value of the Legal department.
Claims where the amount exceeds scheme liabilities: and US$5 million, where the action is by the regulatory scheme members living longer than expected authority, the proceedings are criminal, or any claim known as longevity risk.
that might materially affect the Groups reputation must immediately be advised to the Head Office The plans investment strategy is determined Legal department.
Such matters are then advised to in the light of the market risk inherent in the the Risk Management Meeting of the Group investments and the consequential impact on Management Board in a monthly paper.
HSBC policy also requires that an exception Ultimate responsibility for investment strategy report must be made to the local compliance function rests with either the Trustees or, in certain and escalated to the Head of Group Compliance in circumstances, a Management Committee.
The respect of any breach which has given rise to a fine degree of independence of the Trustees from HSBC and or costs levied by a court of law or regulatory differs in different jurisdictions.
For example, the body where the amount is US$1,500 or more and HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, which accounts material or significant issues are reported to the Risk for over 80 per cent of the net liability of the Management Meeting of the Group Management Groups pension plans, is overseen by a corporate Board and or the Group Audit Committee.
To assist this schemes Trustee, HSBC has proposed a number of techniques for applying the In addition, operating companies are required to Groups existing asset and liability management submit returns detailing outstanding claims which strategy and related monitoring mechanisms to the exceed US$10 million or which may be sensitive to market risks inherent in the scheme.
the reputation of HSBC for reporting to the Group Audit Committee and the Board of HSBC Holdings, These techniques include: and disclosure in the Interim Report and Annual regular assessments of funding positions: Report and Accounts if appropriate.
regular reviews of investment performance Pension risk against market benchmarks: Unaudited half-yearly reviews of the pension schemes HSBC operates a number of pension plans effect on the Groups financial statements: throughout the world, as described in Note 7 on the alignment of investment strategy with the Financial Statements.
Some of these pension plans liability profile of the pension scheme: and 226 hedging strategies to address inflation and the Internal controls are an integral part of how interest rate risk inherent within the schemes.
HSBCs manuals and statements of policy are the foundation of these In order to mitigate the risk of investments internal controls.
There is a strong process in place under-performing and the adverse effect of changes to ensure controls operate effectively.
Any in long-term interest rates and inflation, the Trustee significant failings are reported through the control has agreed to a programme of initiatives including mechanisms, internal audit and compliance functions changing the asset mix and entering into long-term to subsidiary company audit committees and to the interest rate and inflation swaps.
Group Audit Committee, which keeps under review the effectiveness of the system of internal controls Reputational risk management and reports regularly to HSBC Holdings Board.
In Unaudited addition, all HSBC businesses and major functions HSBC regularly updates its policies and procedures are required to review their control procedures and to for safeguarding against reputational and operational make regular reports about any losses arising from risks.
This is an evolutionary process which takes operational risks.
account of The Association of British Insurers guidance on best practice when responding to Sustainability risk management environmental, social and governance ESG risks.
Unaudited The safeguarding of HSBCs reputation is of Sustainability risks arise from the provision of paramount importance to its continued prosperity financial services to companies or projects which run and is the responsibility of every member of staff.
counter to the needs of sustainable development: in HSBC has always aspired to the highest standards of effect this risk arises when the environmental and conduct and, as a matter of routine, takes account of social effects outweigh economic benefits.
Within reputational risks to its business.
Reputational risks Group Head Office, a separate function, Group can arise from ESG issues or as a consequence of Sustainable Development, is mandated to manage operational risk events.
As a banking group, HSBCs these risks globally.
Its risk management good reputation depends upon the way in which it responsibilities include: conducts its business, but it can also be affected by formulating sustainability risk policies.
This the way in which clients, to whom it provides includes oversight of HSBCs Sustainability financial services, conduct themselves.
The training Risk Standards, management of the Equator of Directors on appointment includes reputational Principles for project finance lending, and matters.
sector-based sustainability policies covering Reputational risks, including ESG matters, are those sectors with high environmental or social considered and assessed by the Board, the Group impacts forestry, freshwater infrastructure, Management Board, the Risk Management Meeting, chemicals, energy, mining and metals, and subsidiary company boards, board committees defence-related lending : and or senior management during the formulation of undertaking an independent review of policy and the establishment of HSBC standards.
transactions where sustainability risks are Standards on all major aspects of business are set for assessed to be high, and supporting HSBCs HSBC and for individual subsidiaries, businesses operating companies to assess similar risks of a and functions.
These policies, which form an integral lower magnitude: part of the internal control systems, are communicated through manuals and statements of building and implementing systems-based policy and are promulgated through internal processes to ensure consistent application of communications and training.
The policies cover policies, reduce the costs of sustainability risk ESG issues and set out operational procedures in all reviews and capture management information to areas of reputational risk, including money measure and report on the effect of HSBCs laundering deterrence, environmental impact, antilending and investment activities on sustainable corruption measures and employee relations.
The development: and policy manuals address risk issues in detail and coproviding training and capacity building within operation between Head Office departments and HSBCs operating companies to ensure businesses is required to ensure a strong adherence sustainability risks are identified and mitigated to HSBCs risk management system and its on a consistent basis and to either HSBCs own corporate responsibility practices.
standards, or international standards or local regulations, whichever the higher.
227 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Insurance operations Life insurance Non-life insurance Insurance risk Risk management of insurance Term assurance provides cover in the event of operations death.
Critical illness cover provides cover in the Audited event of critical illness.
The major components of the Term assurance and other long-term contracts Within its service proposition, HSBC offers its category are term assurance and critical illness customers a wide range of insurance products, many policies written in the UK.
The principal risks are in of which complement other bank and consumer respect of mortality and morbidity.
These risks are finance products.
managed through a combination of underwriting Both life and non-life insurance is underwritten, practices, premium adjustment in light of changes in principally in the UK, Hong Kong, Mexico, Brazil, experience and reinsurance.
Linked life insurance business pays benefits to the policyholder which is typically determined by Life insurance business reference to the value of the investments supporting Audited the policy.
For linked life insurance business, the There are a number of major sub-categories of life market risk is substantially borne by policyholders.
assurance business, of which the main ones are The principal risk retained by HSBC relates to discussed below: expenses incurred in managing this product.
They are recovered by management charges deducted Life insurance contracts with discretionary from the policyholder over the lifetime of the policy.
participation features allow policyholders to However, if the policy is terminated early, participate in the profits generated from such deductions made to that point may be less than the business in addition to providing cover on death.
The costs incurred for managing the product.
This risk is largest portfolio, which is in Hong Kong, is a book mitigated by retaining the ability to apply charges on of endowment and whole-life policies, with annual early surrender.
Mortality, disability and morbidity bonuses awarded to policyholders.
Market risk is risks can also arise with this product and are managed in conjunction with other risks through the managed by applying the techniques set out above investment policy and adjustment to bonus rates.
In for non-linked lines of business.
practice this means that the majority of the market risk is borne by policyholders.
The main risk Non-life insurance business associated with this product is the value of assigned Audited assets falling below that required to support benefit payments.
HSBC manages this risk by conducting Non-life insurance contracts include motor, fire and regular actuarial investigations on the sustainability other damage, accident and health, repayment of the bonus rates.
protection and commercial and liability business.
Credit life insurance provides protection in the Within accident and health insurance, potential event of death or unemployment.
Credit life accumulations of personal accident risks are insurance business is written for banking and finance mitigated by the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance.
The insurance risk relates to mortality and Motor insurance business covers vehicle morbidity risk which is restricted to the duration of damage and liability for personal injury.
Claims experience is required to protection is required to be arranged where be monitored and premium rates adjusted necessary to avoid excessive exposure to larger accordingly.
losses, particularly those relating to personal injury Annuities are contracts providing regular claims.
payments of income from capital investment for Fire and other damage business is written in all either a fixed period or during the annuitants major markets, most significantly in Europe.
Deferred annuities are those whose predominant focus in most markets is insurance for payments to the annuitant begin at a designated home and contents while cover for selected future date while, for immediate annuities, payments commercial customers is largely written in Asian begin on inception of the policy.
The principal risks and Latin American markets.
Portfolios at risk from of annuity business relate to mortality and market catastrophic losses are required to be protected by risk, the latter arising from the need to match reinsurance in accordance with information obtained investments to the anticipated cash flow profile of from professional risk-modelling organisations.
The investment strategy seeks to match the anticipated cash flow profile, and the mortality A very limited portfolio of liability business is risk is regularly monitored.
228 Following the disposal of the non-life insurance further diversifies the risk.
Compared to non-life portfolio in Brazil in 2005, credit non-life business business, life business tends to be longer term in now represents the largest single class and is nature and frequently involves an element of savings concentrated in the US and the UK.
This business is and investment in the contract.
Separate tables are originated in conjunction with the provision of loans.
therefore provided for life and non-life business, reflecting their very distinct risk characteristics.
The Insurance risk life insurance risk table provides an analysis of Audited insurance liabilities as the best available overall measure of the insurance exposure.
The table for The principal insurance risk faced by HSBC is that non-life business uses written premiums as the cost of claims combined with acquisition and representing the best available measure of risk administration costs may exceed the aggregate exposure.
amount of premiums received and investment income.
HSBC manages its insurance risks through Both life and non-life business insurance risks the application of formal underwriting, reinsurance are controlled through high level procedures set and claims procedures designed to ensure centrally, and can be supplemented with procedures compliance with regulations.
set locally which take account of specific local market conditions and regulatory requirements.
For The Group manages insurance risk by example, central authorisation is required to write diversifying insurance business by type and certain classes of business, with restrictions applying geography and by focusing on risks that are particularly to commercial and liability non-life straightforward to manage which, in the main, are insurance.
For life business in particular, local related to core underlying banking activities for ALCOs monitor the risk exposures.
The following tables provide an analysis of the insurance risk exposures As indicated in the specific comments relating by geography and by type of business.
These tables to particular classes, use is also made of reinsurance demonstrate the Groups diversification of risk.
as a means of further mitigating exposure, in Personal lines tend to be higher volume and with particular to aggregations of catastrophe risk.
These additional benefits are contractually based on the performance of a specified pool of contracts or assets, or the profit of the company issuing the contracts.
2 In 2006, Mexico and Panama were reclassified from the North America segment to Latin America.
Audited Mortality and morbidity risks are primarily mitigated through medical underwriting and the The above table of life insurance policyholders ability in a number of cases to amend the premium in liabilities provides an overall summary of the life light of changes in experience.
The risk associated insurance activity across the Group.
For life with lapses and surrenders is generally mitigated by insurance business, insurance risk varies the application of surrender charges.
Market risk is considerably depending on the type of business.
usually mitigated through a combination of directing The principal risks are mortality, morbidity, lapse the investment policy to match liabilities and sharing and surrender, investment market risk and expense risk with policyholders.
In the case of unit-linked levels.
As indicated above, the geographic and business, market risk is generally borne by product diversity of HSBCs life insurance business policyholders, while for life business with a assists in mitigating the exposure to insurance risk.
discretionary participation feature, it is shared with This can be supplemented at the operating subsidiary policyholders through the management of bonuses.
level by additional underwriting and claims handling procedures.
Audited Underwriting risk is the risk that HSBC does not charge premiums appropriate to the cover provided The above table of non-life net written insurance and claims experience risk is the risk that portfolio premiums provides an overall summary of the experience is worse than expected.
HSBC manages non-life insurance activity of the Group.
these risks through pricing for example, imposing The main risks associated with non-life business restrictions and deductibles in the policy terms and are underwriting risk and claims experience risk.
conditions, product design, risk selection, claims 230 handling, investment strategy and reinsurance be matched with liabilities.
The majority of non-life insurance contracts for a number of lines of business, such as annuities, are renewable annually and the underwriters have is the need to match the expected pattern of cash the right to refuse renewal or to change the terms and flow which, in some cases, can extend for many conditions of the contract at the time.
The following table shows the composition of assets and liabilities and demonstrates that there was A key aspect of risk management in the an appropriate level of matching at the end of 2006. insurance business, in particular the life insurance It may not always be possible to achieve complete business, is the need to match assets and liabilities.
matching of asset and liability durations, partly Models are used to assess the impact of a range of because there is uncertainty over the receipt of all future scenarios on the value of financial assets and future premiums and partly because the duration of associated liabilities.
The results of the modelling are liabilities may exceed the duration of the longest used by ALCOs to determine how the assets should available dated fixed interest investments.
2 Term assurance includes credit life insurance.
3 Other assets comprise solvency and unencumbered assets.
4 Excludes assets, liabilities and shareholders funds of associate insurance companies Erisa S. A. and Ping An Insurance.
Financial risks HSBCs banking risk management procedures, Audited though, like the use of one day VAR measures, they are not all suitable for insurance and, therefore, are HSBCs insurance businesses are exposed to a range not applied.
of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The nature and management of Most of HSBCs insurance underwriting these risks is described below.
subsidiaries are owned and primarily managed by banking subsidiaries.
Their activities are subject to a Underwriting subsidiaries are exposed to variety of central and local level controls, and to financial risk, for example, when the proceeds from external regulatory monitoring.
In many financial assets are not sufficient to fund the jurisdictions, local regulatory requirements prescribe obligations arising from non-linked insurance and the type, quality and concentration of assets that investment contracts.
Certain insurance-related HSBCs insurance underwriting subsidiaries must activities undertaken by HSBC subsidiaries such as maintain to meet insurance liabilities.
Within each insurance broking, insurance management including subsidiary, ALCOs are responsible for the captive management, and insurance, pensions and management of financial risks within local annuities administration and intermediation, are requirements and ensure compliance with the control exposed to financial risk but not to a significant framework and risk appetite established centrally.
The following table analyses the assets held in In addition to policies provided for Group-wide HSBCs insurance underwriting subsidiaries at application, insurance underwriting subsidiaries may 31 December 2006 by type of liability, and provides have risk management procedures which reflect local a view of the exposure to financial risk: market conditions and regulatory requirements.
2 Comprises life non-linked insurance contracts and non-linked long-term investment contracts.
234 4 Comprises solvency and unencumbered assets.
5 Excludes financial assets of insurance underwriting associates, Erisa, S. A. and Ping An Insurance.
6 Comprises mainly loans and advances to banks and cash.
In life linked insurance, premium income less investment returns payable to policyholders: charges levied is invested in unit-linked funds.
and HSBC manages the financial risk of this product by a rise in market interest rates results in a holding appropriate assets in segregated funds or reduction in the value of the fixed income portfolios to which the liabilities are linked.
This securities portfolio which may result in losses if, substantially transfers the financial risk to the as a result of an increase of the level of policyholder.
The assets held to support life linked surrenders, the corresponding fixed income liabilities represented 41.7 per cent of the total securities have to be sold.
financial assets of HSBCs insurance underwriting subsidiaries at the end of 2006 2005: 35.9 per cent.
HSBC manages the interest rate risk arising from its insurance underwriting subsidiaries by Market risk establishing limits centrally.
These govern the Audited sensitivity of the net present values of expected cash flows from subsidiaries assets and liabilities to a Market risk can be further sub-categorised into one basis point parallel upward shift in the discount interest rate risk, equity risk and foreign exchange risk.
Each of these categories is discussed further curve used to calculate values.
limits is monitored by local ALCOs.
Interest rate risk is also assessed by measuring Interest rate risk the impact of defined movements in interest yield Audited curves on the profits after tax and net assets of the HSBCs insurance underwriting subsidiaries are insurance underwriting subsidiaries.
An immediate exposed to interest rate risk when there is a and permanent movement in interest yield curves as mismatch in terms of duration or yields between the at 31 December 2006 in all territories in which assets and liabilities.
Examples of interest rate risk HSBCs insurance subsidiaries operate would have exposure are as follows: the following impact on the profit for the year and net assets at that date: a fall in market interest rates results in lower yields on the assets supporting guaranteed Audited 2006 2005 Impact on Impact on profit for Impact on profit for Impact on the year net assets the year net assets US$m US$m US$m US$m 100 basis points shift in yield curves........................ 13 111 46 122 100 basis points shift in yield curves......................... 24 103 63 181 The interest rate sensitivities set out above are return guarantee risk is managed by matching assets illustrative only and employ simplified scenarios.
It held to liability requirements.
In addition, a should be noted that the effects may not be linear provision is established when analysis indicates that, and therefore the results cannot be extrapolated.
The over the life of the contracts, the returns from the sensitivities do not incorporate actions that could be designated assets may not be adequate to cover the taken by management to mitigate the effect of the related liabilities.
interest rate movements, nor do they take account of The guarantees offered to policyholders in any resultant changes in policyholder behaviour.
respect of certain insurance products are divided into The majority of interest rate exposure arises broad categories as follows: within insurance underwriting subsidiaries in the annuities in payment: UK, the US and Hong Kong.
deferred annuities: these consist of two phases HSBCs insurance underwriting subsidiaries are the savings and investing phase, and the also exposed to the risk that the yield on assets held retirement income phase: may fall short of the return guaranteed on certain contracts issued to policyholders.
This investment 235 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Insurance operations Market risk Credit risk annual return: the annual return is guaranteed to market performance: policyholders receive an be no lower that a specified rate.
This can be the investment return which is guaranteed to be investment return credited to the policyholder within a prescribed range of average investment every year referred to as a hard guarantee, or returns earned by predetermined market the average annual investment return credited to participants on the specified product.
the policyholder over the life of the policy, The table below shows, in respect of each which can be either the maturity date or the category of guarantee, the total policyholders surrender date of the contract referred to as a liabilities established for guaranteed products, the soft guarantee : range of investment returns implied by the capital: policyholders are guaranteed to receive guarantees, and the range of current yields of the no less than the premiums paid less expenses, or investment portfolios supporting the guarantees.
2 There is no specific investment return implied by market performance guarantees because the guarantees are expressed as lying within prescribed ranges of average market returns.
HSBC manages the annual return and capital For market performance guarantee business in guarantees of annuities by seeking to match their risk the table above, HSBC seeks to match the exposure with bonds which produce a return at least composition of the investment portfolio with the equal to the investment return implied by the composition of the average investment portfolio of guarantee.
Provision is made for anticipated the other market participants.
These are published by shortfalls, generally calculated by recourse to stress the regulator monthly.
Liabilities have also been testing of the likely outcomes.
established to cover any potential shortfall.
The main risk arising from these guarantees is Equity risk reinvestment risk, which arises primarily when the Audited duration of the policy extends beyond the maturity dates of the available bonds.
Future reinvestment HSBC manages the equity risk arising from its yields may be less than the investment rates implied holdings of equity securities centrally by setting by the guarantee.
limits on the maximum market value of equities that each insurance underwriting subsidiary may hold.
A certain number of these products have been Equity risk is also monitored by estimating the effect discontinued, including the deferred annuity of predetermined movements in equity prices on the portfolio in HSBC Finance where, as highlighted in profit and total net assets of the insurance the above table, the current portfolio yield is less underwriting subsidiaries.
For this block of business, a purchase accounting reserve was made when HSBC The following table illustrates the impact on the Finance was acquired to mitigate the impact of the aggregated profit for the year and net assets of a disparity in yields.
In addition, in the UK there is an reasonably possible 10 per cent variance in equity annuity portfolio where the risk is fully reinsured.
prices: 236 Audited 2006 2005 Impact on Impact on profit for Impact on profit for Impact on the year net assets the year net assets US$m US$m US$m US$m 10 per cent increase in equity prices............................ 93 95 61 62 10 per cent decrease in equity prices............................ 86 87 45 46 These equity sensitivities are illustrative only other than the currencies of the liabilities.
It should be noted HSBC manages the foreign exchange risk that the effects may not be linear and therefore the arising from its insurance underwriting subsidiaries results cannot be extrapolated.
They do not allow for centrally, by establishing limits on the net positions the effect of management actions which may by currency and the total net short position that each mitigate the equity price decline, nor for any insurance subsidiary may hold.
The risk is also resultant changes, such as in policyholder behaviour, monitored by tracking the effect of predetermined that might accompany such a fall.
exchange differences on the total profit and net assets of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries.
Foreign exchange risk Audited The following table illustrates the impact on the HSBCs insurance underwriting subsidiaries are aggregated profit for the year and net assets of a exposed to this risk when the assets supporting reasonably possible 10 per cent variance in the US insurance liabilities are denominated in currencies dollar exchange rate: Audited 2006 2005 Impact on Impact on profit for Impact on profit for Impact on the year net assets the year net assets US$m US$m US$m US$m 10 per cent increase in US dollar exchange rate.......... 10 10 5 5 10 per cent decrease in US dollar exchange rate......... 10 10 5 5 These sensitivities to movements in the US guidelines are set at Group level.
Local subsidiary dollar are for illustrative purposes only and employ ALCOs set investment parameters appropriate to the simplified scenarios applied to US dollar positions local environment within the framework of the only.
It should be noted that the effects may not be Group guidelines and review investment linear and therefore the results of the stress testing performance and compliance with the guidelines.
They do not allow for The assessment of the creditworthiness of issuers actions that could be taken by management to and counterparties is based primarily upon mitigate the effect of exchange differences, nor for internationally recognised credit ratings and other any subsequent changes in policyholder behaviour.
In addition, to reduce the impact of individual entity or industry sector Credit risk failures, centrally determined issuer and industry Audited sector concentration limits are complied with.
Investment credit exposures are aggregated and In the context of the Groups insurance underwriting reported to HSBCs Group Credit and Risk function.
business, the exposure to credit risk primarily arises from the invested assets held and the reinsurance Credit quality contracts.
HSBCs insurance underwriting Audited subsidiaries are exposed to credit risk in respect of their investment portfolios and their reinsurance The following table presents the analysis of treasury transactions.
bills, other eligible bills and debt securities within HSBCs insurance business by rating agency Management of HSBCs underwriting insurance designation based on Standard and Poors ratings or subsidiaries is responsible for the quality and equivalent: performance of the investment portfolios.
2 Excludes treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities held by insurance underwriting associates Erisa, S. A. and Ping An Insurance.
Audited The split of liabilities ceded to reinsurers and outstanding reinsurance recoveries, analysed by Standard Credit risk also arises when part of the insurance and Poors reinsurance credit rating data or their risk incurred by HSBC is assumed by reinsurers.
The equivalent, was as follows: credit risk exposure for reinsurers is monitored centrally.
Liquidity risk with the settlement of claims expected to occur Audited within one year of the period of risk.
There is a greater spread of anticipated duration for the life It is an inherent characteristic of almost all insurance business where, in a large proportion of cases, the contracts that there is uncertainty over the amount liquidity risk is borne in conjunction with and the timing of settlement of claims liabilities that policyholders wholly in the case of unit-linked may arise, and this leads to liquidity risk.
To ensure adequate cash resources are the management of this exposure, estimates are available to meet short-term requirements that can prepared for most lines of insurance business of cash arise as a consequence of large claims events, the flows expected to arise from insurance funds at the insurance operations have an objective to manage balance sheet date.
The estimates always include liquidity on a prudent basis.
future renewal premiums and new business cash flows.
2 In most cases, policyholders have the option to terminate their contracts at any time and receive the surrender values of their policies.
These may be significantly lower than the amounts shown above.
Present value of in-force long-term assess the ability of the life business book to insurance business PVIF withstand adverse developments.
A key feature of Audited the life insurance business is the importance of managing the assets, liabilities and risks in a The HSBC life insurance business is accounted for coordinated fashion rather than individually.
This using the embedded value approach, which, inter reflects the greater interdependence of these three alia, provides a comprehensive framework for the elements for life insurance than is generally the case evaluation of insurance and related risks.
The value for non-life insurance.
of the PVIF asset at 31 December 2006 was US$1,549 million 2005: US$1,400 million.
The The following table shows the effect on the present value of the shareholders interest in the PVIF of reasonably possible changes in the main profits expected to emerge from the book of in-force economic assumptions across all insurance policies at 31 December can be stress-tested to underwriting subsidiaries: Sensitivity of PVIF to changes in economic assumptions Audited PVIF at 31 December 2006 2005 US$m US$m 100 basis points shift in risk-free rate............................................................................................ 130 90 100 basis points shift in risk-free rate............................................................................................ 141 100 100 basis points shift in risk discount rate..................................................................................... 64 54 100 basis points shift in risk discount rate..................................................................................... 70 57 Audited when consequential changes to investment returns, risk discount rate and bonus rates are also The effects on PVIF shown above are incorporated.
In practice, certain correlations illustrative only and employ simplified scenarios.
It between the above items may be observed.
In should be noted that the effects may not be linear addition the scenarios do not incorporate actions that and so the results of the stress-testing cannot be could be taken by management to mitigate effects extrapolated.
In calculating the various scenarios, all nor do they take account of consequential changes in other assumptions are left unchanged except for policyholder behaviour.
testing the effect of the shift in the risk-free rate, 241 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Insurance operations PVIF Capital management The following table shows the movements net assets of insurance operations: recorded during the year in respect of PVIF and the Movements in PVIF and net assets of insurance operations Audited 2006 2005 Net assets Net assets of insurance of insurance PVIF operations Total PVIF operations Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January........................................................ 1,400 3,582 4,982 1,493 2,695 4,188 1 Value of new business written during the year.
2 Experience variances include the effect of the difference between demographic, expense and persistency assumptions used in the previous PVIF calculation and actual experience observed during the year.
Non-economic assumptions changes in conditions at 31 December 2006 across Audited all insurance underwriting subsidiaries was as follows: The sensitivity of profit for the year to, and net assets at, 31 December 2006 to reasonably possible 2006 2005 Impact on Impact on profit for Impact on profit for Impact on the year net assets the year net assets US$m US$m US$m US$m 20% increase in claims costs........................................ 118 118 82 78 20% decrease in claims costs....................................... 118 118 81 78 10% increase in mortality and or morbidity rates........ 8 8 8 9 10% decrease in mortality and or morbidity rates....... 15 15 18 18 50% increase in lapse rates........................................... 10 10 17 14 50% decrease in lapse rates.......................................... 22 22 56 51 10% increase in expense rates...................................... 23 23 20 20 10% decrease in expense rates..................................... 23 23 19 19 242 Capital management and allocation subordinated liabilities.
Capital also includes the collective impairment allowances held in respect of Capital management loans and advances.
Audited It is HSBCs policy to maintain a strong capital base Capital measurement and allocation Audited to support the development of its business and to meet regulatory capital requirements at all times.
In The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis addition, the level of capital held by HSBC Holdings and, as such, receives information on the capital and other major subsidiaries, particularly HSBC adequacy of, and sets capital requirements for, Finance, is determined by its rating targets.
Individual banking subsidiaries currently uses a benchmark minimum tier 1 capital are directly regulated by their local banking ratio of 8.25 per cent for the purposes of its longsupervisors, who set and monitor their capital term capital planning.
HSBC recognises the impact adequacy requirements.
In most jurisdictions, nonon shareholder returns of the level of equity capital banking financial subsidiaries are also subject to the employed within HSBC and seeks to maintain a supervision and capital requirements of local prudent balance between the advantages and regulatory authorities.
Since 1988, when the flexibility afforded by a strong capital position and governors of the Group of Ten central banks agreed the higher returns on equity possible with greater to guidelines for the international convergence of leverage.
capital measurement and standards, known as the Basel Capital Accord Basel I, the banking An annual Group capital plan is prepared and supervisors of HSBCs major banking subsidiaries approved by the Board with the objective of have exercised capital adequacy supervision within a maintaining both the optimal amount of capital and broadly similar framework.
the mix between the different components of capital.
The Groups policy is to hold capital in a range of In implementing the EUs Banking different forms and from diverse sources and all Consolidation Directive, the FSA requires each bank capital raising is agreed with major subsidiaries as and banking group to maintain an individually part of their individual and the Groups capital prescribed ratio of total capital to risk-weighted management process.
Major subsidiaries would assets taking into account both balance sheet assets usually raise their own non-equity tier 1 capital and and off-balance sheet transactions.
Under the EUs subordinated debt in accordance with the Groups Capital Adequacy Directive, the FSA allows banks guidelines regarding market and investor to calculate capital requirements for market risk in concentration, cost, market conditions, timing and the trading book using VAR techniques.
The subordinated debt requirements complied with the FSAs capital adequacy of other HSBC companies are met internally.
Each subsidiary manages its own capital within HSBCs capital is divided into two tiers: the context of the approved annual Group capital Tier 1 capital comprises shareholders funds, plan, which determines levels of risk-weighted asset innovative tier 1 securities and minority growth and the optimal amount and mix of capital interests in tier 1 capital, after adjusting for required to support planned business growth.
As part items reflected in shareholders funds which are of HSBCs capital management policy, capital treated differently for the purposes of capital generated in excess of planned requirements is adequacy.
The book values of goodwill and returned to HSBC Holdings, normally by way of intangible assets are deducted in arriving at dividends.
HSBC Holdings is primarily a provider of Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated equity capital to its subsidiaries.
These investments loan capital, collective impairment allowances, are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings own minority and other interests in tier 2 capital and capital issuance and profit retentions.
HSBC unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance equity instruments held as available-for-sale.
between the composition of its capital and that of its Tier 2 capital also includes reserves arising from investment in subsidiaries.
The principal forms of capital are included in Various limits are applied to elements of the the following balances on the consolidated balance capital base.
The amount of innovative tier 1 sheet: called up share capital, share premium securities cannot exceed 15 per cent of overall tier 1 account, other reserves, retained earnings, and capital, qualifying tier 2 capital cannot exceed tier 1 243 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Capital management Capital measurement capital, and qualifying term subordinated loan approach, allows banks to calculate their credit risk capital may not exceed 50 per cent of tier 1 capital.
regulatory capital requirement on the basis of their There are also limitations on the amount of internal assessment of the probability that a collective impairment allowances which may be counterparty will default, but with quantification of included as part of tier 2 capital.
From the total of exposure and loss estimates being subject to standard tier 1 and tier 2 capital are deducted the carrying supervisory parameters.
Finally, the internal ratingsamounts of unconsolidated investments, investments based advanced approach, will allow banks to use in the capital of banks, and certain regulatory items.
their own internal assessment of not only the Changes to the definition of capital came into force probability of default but also the quantification of on 1 January 2007 and further details are provided exposure at default and loss given default.
Basel II also introduces capital requirements for Banking operations are categorised as either operational risk and, again, contains three levels of trading book or banking book and risk-weighted sophistication.
The capital required under the basic assets are determined accordingly.
Banking book indicator approach will be a simple percentage of risk-weighted assets are measured by means of a gross revenues, whereas under the standardised hierarchy of risk weightings classified according to approach it will be one of three different percentages the nature of each asset and counterparty, taking into of gross revenues allocated to each of eight defined account any eligible collateral or guarantees.
Finally, the advanced measurement Banking book off-balance sheet items giving rise to approach uses banks own statistical analysis and credit, foreign exchange or interest rate risk are modelling of operational risk data to determine assigned weights appropriate to the category of the capital requirements.
counterparty, taking into account any eligible The EU Capital Requirements Directive collateral or guarantees.
Trading book risk-weighted CRD recast the Banking Consolidation Directive assets are determined by taking into account marketand the Capital Adequacy Directive and will be the related risks such as foreign exchange, interest rate means by which Basel II will be implemented in the and equity position risks, and counterparty risk.
The CRD was formally adopted by the Council and European Parliament on 14 June 2006 and it Future developments requires EU Member States to bring implementing Basel II provisions into force on 1 January 2007.
In the case Audited of the provisions relating to the implementation of the internal ratings-based advanced approach to The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision the credit risk and the advanced measurement approach Basel Committee has published a new framework to operational risk, implementation becomes for calculating minimum capital requirements.
Known as Basel II, it will replace the 1988 Basel Capital Accord.
Basel II is structured around three In October 2006, the FSA published the General pillars: minimum capital requirements, supervisory Prudential Sourcebook GENPRU and the review process and market discipline.
The Prudential Sourcebook for Banks, Building Societies supervisory objectives for Basel II are to promote and Investment Firms BIPRU, which take effect safety and soundness in the financial system and from 1 January 2007 and implement the CRD in the maintain at least the current overall level of capital UK.
GENPRU introduces changes to the definition in the system: enhance competitive equality: of capital and the methodology for calculating constitute a more comprehensive approach to capital ratios.
Changes include relaxation of the rules addressing risks: and focus on internationally active regarding the deduction of investments in other banks.
banks capital and proportional rather than full consolidation of associates.
In addition, certain With respect to pillar one minimum capital deductions from capital, previously taken from total requirements, Basel II provides three approaches, of capital will be deducted 50 per cent each from tier 1 increasing sophistication, to the calculation of credit and tier 2 for Pillar 3 disclosure purposes.
The most basic, the standardised approach, requires banks to use external BIPRU introduces the Basel II requirements credit ratings to determine the risk weightings for the calculation of capital requirements as well applied to rated counterparties, and groups other as changes to the consolidation regime, the counterparties into broad categories and applies trading book definition and various ancillary standardised risk weightings to these categories.
In respect of counterparty risk in the the next level, the internal ratings-based foundation trading book, certain changes have been 244 introduced with effect from 1 January 2007.
FSA and the local host regulators in the other Otherwise, transitional provisions regarding the countries in which HSBC operates interact will be implementation of capital requirements key factors in completing implementation of calculations mean that, in general, unless firms Basel II.
As these factors emerge, HSBC notify the FSA to the contrary, they continue to continues to assess the effect of Basel II on its apply the existing capital requirements capital ratios.
Thereafter, One example of continuing regulatory HSBC proposes to adopt the IRB advanced uncertainty relates to the US, where banking approach for the majority of its business.
A rollout supervisory authorities have yet to produce final plan is in place to extend coverage of the rules.
They are now expected to be published in advanced approach over the succeeding three 2007.
The US authorities have decided to apply the years, leaving a small residue of exposures on the advanced credit and operational risk methodologies standardised approach.
For individual banking of Basel II only to the largest US banks and holding subsidiaries, the timing and manner of companies, although other banks may decide to opt implementation of Basel II varies by jurisdiction in.
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HSBCs and the requirements are set by local banking highest level US bank holding company in the US, supervisors.
The application of Basel II across which holds all HSBCs major US operating HSBCs geographically diverse businesses, which subsidiaries and HSBC Canada has been mandated operate in a large number of different regulatory to comply with these rules.
For smaller US banks, environments, represents a significant logistical the US banking authorities are considering applying and technological challenge, and an extensive an updated version of the existing Basel I rules programme of implementation projects is dubbed Basel Ia.
The Basel Ia rules may also be currently in progress.
Basel II permits local used in the determination of Basel II capital floors discretion in a number of areas for determination during the transition period 2009-11. by local regulators.
of Grupo Banistmo as well as the weakening of the US dollar against the pound sterling and the euro.
Tier 1 capital increased by US$13.4 billion.
Retained profits contributed US$7.0 billion, shares Total risk-weighted assets increased by issued, including shares issued in lieu of dividends, US$112 billion, or 13.5 per cent.
The increase contributed US$3.5 billion and exchange differences mainly reflects growth in the loan book and trading added US$4.6 billion.
These increases were partly positions.
At constant currency, risk-weighted asset offset by an increase in goodwill and intangible growth was 8.9 per cent.
assets, which are deducted from capital, of 246 Risk-weighted assets by principal subsidiary of risk-weighted assets by principal subsidiary.
The Unaudited risk-weighted assets are calculated using FSA rules and exclude intra-HSBC items.
