Recognition In September 2005, Sky launched its first annual recognition awards Team Sky that enabled all employees to nominate and acknowledge their colleagues for demonstrating the Sky values of being tuned in, inviting, irrepressible and fun.
This encouraged people to learn more about Skys values and demonstrate behaviour which reflected them.
Training and development Our training and development portfolio includes an introduction programme, including a health and safety e-learning module: workplace training: a management essentials programme for all managers: and coaching, leadership, broadcasting and professional skills development.
We also had a major roll out of HD training in 2006 with over 1,200 employees trained in this area.
We offer Sky News and Finance traineeship schemes, and support our employees in working towards external qualifications including modern apprenticeships and SVQ qualifications.
Externally, the Group is represented at board level on Skillset and within the TV Sector Skills Committee, which develops training strategy and development opportunities across the industry, has worked with the Broadcasting Standards Training Regulator to create an appropriate evaluation grid for the industry for training identified in the TV Skills strategy, and has served on the Diploma Development Partnership to help shape the design of the Creative and Media Diploma for 14-19 year olds.
Additionally, Sky has developed partnerships with media-based academic and training bodies, schools and colleges to provide guidance and support.
We have started an International Work Experience Development Programme where high performing individuals are able to gain experiences in other organisations globally for 1-2 weeks and return with information and skills to share with colleagues.
At Sky, employees also have the opportunity through Sky Talent to develop careers in television presenting or programme writing.
In 2006, Skys employees were again offered the opportunity to broaden their potential and win either of these categories.
Sky presenters, producers and programme commissioning specialists make up the judging panel, and winners will be offered TV presenting courses, slots on Sky programmes or the development of their programme idea with an independent production company.
Occupational Health We continue to foster a culture of safety and wellbeing amongst all employees.
We have strengthened support services and health and wellbeing initiatives and include safety responsibilities in job descriptions.
Skys Occupational Health team has worked collaboratively with the Sky Forum to ensure matters of health, safety and wellbeing are addressed.
We have revitalised interest in a range of wellbeing subjects using an Employee Health and Wellbeing guide which was distributed to all employees, along with the launch of a new wellbeing intranet site for all Sky employees to access health-related information easily.
The Group has also launched a new 24 7 employee assistance programme, as well as a comprehensive external confidential website that provides access to health information and fact sheets on a wide range of topics.
We also provide free counselling and continue to provide stress risk and workstation assessments.
We have people working a range of shifts, whom we proactively support by increasing employees and managers knowledge about the different demands that working shifts brings.
We began a programme to offer each engineer the option of a personalised health assessment with a feedback profile to help target problem areas.
Communication We are continually seeking ways of engaging with our employees, which ensures we focus on the issues that matter to the business and our people.
The key focus of our communication is to share the business vision and goals in a way which involves our people.
event gave 500 leaders, communicators and key contributors the opportunity to meet over 200 Sky customers directly and hear what really matters to them.
This was the beginning of a cascade on Skys vision and goals to all our people.
Along with the Sky Forum, which enables two-way communication between management and people at all levels from across Sky, we communicate through a variety of channels to reach our diverse locations and job roles, including the Groups employee magazines Vision and Digitalk for Sky engineers : our re-launched intranet: global e-mails: leadership forums: and department road shows.
RISK FACTORS This section describes the significant risk factors affecting our business.
These should be read in conjunction with our long-term operating targets, which are set out in Financial Review Introduction Overview and Recent Developments.
These risks could materially adversely affect any or all of our business, financial condition, prospects, liquidity or results of operations.
Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not aware or which we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, liquidity or results of operations.
24 Our business is heavily regulated and changes in regulations, changes in interpretation of existing regulations or failure to obtain required regulatory approvals or licences could adversely affect our ability to operate or compete effectively.
We are subject to regulation primarily under UK and European Union legislation.
The regimes which affect our business include broadcasting, telecommunications, competition anti-trust, gambling and taxation laws and regulations.
Relevant authorities may introduce additional or new regulations applicable to our business.
Our business and business prospects could be adversely affected by the introduction of new laws, policies or regulations or changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, policies and regulations.
Changes in regulations relating to one or more of licensing requirements, access requirements, programming transmission and spectrum specifications, consumer protection, taxation, or other aspects of our business, or that of any of our competitors, could have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of our operations.
The European Commissions investigation into the joint sale of broadcasting rights to FAPL football matches concluded with the European Commissions adoption, in March 2006, of a decision rendering certain commitments offered by the FAPL to the European Commission legally binding.
The commitments are to remain in force until June 2013 and relate to the auction of media rights by the FAPL for the 2007 08 to 2009 10 seasons and its subsequent auction of rights.
The commitments provide, among other things, for the FAPL to sell live TV rights in six balanced packages, with no one bidder being allowed to buy all six packages, and for packages to be sold to the highest standalone bidder.
The Group has been awarded four of the six packages of rights to show live coverage of FAPL football matches in the UK for the 2007 08 to 2009 10 seasons.
The Commissions decision is binding on the FAPL for the duration of the commitments, but does not bind national competition authorities or national courts.
The decision does not address competition issues which may arise from contracts for rights in relation to FAPL matches from the 2007 08 seasons onwards: any such issues could be assessed separately under the competition rules at either European or national level.
We are not yet able to assess whether, or the extent to which, these developments will have a material effect on the Group.
We cannot assure you that we will succeed in obtaining all requisite approvals and licences in the future for our operations without the imposition of restrictions which may have an adverse consequence to us, nor that compliance issues will not be raised in respect of our operations conducted prior to the date of this filing.
We operate in a highly competitive environment that is subject to rapid change and we must continue to invest and adapt to remain competitive.
We face competition from a broad range of companies engaged in communications and entertainment services, including cable television providers, digital and analogue terrestrial television providers, telecommunications providers, internet service providers, home entertainment products companies, betting and gaming companies, companies developing new technologies and other suppliers of news, information, sports and entertainment, as well as other providers of interactive services.
Our competitors increasingly include communication and entertainment providers who are offering services beyond those with which they are traditionally associated, either through engaging in new areas or due to the trend towards convergence of the means of delivery of different communication and entertainment services.
Our competitors include organisations which are publicly funded, in whole or in part, and which fulfil a public service broadcasting mandate.
Were such mandate to be changed, this could lead to an increase in the strength of competition from these organisations.
Although we have continued to develop our services through technological innovation and in licensing, acquiring and producing a broad range of content, we cannot predict with certainty the changes that may occur in the future which may affect the competitiveness of our businesses.
In particular, the means of delivering various of our and or competing services may be subject to rapid technological change.
Our competitors positions may be strengthened by an increase in the capacity of, or developments in, the means of delivery which they use to provide their services.
Viewers with a Sky digibox or any other personal video recorder or viewers of on-demand programming may choose not to view advertising including that on Sky Channels and Sky Distributed Channels.
We therefore cannot assure you that our advertising revenues will not be negatively impacted by this behaviour.
We also cannot assure you that advertising revenues for Sky Channels currently offered on other platforms will not be negatively impacted in the future by the offering of similar devices by other operators.
Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to continue to acquire, commission and produce, programming content that is attractive to our subscribers.
The programme content and third party programme services we have licensed from others are subject to fixed term contracts which will expire or may terminate early.
We cannot assure you that programme content or third party programme services whether on a renewal or otherwise will be available to us at all or on acceptable financial or other terms including in relation to technical matters such as encryption, territorial limitation and copy protection.
Similarly, we cannot assure you that such programme content or programme services will be attractive to our customers, even if so available.
The future demand and speed of take up of our DTH service, and our proposed broadband and telephony services will depend upon our ability to offer them to our customers at competitive prices, competitive pressures from competing services which include both paid-for and free-to-air offerings, and our ability to create demand for our products and to attract and retain customers through a wide range of marketing activities.
The future demand and speed of take up of our services will also depend upon our ability to package our content attractively.
In addition, we operate in a geographic region which has experienced sustained economic growth for a number of years.
The effect of a possible slowdown in the rate of economic growth and or a decline in consumer confidence on our ability to continue to attract and retain subscribers, is uncertain.
We therefore BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 25 cannot assure you that the current or future marketing and other activities we undertake will succeed in generating sufficient demand to achieve our operating targets.
On 3 March 2006, it was announced that ntl and Telewest had completed a merger.
On 4 July 2006, it was announced that the acquisition of Virgin Mobile by ntl:Telewest had completed.
ntl:Telewest has also entered into an exclusive licence agreement with Virgin Enterprises Limited for the use of the Virgin brand for ntl:Telewests consumer business.
At this stage, we are not yet able to assess whether the merger of ntl and Telewest, the acquisition by ntl:Telewest of Virgin Mobile, or the rebranding of the ntl:Telewest consumer business under the Virgin brand, will have a material effect on our business.
We cannot guarantee that the anticipated implementation and operation of our broadband services and network will be fully achieved, including within the proposed timescale or budget.
Following our acquisition of Easynet in January 2006 for 223 million, in July 2006, we announced the launch of our broadband service, to include capital expenditure investment in our broadband network and services of approximately 250 million in the first two years.
It is intended that our broadband network, which currently covers 28% of UK households, will be expanded to cover approximately 70% of all UK households by the end of calendar 2007.
In common with other projects of this scale, there is a risk that the implementation and future operation of our broadband services, and operation and expansion of our broadband network, may not be carried out as currently envisaged, including within the proposed timescale or budget.
Our business is reliant on technology which is subject to the risk of failure, change and development.
We are dependent upon satellites which are subject to significant risks that may prevent or impair proper commercial operations, including defects, destruction or damage, and incorrect orbital placement.
If we, or other broadcasters who broadcast channels on our DTH platform, were unable to obtain sufficient satellite transponder capacity in the future, or our contracts with satellite providers were terminated, this would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
Similarly, loss of the transmissions from satellites that are already operational, or failure of our transmission systems or uplinking facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.
We are dependent on complex technologies in other parts of our business, including our CRM systems, broadcast and conditional access systems, advertising sales, supply chain management systems and our telecoms network infrastructure, including WAN, LLU, CISCO core IP network, Marconi Alcatel optical network and complex application servers.
In terms of the delivery of our broadcast services, we are reliant on a third party telecommunications infrastructure to distribute the content between Osterley and our primary and secondary uplink sites at Chilworth and Fair Oak.
In addition, our network and other operational systems are subject to several risks that are outside our control, such as the risk of damage to software and hardware resulting from fire and flood, power loss, natural disasters, and general transmission failures caused by a number of additional factors.
Any failure of our technologies, network or other operational systems or hardware or software that results in significant interruptions to our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business.
There is a large existing population of digital satellite reception equipment used to receive our services, including digiboxes and ancillary equipment, in which we have made a significant investment and which is owned by our customers other than the smart cards and the software in the digiboxes, to which we retain title.
Were a significant proportion of this equipment to suffer failure, or were the equipment to be rendered either redundant or obsolete by other technology or other requirements or by the mandatory imposition of incompatible technology, or should we need to or wish to upgrade significantly the existing population of digiboxes and or ancillary equipment with replacement equipment, this could have a material adverse effect on our business.
The deployed digiboxes contain finite memory resources that are used by the operating system and other software components such as the conditional access system, EPG, and interactive applications.
We have, to date, been able to carry out software downloads from time to time to reconfigure the memory utilisation in these digiboxes in order to accommodate additional and increasingly complex services.
If this course of action was not available to us, we may be limited in our ability to upgrade the services available via our digiboxes, such as interactive services and the EPG.
Failure of key suppliers could affect our ability to operate our business.
We are reliant on a consistent and effective supply chain to meet our business plan commitments and to continue to maintain our network.
A failure to meet our requirements or delays in products from suppliers, discontinuance of products or services, or deteriorating support quality, may impact on our ability to deliver our products and services.
No assurance can be made that a broad economic failure or decline in quality of equipment suppliers in our industry will not occur.
Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our business.
We use a series of BT Openreach products within our LLU plans.
These are the colocation space and associated facilities to house the central office equipment co-mingling, backhaul circuits to connect that equipment to our network BES and finally individual copper lines that go between the 26
