PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The London Stock Exchange operates a business-wide risk management process to identify potential threats to the achievement of its objectives, assess their relative likelihood and impact, and manage them through appropriate controls and mitigating actions.
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Exchanges long-term performance, not all of which are wholly within our control.
Some of the issues influencing our performance are macro-economic and may affect the performance of businesses generally, but others are specific to our business.
The following section contains our view of the important risks and uncertainties currently facing the Exchange.
In addition, the main risks arising from the Exchanges use of financial instruments are discussed in note 28 to the financial statements below.
Our response to corporate events during the year is addressed in the Chairmans Statement.
RISKS RELATING TO THE INDUSTRY ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT Conditions in the savings market can affect investment in securities.
These conditions are influenced by a variety of factors, and the Exchange is not in a position to control these factors directly.
However, the Exchange continuously monitors trends and developments and engages in dialogue with regulatory and governmental authorities at both national and EU level.
STRUCTURE OF THE INDUSTRY In response to the gradual liberalisation of world financial markets, participants in the securities market are undergoing a significant level of corporate restructuring.
In particular, a high proportion of business in the securities market is becoming increasingly concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and the Exchanges revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers.
Over recent years the Exchange has introduced an enhanced Customer Relationship Management process.
RISKS RELATING TO THE BUSINESS MARKET ACTIVITY Exchange revenues and profitability are dependent upon the levels of activity on its markets.
A slowdown in trading activity or a shift in liquidity could lead to a drop in trading volumes, fewer initial public offerings and a drop in the number of information terminals receiving the Exchanges data.
Such a slowdown might adversely affect Exchange revenues.
Based on trends in activity on its markets, the Exchange has no reason to believe such a slowdown is likely to occur medium-term.
RECOGNISED INVESTMENT EXCHANGE RIE RECOGNITION The Exchange is an authorised RIE, regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
In order to obtain RIE status, the Exchange had to satisfy the Recognition Requirements.
If it fails to continue to meet the Recognition Requirements, or to comply with any obligation to which it is subject under the Financial Services and Markets Act, then the FSA ultimately has the power to revoke its RIE status.
The Exchange has comprehensive procedures in place to ensure continued compliance with all Recognition Requirements and the Directors are not aware of any circumstances which would result in the FSA revoking the Exchanges RIE status.
22 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 COMPETITIVE PRESSURE The terms under which business is conducted in the UK have been further liberalised by recent EU directives, presenting the opportunity to conduct and publish trades in different ways and on alternative venues.
The Exchange also faces competition from other exchanges as well as from electronic communication networks and alternative trading systems including a move towards greater systematic internalisation by member firms.
Whilst these developments might reduce the flow of business to the Exchange, they also provide an opportunity for the Exchange to develop new products and services.
IT INFRASTRUCTURE The Exchange is currently renewing its IT infrastructure with the aim of providing its customers with the fastest, most efficient and technologically advanced equities market in the world by the first half of 2007 the Technology Roadmap.
Major IT replacements of this kind can have high levels of risk attached to them.
The Exchange, in conjunction with Accenture, the Exchanges primary IT service provider, is employing rigorous software design methodologies, logistics planning and assembly and testing regimes to minimise this risk.
Infolect, which represents an important part of the project, was successfully implemented in September 2005. FINANCING In order to develop its business, the Board expects that the Exchanges capital requirements will be met from existing cash resources, internally generated funds and access to lending facilities.
However, capital requirements may vary from those currently planned and additional funds may be raised through equity or debt financings or from other sources.
Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to holders of ordinary shares and any debt financing, if available, may require restrictions to be placed on future financing and operating activities.
PRICING RISK In 2003, following an inquiry into its issuer fees, the Exchange reduced its annual and admission fees for AIM and annual fees for the Main Market, and provided an undertaking to the Office of Fair Trading OFT not to increase UK annual and admission fees for the UK Main Market and AIM by more than the increase in the ONS service sector wage index from April 2003 to April 2007.
Restrictions on pricing may continue beyond 2007.
EMPLOYEES The success of the Exchange depends, inter alia, upon the support of its employees and, in particular, the Executive Directors and senior managers within business divisions.
The loss of key members of the Exchanges staff could have a material adverse effect on its performance.
To prevent this, key employees are appropriately incentivised and succession plans are in place.
23 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006
