11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:06 Page 64 64 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Business review Online gaming regulation Our risks In executing the business strategy, the Group monitors and seeks advice in respect of each of the relevant regulatory environments as part of an ongoing operational risk and regulatory compliance assessment process.
Whilst in most countries, the regulatory regime for land-based gaming operations is well-established, the same Key risks cannot be said for gaming on the internet.
PartyGaming operates in a relatively new and While some countries believe that regulation is highly dynamic business sector and faces a the preferred solution, others appear to be in number of challenges in the day-to-day running favour of prohibition.
Many of these risks are similar to those faced by most commercial enterprises: On 13 October 2006, PartyGaming stopped competitive pressures, management and customers in the US from playing or making execution risk, changing consumer tastes and deposits on any of the Groups real-money sites.
However, there are also a number of issues Whilst many other operators continue to take bets that are particular to companies operating in the from US customers, we made our decision out online gaming industry, as well as risks that are of respect for the clear policy choice made by specifically relevant to PartyGaming.
Key industrythe US Congress through passage of the UIGEA.
specific risks include changes to the regulation of PartyGaming respectfully disagrees with that policy online gaming around the world and changes in determination and believes that internet gaming technology while company specific risks include, offered by regulated, reputable operators remains for example, changes in the Groups strategy or the right approach to this industry sector.
organisation that may result in a less favourable Notwithstanding the Groups actions, the tax structure.
aggressive public statements made by certain US regulatory authorities suggest that there remains a residual risk of an adverse impact arising from the Group having had customers in the US prior to the enactment of the UIGEA.
Furthermore, the Group is aware of press speculation that certain US regulatory authorities have made enquiries of banks and other financial advisers that have had involvement with the internet gaming industry.
Certain customary indemnities have been given by the Company to its advisers in connection with the Companys initial public offering in June 2005 and other assignments, and claims under such indemnities cannot be ruled out.
The Group has not, however, received notice of any such claim to date.
11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:06 Page 65 65 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Business review As highlighted in the Review of 2006 earlier in this Technology document, the World Trade Organisation and the As a purely online business, the integrity and EU Commissioner in charge of Internal Markets operation of PartyGamings computer and and Services have already challenged certain communication systems are critical for the ongoing jurisdictions, including the US and several Member success of the Group.
Ensuring that appropriate States within the EU, regarding their stance towards protections are in place to detect any intrusion online gaming.
What further steps may be taken, as well as preventative measures such that the if any, and the possible implications for the online operating systems are safeguarded against gaming industry is not yet clear.
hackers, email viruses, distributed denial of service DDoS attacks and other forms of cyber crime Such a landscape is confusing, causes uncertainty is essential.
Any failure in these measures could and affects the Groups ability to operate result in a decline in user traffic and impact the effectively.
What is clear is that the application or Groups operations, reputation and financial enforcement of gaming laws or regulations, a performance.
As part of the systems infrastructure, change in sentiment by regulatory authorities or the Group regularly reviews its system security the taking of any action by relevant authorities using internal and external audit procedures to that restricts the processing of payments relating to verify the continued effectiveness of the Groups online gaming transactions or the advertising of security systems.
online gaming can each have a major impact on customer volumes and revenue.
Just as important as protecting the existing infrastructure is being able to continuously improve The Board continues to believe that the that infrastructure with software and hardware development of a modern regulatory framework, upgrades to cater for increasing player traffic, like those in Gibraltar, the UK, Alderney and as well as introducing new games and additional Antigua is the most sensible way forward.
Any failure to Online gaming is already enjoyed by millions implement such upgrades successfully might of adults around the world and the market is affect both the quality of our gaming products expected to grow substantially.
PartyGaming and services and the experience of our customers.
believes regulation can strike the right balance Managing this risk is complex and involves a between providing adults with a safe and secure complete development process, including gaming environment online whilst ensuring that detailed project design and specification as well appropriate protections are put in place to as rigorous internal and external testing of the protect children and the vulnerable.
What is product release to ensure that the fairness of the also clear from the recent experience in the US game is unaffected and that all aspects are is that prohibition only drives customers to seek functioning as expected.
Finally, following the alternative, less transparent sources of online general release to customers, the Group continues games from businesses that are less likely to to audit the performance of the product on provide the protections afforded by publicly-listed an ongoing basis through both internal and and regulated companies.
11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:06 Page 66 66 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Business review Taxation Our risks The Group aims to ensure that each Group company is resident for tax purposes only in the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated or domiciled and that it has no taxable permanent establishments or other taxable presence in any other jurisdiction.
The Groups customers are located worldwide.
Revenues earned from As well as controlling the functionality of the games customers located in a particular jurisdiction may themselves, the Group has to rely on third-party give rise to further taxes in that jurisdiction.
If such bandwidth providers, communications carriers, taxes are levied, either on the basis of existing and data centres for key aspects of the process law or the current practice of any tax authority, of providing gaming products and services to our or by reason of a change in law or practice, customers.
Any failure in one or more of these then this may have a material adverse effect providers could result in the loss of revenue or on the amount of tax payable by the Group.
To help mitigate this risk, in 2006 the Group successfully established a new disaster In calculating the tax provision, in addition to any recovery and business continuity centre in amounts due in respect of jurisdictions in which Guernsey, operating under licence by the Group companies are currently incorporated or Alderney Gambling Control Commission.
While the domiciled, a provision has been made to cover centre has been rigorously tested on a number of the Directors best estimate of additional taxation occasions, there can be no assurance that, if exposures which may arise.
required, any failure and or associated relocation The Company and its Gibraltar subsidiaries are to Guernsey would not have a consequent impact registered as exempt companies for Gibraltar tax on the Groups business performance.
As a result, the Group pays relatively little tax in Gibraltar.
The exempt company tax regime is due to be phased out by the end of 2010.
The Government of Gibraltar has reiterated its commitment to the continuation of Gibraltars fiscal competitiveness stating that it intends to seek to introduce alternative arrangements to the exempt companies legislation by the end of 2010 which will meet EU requirements and which will be designed to retain Gibraltars fiscal competitiveness.
A change in control or activity of any Group company which is a Gibraltar exempt company would trigger the loss of its tax exempt status in Gibraltar, although this is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the overall tax rate of the Group.
Responsible gaming PartyGaming leads the industry in responsible gaming practices.
We operate a strict adults only policy and provide a range of customer led controls on session play and spend to ensure our players can enjoy our games in a controlled way.... to old timer
