Risk factors We operate in a challenging environment and face a number of Nonetheless, increased speculation regarding health risks associated risks.
Our financial condition or results of operations could be with mobile telephone handsets and transmission facilities or any materially adversely affected should any of these risks arise.
subsequent substantiation of such risks could have a material adverse effect on our business.
We operate in an industry in which innovation can render our products and services uncompetitive or obsolete in a short time.
The historical activities of our insurance subsidiary may result in To mitigate this risk, we invest in new technologies such as the next material claims.
generation network in the UK or local loop unbundling through Pender is our Isle of Man domiciled captive insurance company.
However, these investments may prove to be unsuccessful Since its establishment in 1990 it underwrote global insurances for or may themselves be superseded by newer technology.
both Cable & Wireless and, in later years, third party companies.
It ceased to underwrite any new business from April 2003.
Our operations depend crucially on complex networks and systems and on the ability to access similar networks belonging Pender purchased reinsurance for many of the risks it underwrote, to others.
including, from 2003, reinsurance via a telecommunications insurance Failures in these networks or systems may mean that we cannot industry mutual the Mutual.
Pender remains liable for all policies serve our customers, exposing us to potential claims and loss it underwrote in the first instance notwithstanding the reinsurances.
of those customers and to costs of repair or modification of the systems.
The significant key risks identified are as follows: 3.
Changes in regulation and government policy or lack of failure of reinsurance including reinsurances secured via the appropriate enforcement of those regulations may result, for Mutual post-April 2003 : example, in changes to the range or price of services offered or deterioration in known claims: and may introduce competitors into the markets in which we operate.
notification of new claims under long tail losses occurring Our ability to provide telecommunications services depends on liability policies.
receiving and maintaining government licences and authorisations.
We believe that we have all licences material to the running of our If any of these risks materialise Pender may be subject to significant business.
It is possible that from time to time, as further products liabilities which its assets may not be sufficient to meet.
Moreover, and services are deployed or changed, additional licences or there can be no assurance that these arrangements will not have a authorisations will be required.
material adverse effect on our financial condition.
We may be required to sell our businesses at below market 8.
Changes in the pension regulatory framework, volatility in the value or impair assets if licences and concessions to operate are financial markets or a weakening of our financial strength may withdrawn or not renewed.
require us to provide further cash funding to our pension funds.
A number of our International businesses operate under licences or We currently maintain a number of defined benefit plans in the UK concession agreements.
These typically set out the basis of renewal and overseas, which cover various categories of employees and and the terms for transfer of the business should renewal not occur.
The principal scheme is in the UK.
We are obliged to make The terms of the transfer vary and may not provide for a transfer at contributions to the schemes based on triennial actuarial valuations market value.
which are based on long-term assumptions.
In the short-term, the actual experience of the schemes can vary significantly from the We expect to renew our licences on normal commercial terms as long-term assumptions and may result in significant additional they fall due.
However, should a licence not be renewed or be contributions.
Ongoing changes to the regulatory environment may renewed on unattractive commercial terms we may be forced to also have an impact on funding requirements.
A weakening of our exit the business on unfavourable terms or to impair some or all of financial strength may lead the Trustees and Actuary to seek further the assets of that business.
additional contributions or, in extremis, to determine that it is in the best interests of the members as a whole to wind up the scheme.
We may lose revenue if unlicensed operators are able to gain If we are required to make significant contributions to fund the access to our network.
defined benefit plans, our financial position could be materially and In certain markets where we operate, unlicensed operators may adversely affected and the cash flow available for other uses may be seek to gain access to our network unlawfully without paying for significantly reduced.
To the extent that our efforts to prevent the unlawful conduct are not wholly successful, we may lose 9.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates in the countries where revenue and our financial performance may be adversely impacted.
we operate may adversely affect our reported results and financial condition.
Mobile communications devices may pose health risks.
A significant percentage of our business is conducted outside the Scientific research on mobile telephone handsets and transmission UK.
We are thus exposed to movements in exchange rates in facilities and health has been reviewed by a number of independent relation to foreign currency receipts and payments, dividend and expert scientific panels.
None of these panels has concluded that other income from foreign subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign the use of mobile telephone handsets is harmful to health.
subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of foreign investments particularly in respect of the US dollar exchange rate.
2005 06 Annual report 39 Group matters Group matters Risk factors We manage our exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and, where appropriate, use forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposure.
To the extent that this hedging activity does not cover the exposure, then our results and financial condition may be negatively impacted by currency exchange rate movements.
Our withdrawal from the US domestic market may result in unforeseen claims against us.
Although we have taken measures to reduce our exposure to third party claims resulting from our withdrawal from the US domestic market through a Chapter 11 bankruptcy process, there remains a risk that we may be subject to claims from certain third party suppliers against guarantees and letters of credit given by us to the purchaser of the US business should that purchaser not be able to honour the related financial commitments.
In addition, there is no guarantee that we will not be the target of claims from third parties who believe they might have contractual or other rights enforceable directly against us.
40 2005 06 Annual report Group matters 42 Board of Directors Board and 44 Directors report governance 48 Corporate governance report 53 Report of the Audit committee 55 Directors remuneration report 66 Statement of Directors responsibilities 2005 06 Annual report 41 Board and governance
