The Merchants Trust PLC Financial Risk Management The Company is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets The Company nances its operations through a mixture of share and financial liabilities.
The most important components of its capital, retained earnings and long term borrowings.
financial risk are market price risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The risk prole and the Foreign currency risk policies adopted to manage risk did not change materially during Foreign currency risk is the risk of movement in the values of either the current or previous year.
overseas financial instruments as a result of uctuations in exchange rates.
The narrative below explains the different types of risks the Company may face.
Numerical disclosures are listed in Note 19 to The Company invests predominantly in UK listed securities.
Accordingly, the capital value of the Companys investments are not materially affected by exchange rate movements.
This information is given so that investors in the Company can decide for themselves whether their investment is high or low risk.
As a proportion of the investments pay their dividends in US dollars, It allows them to assess what kind of impact the use of financial income can be subject to exchange rate risk.
instruments investments, cash overdraft and borrowings will have on the performance of the entity.
Short term debtors and creditors Credit risk are not considered to be financial instruments.
They have been Credit risk is the risk of default by a counterparty.
included at the bottom of the numerical disclosure in Note 19 a merely to enable users of the Accounts to reconcile the summary In February 2000 the Company commenced stock lending in order provided to total net assets per the balance sheet.
The risk of default is managed by holding collateral, in the form of letters of credit and FTSE 100 As an investment trust, the Company invests in securities for the equities, amounting to 105% of the mid market value of the stock long term.
Accordingly it is, and has been throughout the year on loan.
The level of collateral required is recalculated on a daily under review, the Companys policy that no short term trading in basis.
investments or other financial instruments shall be undertaken.
Liquidity risk Market price risk Liquidity risk relates to the capacity to meet liabilities.
Market price risk arises mainly from the uncertainty about future prices of financial instruments held.
It represents the potential loss The Companys assets mainly comprise realisable securities, which the Company might suffer through holding market positions in the can be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary.
Short term face of price movements.
The Board meets regularly to consider the exibility can be achieved through the use of overdraft facilities, asset allocation of the portfolio in order to evaluate the risk where necessary.
associated with particular industry sectors.
A dedicated fund manager has the responsibility for monitoring the existing portfolio selection in accordance with the Companys investment objectives and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward prole.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk of movements in the value of financial instruments as a result of uctuations in interest rates.
The Company invests predominantly in equities, the values of which are not directly affected by changes in prevailing market interest rates.
Therefore there is minimal exposure to interest rate risk.
