RISK FACTORS As an oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations concentrated in South Asia, Cairn is, by virtue of the nature of its business and the countries in which it operates, subject to a variety of business risks.
Outlined below is a description of the principal risk factors that may affect the Groups business.
Such risk factors are not intended to be presented in any assumed order of priority.
Any of the risks, as well as the other risks and uncertainties discussed in this document, could have a material adverse effect on our business.
In addition, the risks set out below may not be exhaustive and additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to the Company, or which the Company currently deems immaterial, may arise or become material in the future.
The risk factors should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary note to shareholders in relation to forward-looking statements set out on page 124.
The Companys performance is dependent upon the performance of Cairn India and the Capricorn Group Following the IPO, the Companys principal assets are its holding of shares in Cairn India and its shareholding in Capricorn.
Accordingly the Companys performance and market price are dependent upon the performance of Cairn India and Capricorn.
Any failure by Cairn India or by Capricorn to successfully develop their respective businesses could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business.
The Companys material shareholding in Cairn India represents a significant proportion of the Companys value.
Any fluctuations in the market price of Cairn Indias share price may have a direct effect on the Companys share price.
Project Assessment and Delivery There are a number of steps prior to a decision by management to invest in or sanction a project or new venture.
Risks during this pre-sanction period include technical, engineering, commercial and regulatory risks.
Typical risks include over or under-estimation of crude oil and natural gas initially in place and recoverable, inadequate front end engineering design, not securing appropriate long-term commercial agreements or, where required, applicable governmental or regulatory consents, permits, licences or approvals.
This can cause delays to commercialisation of reserves and this may have a material effect on the Groups medium-to long-term cash flow and income.
Project delivery is subject to CR technical, commercial, contractor, and economic risks.
Projects can be delayed or unsuccessful for many reasons, including cost and time overruns of projects under construction, availability, competence and capability of human resources and contractors, mechanical and technical difficulties and infrastructure constraints.
In addition, some development projects may require the use of new and advanced technologies or produce hydrocarbons from challenging reservoirs, which can exacerbate such problems.
Production from the Mangala field is currently scheduled to start during 2009.
Delays in completing the engineering design, construction, fabrication, installation or commissioning activities may lead to the start of production being delayed.
Transportation infrastructure at the Cairn India Groups operations in Rajasthan may not be constructed on time by the GoIs nominee or, once constructed, may not be operated successfully and, if necessary, the Cairn India Groups involvement in midstream development options will increase the scale and complexity of its development project in Rajasthan.
Furthermore, the crude oil at the northern fields in Block RJ-ON-90 1 is characterised by its viscous nature in the reservoir and its propensity, inside or outside the reservoir, to solidify at higher temperatures than is commonly the case for most producing oil fields.
This presents both extraction and transportation risks.
The development and production plans for the northern fields are also dependent upon the Cairn India Group obtaining a reliable fuel supply for power generation and heating of the facilities.
The development plans for the northern fields assume, or are expected to assume, the use of EOR techniques to extract an additional incremental percentage of the estimated oil in place in the reservoirs.
There is a risk that Cairn India Group may not be able to use enhanced oil recovery techniques successfully.
These risks include sourcing and purchasing large quantities of the types of polymer that would be required for the EOR techniques, and ensuring their efficient transportation to the fields, maintaining the polymer at the correct temperature in the reservoir, polymer fouling of the surface facilities might occur, leading to a deterioration of the operating efficiency of the processing plant and the use of such a recovery technique will significantly increase the operational expenditure.
Operations The Groups revenues are dependent on the continued performance of its operating facilities.
Operational risks include maintaining asset integrity, which can be affected by a number of factors including improper operating and maintenance regimes and plant availability, which can be significantly impacted by unplanned shutdowns and or equipment failure, the performance by and sharing of risk between JV partners and the location of some of the Groups operations which may expose them to natural hazards such as cyclones, flooding and earthquakes.
If these risks materialise, the Group may not be able to meet its planned HSE standards, output levels or unit operating costs.
These factors may have an effect on cost control, or a potentially material impact on the Groups reputation and the results of the Groups operations.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 37 RISK FACTORS CONTINUED Future production of crude oil and natural gas is dependent on the Group finding or acquiring, and developing further reserves.
The Group has exploration licences for various interests in India, Bangladesh and Nepal.
Environmental, geological and infrastructural conditions in many of these areas are challenging and costs can be high.
The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain.
As a result, the Group may incur cost overruns or may be required to curtail, delay or cancel drilling operations because of many factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in geological formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, the need for compliance with environmental regulations, governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment.
If the Group fails to conduct successful exploration activities or to acquire assets holding proved reserves, the Groups proved reserves will decline as it extracts and depletes existing reserves.
The Groups future production depends significantly upon its success in finding or acquiring and developing additional reserves.
If the Group is unsuccessful, it may not meet its production targets, and its total proved reserves and production will decline, which could adversely affect the results of its operations and financial condition.
Commercial The Cairn India Group may not be able to obtain competitive market prices for its crude oil sales from its fields in Rajasthan.
The Cairn India Group is obliged to sell 100% of its crude oil from the Block RJ-ON-90 1 to the GoI or its nominee, and the GoI is obliged to buy the Cairn India Groups crude oil pursuant to the PSC.
The purchase price will be based upon a basket of crude oils to be decided between the Cairn India Group and the nominee based upon a mixture and weighting of crude oils that would produce a quality similar to the quality of crude oil expected to be produced by the Cairn India Group.
There can be no assurance that the basket of crude oils used to determine the price of the Cairn India Groups crude oil sales to the nominee will result in a value approximating the price used by the Cairn India Group in its development and financial planning.
Under the gas sales agreement for the Sangu gas field in Bangladesh, the price payable to the Capricorn Group for the supplied gas is capped at a price which equates to approximately $21 per barrel Brent.
As the price is presently at that cap, the price payable to the Capricorn Group will not increase in line with increases in oil price.
The operating costs of the Sangu gas field have however increased as a result of recent high oil prices.
There is a risk therefore that further increases in the price of oil may further increase operating costs at the Sangu gas field and that, accordingly, whilst operating costs will ultimately be recoverable under the PSC cost recovery mechanism, the Capricorn Groups margin under the sales agreement may be further reduced.
Exchange Rates, Interest Rates and Currency Controls The Groups cash flow, income statement and balance sheet are reported in US dollars and may be significantly affected by fluctuations in exchange rates.
Shares in Cairn India are, and any dividends which may become payable in respect of them will be, denominated in Rupees.
The material holding in Cairn India by the Group, whose principal currency is not Rupees, exposes the Group to foreign currency exchange rate risk.
The Groups financing costs may be significantly affected by interest rate volatility.
The Group is also exposed to liquidity risks, including risks associated with refinancing borrowings as they mature, the risk that borrowing facilities are not available to draw down and the risk that financial assets cannot readily be converted to cash without loss of value.
Furthermore, the Government of India currently operates certain controls on currency exports which restrict the transfer from India of Rupees.
There is a risk therefore that any dividend payments paid by Cairn India to the Group could be subject to such restrictions.
Regulation The Group may incur material costs in complying with, or as a result of, safety, health and environmental laws and regulations.
The Group is subject to a broad range of safety, health and environmental laws and regulations that impose controls on, among other things, the storage, handling and transportation of petroleum products, employee exposure to hazardous substances and other aspects of its operations.
The Group may also incur environmental liabilities for environmental damage caused by acts or omissions of any third party contractors.
Further, the adoption of new safety, health and environmental laws and regulations, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments in the future may require additional capital expenditures or result in the Group incurring additional operating expenses in order to maintain current or future operations.
These laws and regulations are increasingly stringent and may in the future create substantial environmental compliance or remediation liabilities and costs.
38 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 RISK FACTORS CONTINUED If the Group fails to meet environmental requirements or has a major accident or disaster, it may also be subject to administrative, civil and criminal proceedings by governmental authorities, as well as civil proceedings by environmental groups and other individuals, which could result in fines, penalties and damages against it as well as orders that could limit, halt or even cause closure of its operations, any of which could have material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.
The Cairn India Group is also subject to limits as to how much it may borrow under both the Indian Companies Act 1956 and its articles of association.
Indian law further restricts the ability of the Group to dispose of shares in Cairn India for certain periods of time.
The Cairn India Group has not yet received certain consents and approvals required for its business, including its development plans and operating activities in Rajasthan.
Substantial costs or disruptions to the business could be incurred if these cannot be obtained, renewed or maintained.
Furthermore, the Capricorn Group is still waiting for amendments to its PSCs in Blocks 5 and 10 in Bangladesh to be formalised in writing, further details of which are set out on page 70.
Market Place The Groups results of operations and financial condition are subject to fluctuations in oil and gas prices.
The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive.
Due to, amongst other things, the significant increases in the international oil price, the Group is competing in a highly competitive market for the resources required to conduct its ongoing business, in particular with regard to the engagement of leading third party service providers and the purchase of capital equipment.
Coupled with relatively limited resources and expertise in India, in particular in the area surrounding Rajasthan, this has resulted in a strain on the specialist engineering and other services that the Group needs to develop its fields in Rajasthan.
The remaining development costs, as well as the Groups current target of 2009 for first commercial production from the Mangala field, are subject to these risks of raw material and equipment shortages, or price increases above those anticipated and an inability to procure or design the engineering services required.
Insurance Consistent with good industry practice, a comprehensive insurance programme is maintained to mitigate significant losses.
There is a risk, however, that the Groups insurance policies may not be sufficient in covering all losses which it or any third parties may suffer.
If the Group suffers an event for which it is not adequately insured, there is a risk that it could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.
The programme is also subject to certain limits, deductibles and other terms and conditions.
Human Resources The Groups performance and its ability to mitigate those risk factors within its control depend on the skills and efforts of its employees and management teams across the Group.
Future success will depend to a large extent on the Groups continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified personnel.
If the Group is unable to attract or retain its managerial and technical personnel, its business and operations may be adversely affected.
Attracting and retaining top quality managerial talent has become a serious challenge facing companies in the oil and gas exploration and production sector.
Failure to have or retain key positions and functions in place could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
Corporate Responsibility The Group recognises that applying its CR Guiding Principles in all activities is essential in maintaining its licence to operate and business reputation.
CR risks occur when any part of the business fails to implement these Guiding Principles.
CR risks that could affect the Groups ability to deliver projects on time and within budget include inadequate stakeholder engagement, failure to put in place appropriate controls to mitigate environmental and social impacts, not having adequate processes in place to protect human rights in activities in our sphere of influence and the ineffective implementation of health and safety policies.
War, Terrorist Attack and Natural Disasters The Groups business may be adversely affected by a war, terrorist attack, natural disaster or other catastrophe, particularly given the location of the Groups assets.
In recent times, terrorist attacks in India, Bangladesh and Nepal have become more prevalent.
In addition, unusually heavy rains during the 2006 monsoon season in the states of Rajasthan and Gujarat triggered floods which caused widespread destruction in these states.
The area in which the Mangala field is located experienced severe flooding in August 2006, which directly affected existing well-sites and roads and the site of the proposed crude oil terminal and associated facilities is located in the flood-affected area.
While all reasonable precautions are being taken to mitigate the impact of such flooding, there is a risk that this may occur again with a potentially detrimental effect on construction, fabrication and installation activities and for the future operation of the oil processing terminal, any pipeline and associated facilities in the Rajasthan Block or other fields in which Cairn India has an interest, which may have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 39 RISK FACTORS CONTINUED Furthermore, the Capricorn Groups interests in Bangladesh are exposed to risks from extreme weather conditions, which are often experienced in South Asia.
In addition, the low-lying nature of much of Bangladesh puts it at risk from any rise in sea levels as a result of global warming.
Any damage to the Capricorn Groups infrastructure in Bangladesh or disruption or suspension of production in particular from the Sangu gas field could have a material adverse affect on the financial condition and or operating results of the Capricorn Group.
Political Climate The Group is active in a number of overseas markets, and may be affected by a change in fiscal policy in respect of, or which impacts upon, these markets.
The Group cannot predict the impact of future changes in fiscal policy in the countries and markets in which it operates.
Amendments to existing legislation particularly increases in tax rates or withdrawals of tax relief, the introduction of new tax laws such as the imposition of import and or export quotas or import and or export tariffs and changes from time to time in the interpretation of existing tax laws could materially adversely affect the Groups reputation, financial condition and or operating results.
In particular, the Cairn India Group may be liable to pay cess under the Indian Oil Industry Development Act 1974 OIDA cess in relation to the production of crude oil from Rajasthan.
After receiving an order confirming its liability to pay OIDA cess on pit oil in March 2006, the Cairn India Group appealed this decision with the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal in New Delhi, which is currently pending.
Any requirement to pay OIDA cess on commercial production of crude oil from Block RJ-ON-90 1 whether or not recoverable pursuant to the terms of the PSC may have a material adverse effect on the Cairn India Groups financial condition and results of operations.
In respect of the political climate in Nepal, despite the recent ceasefire and ongoing negotiations between the Government of Nepal and Maoist rebels in Nepal, the political situation in that country is extremely sensitive.
The Group has sought to preserve its contractual position with respect to its Nepalese interests by serving force majeure notices on the Government of Nepal.
There is a risk that the situation in Nepal may never improve sufficiently to enable the Group to recommence its activities in that country.
In addition, there is a risk that if the Government of Nepal changes as a result of the recent political instability in that country, the new government may seek to disclaim the Groups interests in Nepal.
Cash Flow Due to its concentration on exploration, appraisal and development activities, the Cairn India and Capricorn Groups business is expected to be cash flow negative.
As a result, the Group expects to finance its operations from cash generated from its producing fields, from the cash proceeds received in respect of the IPO and from debt made available to it.
If production from any of the Groups currently producing fields is interrupted or suspended, this would have a further impact on the Groups cash flow.
The Group is also exposed to credit risks if counterparties fail to meet their payment obligations.
40 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
