58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:43 Page 37 Provident Financial plc 37 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Business review continued Principal risks Risk management Financial risk Tax risk Reputational risk Risk management is the process The groups main financial risks and The group is subject to the effect In a financial services business of identifying the key business risks policies are discussed in detail in our of future changes in tax legislation such as ours, operating in a that the group faces, establishing financial review on pages 44 to 45. and practice in any tax jurisdiction competitive marketplace, where appropriate and cost effective The main risks are interest rate affecting any business within integrity, customer trust and controls that mitigate the financial risk, currency risk, credit risk and the group and such changes could confidence are important, impact of such risks where possible, liquidity risk.
materially and adversely affect reputational risk is a significant and ensuring that an appropriate the groups ability to achieve its risk.
This risk could arise as a result monitoring and reporting structure Financial risks are mitigated by business objectives.
of adverse publicity in connection is in place.
the group having in place a formal with, for example, the perception reporting structure for agreeing Tax legislation in the Central and of high headline credit charges A risk advisory committee has been strategy, risk assessment, planning, Eastern European jurisdictions in in our home credit and credit card established to consider the nature budgets and reporting operating which the group operates has been products.
Such adverse publicity and extent of the risks facing results with clearly defined areas subject to a significant change due could derive from the activities the group, keep them under review, of responsibility where necessary.
Coupled of legislators, pressure groups and monitor the controls in place to Group-wide corporate policies are with this, a home credit business the press in spite of high levels of mitigate the risks and notify the board also in place covering a number of has a number of unusual features satisfaction amongst our customers.
of changes in the status of risks.
areas such as accounting policies, which make it unclear as to how tax Such unfavourable publicity treasury management and taxation authorities will tax certain aspects could in turn lead to increased amongst others.
Each business of the operations.
Certainty of tax pressure for changes to regulation Our risks reports monthly to the board and treatment can only be obtained of the consumer credit industry in is also required to produce a budget once the operation has been subject the relevant market.
The group is exposed to a wide range and a budget update each year for to a tax audit and these take place of risks.
These can be categorised review and approval by the board.
irregularly, typically once every five The board mitigates this risk in as financial, tax, reputational, to six years.
These features lead a number of ways.
At both group regulatory, strategic or operational A number of specialist committees to a general level of tax uncertainty and an individual business level risks and are inherent in many of such as the audit committee and overseas.
there are established procedures our businesses.
Since each of these the treasury committee review for dealing with issues that might businesses is managed separately and control specific aspects of the Tax risks in the group are mitigated damage the companys reputation.
and there is little or no integration groups financial risks.
Of particular in a number of ways.
The group Also, an active communication of systems, management or importance is the management employs an in-house tax team which programme to foster a better customers, risk management is of credit risk across the group.
is responsible for managing the understanding of the groups carried out by the local management Each business therefore has groups tax affairs.
Also, advice from products is co-ordinated at group of each business.
This is reviewed a formal credit committee which external professional advisors is level and is targeted at relevant on a regular basis by senior group reviews credit performance and sought for all material transactions individuals and organisations.
management and is overseen by suggests amendments to policies and, if possible, tax treatments are Continued investment in our the risk advisory committee.
agreed in advance with the relevant community affairs programme Although the risk of unexpected authorities.
helps to foster good relations with The groups independent internal credit losses is low, given the shortcustomers and the areas in which auditors, Ernst & Young, review the term, low value diversified nature of they live.
Further information risk process each year as part of our loan portfolio, as a responsible on this scheme can be found in the their internal audit work programme lender, it is in the best interests of Corporate Responsibility report on and use the risk information provided both the group and its customers to pages 29 to 36. to focus their audit work on the key maintain control of bad debt levels.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:43 Page 38 38 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Business review continued Principal risks Regulatory risk The groups motor insurance and In the UK, the Department of Business development credit card businesses are subject to Trade and Industry is currently in To achieve and sustain growth, the The groups operations are subject regulation by the Financial Services the process of implementing the group needs to offer products that to various forms of regulation in the Authority FSA, and the group Consumer Credit Act 2006, which meet the needs of its target markets jurisdictions in which it conducts its itself, excluding the motor insurance will bring about key changes to and develop new geographical business.
Regulatory authorities business, is also subject to the UK regulatory framework for markets in addition to its current have broad jurisdiction over many consolidated supervision by the FSA consumer credit.
The group will also need aspects of the groups business, as Provident Financial is the parent for a Directive on Consumer to introduce new products in order including capital adequacy company of Vanquis Bank.
Credit by the European Commission to retain existing customers whose requirements, product construction, is currently awaiting political needs have evolved and to attract marketing and selling practices, All financial services companies agreement in the Council of new customers for whom the existing advertising and terms of business.
regulated by the FSA face the risk Ministers, following which it will need product offering or methods of that the FSA could find that they to be approved by the European acquisition are unattractive.
This These regulations may change have failed to comply with applicable Parliament.
Since the Directive is expansion into new areas carries risk, and, although the group monitors rules and guidance or have not still in draft form, it is not possible especially when entering into a new developments and works actively with undertaken corrective action as to be certain of its impact on geographic market, notwithstanding relevant people and organisations required.
To mitigate this risk, the the groups business until a final any research or pilot undertaken to ensure its businesses are better group ensures that its FSA regulated form of the Directive and details in that market before committing understood, it cannot predict with businesses dedicate sufficient of implementing legislation have to any expansion of the business.
certainty future initiatives or changes.
resources to their compliance been published.
programmes, seek to be proactive To mitigate the risk of entering a As with other financial services in dealing with the FSA in an open new geographic area, the group institutions, modifications to existing and co-operative way and Strategic risk utilises a country selection model.
regulation affecting the industry and endeavour to respond to regulatory The country selection process is markets in which the group operates enquiries in an appropriate manner.
Competition driven through a series of screening may materially and adversely There is the risk of an increasing level tests.
These tests are conducted affect the groups operations and Both Vanquis Bank and the group of competition from existing or new initially by UK-based desk research, development if the group could not are required by the FSA to maintain competitors in the small sum credit but then followed up through effectively respond to such changes.
certain levels of capital to risk markets in which the group operates.
more detailed in-country research weighted assets.
Failure to do so An increase in competition will place where a country looks an attractive Potential legal and regulatory could cause Vanquis Banks greater pressure upon the group to proposition.
These tests are designed changes in relation to the home banking licence to be revoked, or retain its existing customers, attract to identify those countries that credit business could include: a requirement for the group to new customers and to recruit and have the potential to develop into increase levels of regulatory capital.
retain high calibre staff and agents.
a profitable market for home credit the introduction of further, To mitigate this risk, it is group policy and will cover the following areas: or changes to existing, interest to maintain a healthy margin over To ensure the group remains rate restrictions: the regulatory capital requirements competitive, key market drivers, such population and potential set by the FSA and review regulatory as use of other credit products in our market size: changes to the laws or capital requirements as an integral target market, are regularly reviewed regulations on, or prohibition part of the budgeting and forecasting through market research and other legislation: of, home-collected lending: process.
Levels of regulatory data sources and competition capital are reported in the monthly monitoring is carried out via market safety and corruption: more restrictive product group results and are monitored research, operational management regulation: by the groups treasury committee.
The group economic situation: uses this information to develop more stringent consumer products to meet the changing credit political situation: credit legislation: needs of both existing and potential new customers, review the success of funding: and employment and health the different customer acquisition and safety legislation: or methods and products, and provide ability to repay.
more targeted communications to broader grounds for challenges existing customers.
to the commercial practices or product terms and conditions by customers.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:43 Page 39 Provident Financial plc 39 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Finally, if these tests are passed, a Operational risk Such dependency on technology Health and safety pilot operation will be opened and, exposes the group to risk in the The health and safety of all our only if successful, will full roll-out Recruiting and retaining event of any form of damage, employees and agents is a key occur.
highly-skilled management interruption or failure.
The group concern for the group.
In addition, and employees has detailed disaster recovery adverse publicity in the event of The groups credit card business, The group is dependent on existing procedures and policies in place personal injury to staff or agents Vanquis Bank, is at an early stage of key executives and its senior to which are designed to allow the could affect the groups ability to its development.
There is a risk that, middle management in order group to continue trading in the retain and recruit staff either particularly given increasing personal to sustain, develop and grow its event of such an occurrence.
These generally or in particular areas and debt levels in the UK, the business business and there can be no policies and procedures are tested may damage the reputation, brands does not become economically assurances that these employees on a regular basis.
and profitability of the group.
To mitigate this risk, the will remain with the group.
also lead to a change in regulations performance of the business is Political and economic instability relating to health and safety which closely monitored by the board and It is expected that the group will in operating markets may require the group to review its underwriting criteria and pricing are continue to grow and will expand into The group currently operates business model.
The group invests regularly reviewed and amended new products and markets.
Expansion in several countries, including a considerable amount of time where required.
can place significant strain on emerging economies, and is planning ensuring staff and agents are safety existing management, employees, further international expansion conscious, including incorporating The motor insurance business seeks systems and resources, and, as into new markets.
Each country agent safety into the agent induction to limit its exposure to insurance the group continues to grow, it will of operation will be exposed to its programme, providing information losses through a number of loss need to recruit and retain additional own specific risks such as currency on personal safety and holding staff limitation methods including internal suitable personnel, as well as fluctuations, exchange control and agent safety weeks.
risk management processes and retaining key existing staff, in order restrictions, evolving regulatory through reinsurance protection.
to develop its operations further.
environment, inflation, economic The effectiveness of these methods recession, tax regime changes, cannot be guaranteed, which could To mitigate this risk the group local market disruption and labour result in claims that substantially maintains effective recruitment, unrest.
These risks are exacerbated exceed the groups expectations.
retention and succession planning because they arise more Actual claims may vary significantly strategies, monitors remuneration frequently in emerging economies.
from estimates and could have a and incentive structures to The prevailing political, economic material adverse effect on the ensure they are appropriate and and social conditions in a territory groups business.
The group has in competitive, and ensures there significantly affect the general place formal underwriting and claims are training and development demand for loans and other estimating processes and follows opportunities and effective staff credit services in that territory and the insurance industry practice of communication throughout its the creditworthiness of customers.
reinsuring a portion of the underwriting business.
Adverse political, economic, risks it writes to mitigate this risk.
regulatory or social developments In addition, an independent actuary Service disruption in such territories could have a reviews the adequacy of its claims As with other retail financial services material effect on the development reserves annually.
groups, the groups business depends of the group.
These risks are on its ability to process a large mitigated by the new country entry number of transactions efficiently model, as discussed in the business and accurately.
The groups ability to development risk section, together continue to operate depends, in part, with a continual ongoing on the uninterrupted and efficient operational and financial review operation of its information and of each countrys current and likely communications systems, including future performance.
its information technology and other systems which protect business continuity.
