Directors report: Operating and financial review Risk management Risk management A common risk language is used across the Group which allows Principles meaningful comparisons to be made between different business As a provider of financial services, including insurance, the Groups units.
Risks are broadly categorised as shown in Table 1. business is the managed acceptance of risk.
Prudential believes that effective risk management capabilities are a key competitive Risk governance advantage and a strategic risk, capital and value management framework and risk management culture has been developed Governance structure to enhance the Groups embedded and franchise value.
Prudentials risk governance framework requires that all of the Groups businesses and functions establish processes for Risk is defined as the uncertainty that Prudential faces in identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the successfully implementing its strategies and objectives.
The risk governance framework is based on the concept includes all internal or external events, acts or omissions that have of three lines of defence: Risk Management, Risk Oversight the potential to threaten the success and survival of Prudential.
and Independent Assurance see diagram opposite.
Risk is not only regarded as harmful, but is also considered in relation to achieving profitable returns through controlled risk taking.
Risk management: primarily responsible for strategy, performance management and risk control lies with the The control procedures and systems the Group has established Board, the Group Chief Executive Officer and the chief are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure executives of each business unit.
to meet business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss, and 2.
Risk oversight: risk management oversight is provided by focus on aligning the levels of risk taking with the achievement Group-level risk committees, Group Chief Risk Officer Group of business objectives.
CRO and Group Risk Function working with counterparts in the business units in addition to other functions, including The Groups policy is to proactively identify, evaluate, and manage Group Compliance and Group Security.
This forms an essential element of delivering the Groups performance ambition.
In so doing, material risks will only be 3.
Independent assurance: independent assurance on the retained where this is consistent with Prudentials risk appetite effectiveness of the Groups and business unit control and risk framework, i. e. : management systems is provided by Internal Audit reporting to the Group and business unit audit committees.
the retention of the risk contributes to value creation: The risk management roles and responsibilities of the various the Group is able to withstand the impact of an adverse management bodies and committees are described below: outcome: and the Group has the necessary capabilities, expertise, processes and controls to manage the risk.
Risk categorisation Category Risk type Definition Financial risks Market risk The risk that arises from adverse changes in the value of, or income from, assets and changes in interest rates or exchange rates.
Credit risk The risk of loss if another party fails to perform its obligations, or fails to perform them in a timely fashion.
Insurance risk The inherent uncertainty as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
This includes adverse mortality, morbidity and persistency experience.
Liquidity risk The risk that a business, though solvent, either does not have the financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due or can secure the resources only at excessive cost.
Non-financial risks Operational risk The risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external events.
Business environment risk Exposure to forces in the external environment that could significantly change the fundamentals that drive the businesss overall objectives and strategy.
Strategic risk Ineffective, inefficient or inadequate senior management processes for the development and implementation of business strategy in relation to the business environment and the Groups capabilities.
Regulatory compliance risk The risk caused by changes in the compliance regulatory environments for financial services products or failure to understand or effectively apply and comply with compliance regulatory standards, principles and practices.
54 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Risk management Risk Governance Framework Risk Management Risk Oversight Independent Assurance Prudential plc Board Group Chief Executive Group Executive Group Asset Group Audit Committee Liability Committee Committee Business unit Group Chief Group Operational chief executives Risk Officer Risk Committee Group Risk Group-wide Function Internal Audit Business unit risk functions Board board committees Personnel Direct reporting line Management committees Functions Provides support to committees Board committees.
The Group Chief Executive provides regular updates The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal to the Board on the risk position and risk policy.
In order to fulfil this responsibility, Group Chief Risk Officer: the Group CRO is responsible for the Board: providing risk management oversight for the Group.
The Group determines on advice from the Group Chief Executive the CRO oversees Group Risk, Group Compliance, Group Security amount and type of risk that the Group is prepared to accept, and, for management purposes only, the Group-wide Internal ensures the formulation of adequate risk management strategies Audit function.
The Group CRO is a member of the GEC and and approves the overall framework for managing the risks faced chairs the Group-level risk committees.
by the Group: Group level risk committees seeks regular assurance, supported by the Group Audit Group Asset Liability Committee Group ALCO : responsible for Committee GAC, that the system of controls is functioning oversight of financial risks market, credit, liquidity and insurance effectively, and that the Groups system of internal control is risks across the Group.
It is chaired by the Group CRO and its managing risk in the manner that it has approved: and membership includes senior business unit and Group executives chief actuaries, principal ALM officers and chief investment delegates authority where necessary, via the Group Chief officers who are involved in the management of the aforementioned Executive, to the Group Executive Committee GEC and risks.
The Group ALCO is supported by Group Risk.
Group-level risk committees, as well as to senior management within the Group and business units.
Group Operational Risk Committee GORC : responsible for the oversight of non-financial risks operational, business environment, Group level management regulatory compliance and strategic risks across the Group.
Group executive management Group Chief Executive and GEC : Responsibilities include monitoring operational risk and related the Group Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the risks policies and processes as they are applied throughout the Group.
The Group Chief Executive recommends to the It is chaired by the Group CRO and its membership includes senior Board the amount and type of risk that the Group is prepared to representatives of the business unit and Group Risk functions.
The accept, and recommends risk management strategies as well as GORC is supported by Group Risk.
an overall framework for managing the risks faced by the Group with support from the GEC, Group CRO and Group level risk Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 55 Directors report: Operating and financial review Risk management Risk management continued Group Risk function Business units undertake risk self-assessments in accordance The Group Risk function is a Group Head Office GHO oversight with the Group Risk Framework, with dedicated risk functions, function that is structured independently of the business units.
risk committees comprising business unit asset-liability The purpose of the Group Risk department is to establish and committees and operational risk committees and named embed a strategic risk, capital and value management framework individuals responsible for the operation of the Group Risk and risk management culture consistent with Prudentials risk Framework in each business unit.
Business unit risk functions appetite that protects and enhances the Groups embedded and report directly to the respective business unit chief executives franchise value.
Group Risk, under the guidance of the Group who in turn are members of the GEC and report to the Group CRO, is also responsible for the continued development and Chief Executive.
expansion of the Risk Management Framework.
Internal audit Group Audit Committee: the GAC provides independent Group Risk is responsible for establishing and maintaining the assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management agenda across the Group by: system of internal controls and risk management.
Risk framework: reviews the Groups risk management framework, and regular Establishing structures and capabilities through designing, risk reports.
The GAC is supported by Group-wide Internal Audit.
implementing and maintaining a consistent and harmonised risk management framework and policies spanning Economic, Group-wide Internal Audit GwIA : the GwIA function Regulatory and Rating Agency Capital, Risk Appetite and independently assures the effective operation of the Groups Risk-adjusted Profitability.
risk management framework across the Group.
This involves the validation of methodology application, policy compliance 2.
Risk monitoring: and control adequacy.
The GwIA Director reports all audit related Establishing a no surprises risk management culture accomplished matters to the GAC and reports for management purposes but by identifying the risk landscape, assessing and monitoring risk not audit related matters to the Group CRO.
exposures and understanding change drivers.
Risk controlling: The Group Risk function develops and maintains a process for Implementing risk mitigation strategies and remedial actions where the regular, systematic identification, measurement, monitoring exposures are deemed inappropriate and managing the response and management of business unit and GHO risk exposures.
The Groups risk reporting framework forms an important part 4.
Risk communication: of the Groups business planning process.
As part of the annual Communicating the Group risk, capital and profitability position preparation of its business plan, all of the Groups businesses and to internal and external stakeholders and other commentators.
functions are required to carry out a review of risks.
Risk culture: an assessment of the impact and likelihood of key risks and of the Fostering a risk management culture, providing quality assurance effectiveness of controls in place to manage them, and is reviewed and facilitating the sharing of best practice risk measurement and regularly throughout the year.
In addition, business units review management across the Group and industry.
opportunities and risks to business objectives regularly with the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Group Risk acts as secretariat and adviser to the Group ALCO Group CRO.
In addition to the above primary responsibilities, Quarterly risk reports from the business units and Group are Group Risk is also responsible for: reported to Group Risk and the Group-level risk committees Group Insurance Risk Management GIRM : procures and covering risks of Group significance.
Regular reports are manages Group-wide insurance programmes: also made to Group and business unit audit committees by management, internal audit, compliance and legal functions.
Regulatory Developments: leads the Groups response to regulatory and industry developments such as Solvency II: and The Board is provided with regular updates on the Groups Actuarial Support: Group Risk provides actuarial support economic capital position, risk appetite position and risk-adjusted and oversight to the business unit and Group functions for profitability as part of the overall risk framework.
This provides regulatory and accounting measures EEV, IFRS and US GAAP.
a top down overview of the Groups risk profile measured on a consistent and economic basis.
Business unit management The insurance operations of the Group all prepare an annual The business unit chief executives are accountable for the implementation and operation of an appropriate business unit financial condition report, which is reported on to the Board.
risk framework and for ensuring compliance with the policy The financial condition reports include an assessment of key and minimum standards set by the Group.
As the first line risks affecting the business unit.
of defence, business units are responsible for identifying The impact of large transactions or divergences from business plan and managing business unit risks and providing regular risk is investigated by Group Risk as and when they are proposed, by reporting to the Group.
56 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Risk management considering the potential impacts on relevant risk reporting metrics All senior management committees within the Group and business e. g. risk appetite position.
New risk management initiatives such units have clearly documented terms of references.
as new control frameworks and mitigation strategies are reported to the GEC while they are being developed.
Risk management Policies and procedures Risk limits The Groups internal control processes, including risk Group Risk Appetite management, are detailed in the Group Governance Manual.
The Group Risk Appetite framework sets out the Groups tolerance Detailed policies and procedures exist at both the Group and to risk exposures, approach to risk return optimisation and business unit levels covering risk, finance, legal, compliance, management of risk.
The Board and GEC have set up Group-level security, technology, audit, human resources and communications.
risk appetite statements concerning the key risk exposures faced The policy framework includes the following items amongst by the Group.
The Group Risk Appetite statements set out the others of particular relevance to risk management: Groups risk tolerance, or risk appetite, to shocks to the key the Group-wide policy on risk management covering financial financial risk exposures market, credit and insurance risk.
In order and non-financial risks is detailed in the Group Risk Framework, to determine its risk appetite position, each business unit calculates which is maintained by Group Risk: the impacts on earnings flow and capital stock measures of a shock to market, credit and insurance risk exposures.
The market investment management policies for each business unit mandate and credit risk shocks include: parallel movements in interest rates, are set out in Investment Management Agreements between the falls in equities, falls in property, changes in credit spreads and relevant business units and fund managers: increases in credit losses.
The insurance risk shocks include financial control policies including financial reporting and changes in assumptions for longevity, mortality, persistency business planning are set out in business unit Financial and expenses.
Procedures Manuals: and The Group Risk Appetite statements are defined in terms policies for all aspects of actuarial management including of earnings volatility and capital requirements, as follows: regulatory reporting and asset liability management are set Earnings volatility: The objectives of the limits are to ensure out in business unit Actuarial Procedures Manuals.
that a the volatility of earnings is consistent with stakeholder Group Security maintains detailed procedures to mitigate certain expectations, b the Group has adequate earnings and cash operational risks, including: fraud, money laundering, bribery, flows to service debt and expected dividends and c that business continuity, information security and operational security.
earnings and cash flows are managed properly across geographies and are consistent with the Groups funding The Group prepares an annual business plan with three-year strategies.
The risk appetite statements for earnings volatility projections.
Executive management and the Board receive are defined in terms of two measures: EEV operating profit monthly reports on the financial position of the Group and actual and IFRS operating profit: and performance against plan, together with updated forecasts.
Group Risk Appetite Framework Earnings measures flow Capital measures stock EEV IFRS Economic Regulatory local FCD Business as usual Business as usual Maintain target Maintain target Maintain target Maintain suitable EEV operating IFRS operating level of margin above profit profit capitalisation Group solvency requirement over Individual tail planning horizon events should not significantly reduce financial resources Earnings stress Capital stress No large No large Remain above Meet Group unexpected unexpected minimum solvency falls in EEV falls in IFRS capitalisation requirement and operating profit operating profit hold sufficient resources to pay dividends and fund new business Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 57 Directors report: Operating and financial review Risk management Risk management continued Capital requirements: The objectives of the limits are to ensure quarterly risk reporting by business units to Group Risk includes that a the Group is economically solvent, b the Group details of the controls and mitigating actions being employed for achieves its desired target rating to meet its business objectives, each key risk along with an assessment of the effectiveness of c supervisory intervention is avoided, d any potential capital each control.
Any mitigation strategies involving large transactions strains are identified, and e accessible capital is available to e. g. a material derivative transaction would be subject to scrutiny meet business objectives.
The risk appetite statements for at Group level before implementation.
capital are defined in terms of two measures: EU Financial Contingency plans are in place for a range of operational risk Conglomerates Directive FCD capital requirements and scenarios, including incident management and business continuity Economic capital requirements.
As a contingency plan for liquidity risk, the Group has arranged access to committed revolving credit facilities and Risk appetite is part of the annual business planning cycle and committed securities lending facilities.
the risk profile of the Group is monitored against the agreed limits throughout the year by Group Risk.
Using submissions Asset liability management from business units, Group Risk calculates the Groups position Prudential manages its assets and liabilities locally, in accordance allowing for diversification effects between business units with local regulatory requirements and reflecting the different relative to the limits implied by the statements.
types of liabilities of each business unit.
Stochastic asset liability A two-tier approach is used to apply the limits at business unit modelling is carried out locally in the UK, the US and Asia to level.
Firstly, indicative business unit risk limits are calculated: perform dynamic solvency testing and assess economic capital these ensure that, if each business unit keeps within its limits, the requirements.
Reserve adequacy testing under a range of Group risk position would be within the Group limits.
Secondly, scenarios is also carried out, including scenarios prescribed the impact on the Group Risk Appetite position is considered as by local regulatory bodies.
part of Group Risks scrutiny of large transactions or departures The investment strategy for assets held to back liabilities is set from plan proposed by individual business units.
locally by business units, taking into account the nature, term and currency of the liabilities, and any local regulatory requirements.
Any potential breaches of the Group Risk Appetite limits implied The main principles are as follows: by a business unit plan will necessitate a dialogue process between GHO and the business units.
Group-wide limits may not be for liabilities that are sensitive to interest rate movements in breached if, for example, limits in other business units are not fully particular, UK non-profit annuities and Jackson fixed annuities, utilised, or the diversification effect at Group level of a particular cash flow analysis is used to construct a portfolio of fixed income risk with other business units means that the Group limit is not securities whose value changes in line with the value of liabilities breached.
Ultimately, authorisation to breach Group limits would when interest rates change: require GEC approval.
for participating business in particular, the UK with-profits fund, Group counterparty exposure limits stochastic asset-liability modelling is used to derive a strategic In addition to business unit operational limits on credit risk, asset allocation and policyholder bonus strategy that based on counterparty risk limits are also set at the Group level.
Limits the model assumptions will optimise policyholder and shareholder on total Group-wide exposures to a single counterparty are returns, while maintaining financial strength.
The bonus strategy specified for different credit rating buckets.
Actual exposures on participating business is an integral part of the asset-liability are monitored against these limits on a quarterly basis.
management approach for participating business: and Risk mitigation for unit-linked business, the assets held to cover policyholder Prudential employs a range of risk mitigation strategies aimed at unit accounts are invested as per the stated investment strategy reducing the impact of a variety of risks.
Key mitigation strategies or benchmark index given in the product marketing literature.
include: adjustment of asset portfolios to reduce investment risks Assets in respect of non-unit reserves e. g. sterling reserves such as duration mismatches or overweight counterparty are invested in fixed income securities using a cash flow exposures, use of derivatives to hedge market risks, reinsurance matching analysis.
programmes to limit insurance risk, and corporate insurance Derivative hedging strategies are also used on a controlled programmes to limit impact of operational risks.
Revisions to basis across the Group to manage exposure to market risks.
business plans such as reassessment of bonus rates on participating business and scaling back of target new business Surplus assets held centrally are predominantly invested in volumes may be also be used as a mitigating strategy.
The Groups central treasury Primary responsibility for identifying and implementing controls function, which is run by Prudential Finance, actively manages and mitigation strategies rests with the business units.
Group Risk the surplus assets to maximise returns, subject to maintaining provides oversight and advice to the mitigation process.
The an acceptable degree of liquidity.
58 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Risk management Group Risk is responsible for developing and maintaining the Economic capital economic capital models, and for calculating the Group economic Overview capital position.
Economic capital provides a realistic and consistent view of Group economic capital methodology Prudentials capital requirements across the Group, allowing for Prudentials internal Group economic capital requirement is diversification benefits.
Economic capital provides valuable insights defined as the minimum amount of capital that the Group needs into the risk profile of the Group and is an integral part of the to hold in order to remain economically solvent over a 25-year Groups risk management framework.
horizon, given a target probability of insolvency appropriate for The Group distinguishes between two distinct types of economic AA-rated debt.
The target confidence level is based on historic capital approaches.
These are: default rates for AA-rated debt, and varies over the time horizon of the projection.
The economic capital requirement is calculated Group Economic Capital: Prudentials Group economic capital is in respect of existing contractual and discretionary liabilities only.
calculated using an integrated model of Group-wide risk, capturing dependencies and diversification benefits between different For the purposes of calculating Group economic capital, Group business units and risk categories.
The capital requirement is economic solvency is defined as the position where both: a the determined based on a multi-year projection, thus taking into capital balance of the parent company is positive, and b all account the long-term nature of Prudentials liabilities: and business units are solvent on the applicable local regulatory basis.
This definition of solvency allows the Groups capital position to be 1-year Value at Risk Capital 1yr VaR Capital : 1yr VaR Capital assessed on an economic basis while taking into account the actual is defined as the capital required to withstand a maximum loss regulatory constraints at the business unit level.
over a time period of one year consistent with a confidence level of 99.5 per cent.
This measure was developed internally The Group economic capital position is calculated using the Group as part of Prudentials Risk-adjusted Profitability RAP approach Solvency Model GSM an integrated stochastic asset liability to risk return optimisation within the Group Risk Appetite model of the Group economic solvency position.
This measure captures the risk arising from individual economic scenarios in the GSM are generated using a stochastic risk types, and generally allows for diversification by using a economic scenario generator that captures all the correlations correlation matrix approach.
The methodology is continually between different asset classes and geographies.
In addition to its risk Group economic capital results management applications, the 1yr VaR Capital framework is As at 31 December 2005, the Group economic capital requirement used for Individual Capital Assessments ICAS in the UK and was 1.7 billion, compared to available capital resources of anticipated to form the basis of Prudentials capital modelling for 4.1 billion.
The Group economic capital requirement quoted future regulatory reporting developments, such as Solvency II.
is after allowance for diversification benefits between risk types These measures provide a consistent basis for comparing the risk and business units, and inclusive of the local regulatory capital profiles and capital requirements of different business units.
The requirements at the business unit level.
The economic capital Group economic capital position and risk profile is reported to the requirement is calculated for in-force liabilities only, excluding Board annually, with more frequent updates on an ad hoc basis.
the impact of future new business and dividend distributions.
Group Economic Capital Position m Group Capital Position at year end 2005 AA basis Group Capital Position at year end 2004 AA basis 4,500 4,500 4,000 4,000 4,114 2,395 3,500 3,500 3,418 1,584 3,000 3,000 2,500 2,500 2,000 2,000 1,834 1,500 1,500 1,719 1,000 1,000 500 500 0 0 Available Required Capital Available Required Capital capital capital surplus capital capital surplus Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 59 Directors report: Operating and financial review Risk management Risk management continued Note that the economic capital surplus of 2.4 billion quoted Scenario testing above excludes any surplus in respect of the Groups participating The impact of a range of deterministic shock scenarios is tested with-profits funds.
For Group economic capital, it is assumed that using the Group economic capital model.
The purpose is to assess any free assets in participating funds are ring-fenced to support the the resilience of the Groups economic solvency position to a relevant fund and excluded from the Groups economic surplus.
range of key threat scenarios.
For the year-end 2005, economic Any capital injections required by participating funds on top of capital scenarios relating to stable, falling and rising interest the ring-fenced free assets are captured in the Group economic rates were tested.
In addition, scenarios proposed by the 2006 capital requirement calculation.
For year end 2005, none of the Financial Risk Outlook, as published by the FSA, were tested.
Groups participating funds required additional economic capital The scenarios related to high oil prices, lower consumption and on top of the ring-fenced free assets.
US dollar depreciation, and were considered individually and in combination.
Finally, the potential expected effect of a pandemic The allocation of economic capital diversified by risk type is on the Group was analysed.
The largest risk exposure is credit risk, which reflects the relative size of the exposure in Jackson, Prudential UK The impact of each scenario was tested by analysing the projected and Egg.
The ALM risk exposure mainly reflects interest rate risk Group cash flow balances over 25 years.
The results of the analysis in Jackson and Taiwan.
An increasingly significant component of showed that the projected net cash flow balance to the Group the underwriting risk is attributable to longevity risk, which has remains positive in all future years under each scenario tested.
increased due to the growth in annuity business being written in Business unit local economic capital assessments the UK shareholder fund.
In addition to Group-level economic capital framework The standalone economic capital for Operational Risk has been described above, business units also monitor their own relatively stable.
The reason for the proportional increase shown economic capital requirements locally on a stand alone basis above is that the other risk capital requirements have decreased without allowance for diversification effects with the rest of in absolute terms, rather than a significant increase in Operational the Group.
The business unit economic capital assessments Risk from the 2004 year-end level.
are reported regularly and included in the business unit financial condition reports.
The business unit economic capital assessments allow management to put the local regulatory capital requirements into an economic context.
Economic Capital Requirement split by business unit Risk exposure at year end 2005 AA basis Risk exposure at year end 2004 AA basis 7 1 7 1 6 6 2 1 UK with-profits 0% 1 UK with-profits 0% 2 5 2 UK shareholder 25% 5 2 UK shareholder 19% 3 Jackson 46% 3 Jackson 46% 4 4 Prudential Corporation Asia 12% 4 Prudential Corporation Asia 16% 4 5 M&G 4% 5 M&G 5% 6 Egg 12% 6 Egg 12% 7 GHO 1% 7 GHO 1% 3 3 Economic Capital Requirement split by risk type Risk exposure at year end 2005 AA basis Risk exposure at year end 2004 AA basis 5 1 ALM 21% 4 1 ALM 28% 5 1 1 4 2 Credit 48% 2 Credit 47% 3 Underwriting 13% 3 3 Underwriting 10% 3 4 Persistency 1% 4 Persistency 2% 5 Operational 18% 5 Operational 13% 2 2 60 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Risk management Currency risk Market risk Prudential currently operates in the UK, the US, 12 countries in Market risk is the risk of adverse financial impact due to changes in Asia including Taiwan, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and China fair values of financial instruments from fluctuations in asset prices, and Europe.
Due to the geographical diversity of Prudentials foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Market risk businesses, it is subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
arises in business units due to fluctuations in the value of liabilities Prudentials international operations in the US and Asia, which and the value of investments held.
Prudentials businesses are represent a significant proportion of operating profit and inherently subject to market fluctuations and general economic shareholders funds, generally write policies and invest in assets conditions.
Although this practice limits the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on local operating results, it In the UK, this is because a significant part of Prudentials can lead to significant fluctuations in Prudentials consolidated shareholders profit is related to bonuses for policyholders financial statements upon translation of results into pounds declared on its with-profits products, which are broadly based sterling.
The currency exposure relating to the translation of on historic and current rates of return on equity, real estate and reported earnings is not separately managed.
Consequently, this fixed income securities, as well as Prudentials expectations of could impact on the Groups gearing ratios defined as debt over future investment returns.
The impact of gains or losses on In the US, fluctuations in prevailing interest rates can affect results currency translations is recorded as a component of shareholders from Jackson, where the majority of its assets are invested in fixed funds within the statement of changes in equity.
In particular, fixed annuities and stable value Prudential does not generally seek to hedge foreign currency products in Jackson expose the Group to the risk that changes revenues, as these are substantially retained locally to support the in interest rates which are not fully reflected in the interest rates growth of the Groups business and meet local regulatory and credited to customers will reduce earned spread.
However, where foreign surplus is deemed spread is the difference between the amounts that Jackson is to be supporting UK capital or shareholders interests this required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return it is exposure is hedged if it is deemed optimal from an economic able to earn on its general account investments to support the perspective.
Currency borrowings and derivatives are used to obligations under the contracts.
Declines in spread from these manage exposures within the limits that have been set.
products or other spread businesses that Jackson conducts could have a material impact on its profitability and solvency.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises primarily from Prudentials investments For some non-linked investment products, in particular those in long-term debt and fixed income securities.
Interest rate risk written in some of the Groups Asian operations, it may not be also exists in policies that carry investment guarantees on early possible to hold assets which will provide cash flows to exactly surrender or at maturity, where claim values can become higher match those relating to policyholder liabilities.
This is particularly than the value of backing assets when interest rates rise or fall.
true in those countries where bond markets are not developed and in certain markets, such as Taiwan, where regulated surrender The Group manages this risk by adopting close asset-liability values are set with reference to the interest rate environment matching criteria, to minimise the impact of mismatches between prevailing at time of policy issue.
This is due to the duration and the value of assets and liabilities from interest rate movements.
uncertainty of the liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient Interest rate risk is also controlled through the use of a variety of assets of a suitable duration.
This results in a residual asset-liability derivative instruments, including futures, options and swaps, in mismatch risk which can be managed but not eliminated.
Where order to hedge against unfavourable market movements in interest interest rates in these markets remain lower than those implied rates inherent in the underlying assets and liabilities.
The impact by surrender values over a sustained period this could have an of exposure to sustained low interest rates is regularly monitored.
adverse impact on the Groups reported profit.
Equity risk The management of market risk is undertaken at both business unit The Group is subject to equity price risk due to daily changes in and Group level.
Business units manage market risks locally using the market values of its equity securities portfolio.
The Groups their local ALM frameworks and business unit ALCOs, and within shareholders are exposed to both direct equity shareholdings in local regulatory constraints.
Business units may also be constrained its shareholder assets, and indirectly to the impact arising from by the requirement to meet policyholders reasonable expectations changes in the value of equities held in policyholders funds from and to minimise or avoid market risk in a number of areas.
At Group which management charges or a share of performance are taken, level, market risk is the responsibility of the Group ALCO, which has as well as from its interest in the free estate of long-term funds.
a remit to manage a number of investment related risks, in particular At business unit level, equity price risk is actively managed through those faced by the shareholder funds throughout the Group.
the use of derivative instruments, including futures and options, For each of the major components of market risk, described in order to mitigate anticipated unfavourable market movements in more detail below, Prudential has put in place policies and where this lies outside the risk appetite of the fund concerned.
procedures to set out how each risk should be managed and Business units actively model the performance of equities through monitored, and the approach to setting an appropriate risk appetite.
the use of stochastic models, in particular to understand the impact of equity performance on guarantees, options and bonus rates.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 61 Directors report: Operating and financial review Risk management Risk management continued In particular, Jackson actively hedges its exposure to the fund, pension annuity policyholders receive a guaranteed guarantees arising from its variable annuity business.
Where payment, for as long as they are alive.
Prudential conducts possible, Jackson will seek to find offsetting exposures across its rigorous research into longevity risk using data from its substantial asset and liability portfolios and to conduct its hedging activities on annuitant portfolio.
As part of its pension annuity pricing and a macro basis, and relies on option-based strategies to address tail reserving policy, Prudential UK assumes that current rates of risks.
Although the macro approach and the hedging of tail events mortality continuously improve over time at levels based on are not consistent with the way certain accounting methods test for adjusted data from the Continuous Mortality Investigations effectiveness, our view is that the efficiency of execution and the CMI medium cohort table projections as published by the need to hedge on an economic basis outweighs the need to avoid Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
Prudentials voluntary discontinuance persistency assumptions The Group does not have material holdings of unquoted equity reflect recent past experience for each relevant line of business, securities.
In addition, local asset admissibility regulations require and any expectations of future persistency.
Where appropriate, that business units hold diversified portfolios of assets thereby allowance is also made for the relationship, which is either reducing exposure to individual equities.
assumed or historically observed, between persistency and investment returns and the resulting additional risk is allowed for.
Credit risk Liquidity risk Credit risk is the risk of loss in the value of financial assets due to counterparties failing to meet all or part of their obligations.
Credit Liquidity risk is the risk that a business, though solvent, either does risk is Prudentials most significant financial risk, and it is actively not have the financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall monitored by business units via business unit investment due or can secure the resources only at excessive cost.
Business units have their own liquidity policies, which also depend In addition to business unit operational limits on credit risk on the maturity of the business, and the available assets in the requiring business units to implement local credit risk policies, markets.
For Prudential UK, liquidity risk is managed through Prudentials management of credit risk includes monitoring holding assets at the greater of a specified percentage of total exposures at Group level.
Large individual counterparty funds managed or a specified multiple of the average peak daily exposures are aggregated and monitored on a quarterly basis cash flow over the last 12 months.
For Jackson, modelling is against centrally-set red zone, amber zone and green zone performed on how quickly their different liabilities could be called, limits.
This active monitoring of counterparty exposures, on and how quickly they could also liquidate their assets, ensuring a consolidated Group level, is undertaken by the Group ALCO.
that at 30, 90 days and one year the cash available exceeds potential obligations.
Financial assets are graded according to current credit ratings issued by the rating agencies.
Financial assets are classified For Prudential Group, there is a committed corporate credit facility within the range of AAA to D ratings, with AAA being the for liquidity.
Typically, around 95 per cent of the Groups assets are rated within the investment grade category Non-financial risk BBBand higher.
The level of financial assets which fall outside the range of the ratings is also monitored on an ongoing basis, Prudentials Group Risk Framework also covers non-financial risks and this tends to be less than one per cent of shareholder assets operational risk, business environment risk, strategic risk and at any given point in time.
Prudential processes a large number of complex transactions across numerous and diverse products, and is subject to a number of different legal and regulatory Insurance risk regimes.
Prudential outsources several operations, including Prudential needs to make assumptions about a number of factors certain UK processing and IT functions and is thus reliant upon the in determining the pricing of its products and for reporting the operational processing performance of its outsourcing partners.
results of its long-term business operations.
In common with other Business units are responsible for the management of the nonindustry participants, the profitability of the Groups businesses financial risks associated with their business.
They conduct a depends on a mix of factors including mortality and morbidity formal self-assessment of material operational risks and assess their trends, voluntary discontinuance rates, investment performance, impact and likelihood.
Business units also identify control available unit cost of administration and new business acquisition expense.
to mitigate the impact or likelihood or both of the identified risk.
For example, the assumption that Prudential makes about future There is also an assessment of the control which considers the expected levels of mortality is particularly relevant for its UK quality of the controls design.
annuity business where in exchange for their accumulated pension 62 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Risk management Quantitative analysis is carried out for operational risks with Summary of risk factors material and potential direct losses i. e. excluding opportunity costs and lost revenue.
For each risk, the analysis describes the The International Organisation of Securities Commissions IOSCO possible manifestations of the risk and the controls against it in has recommended that annual reports of publicly held companies each business unit and, on this basis, frequency and severity include a section on risk factors which discusses inherent risks parameters are assigned to each risk.
The effect of operational risk in the business and trading environment.
The US Securities and on the Group as a whole is analysed by aggregating the individual Exchange Commission SEC requires listed companies to disclose risks using a Group operational risk capital model, allowing for the prominently risk factors that are specific to the companies or their correlations and diversification effects between different risk types industries in their annual reports on Form 20-F filed with the and business units.
The Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statement: Operating and Financial Review OFR, recommends as best practice, that the OFR has a description of the principal risks Financial strength and capital management and uncertainties facing the business.
The European Union EU Prudentials financial strength and credit ratings, which are Prospectus Directive also requires disclosure of risk factors.
intended to measure its ability to meet policyholder obligations, A number of factors risk factors affect Prudentials operating are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of results, financial condition and trading price.
The risk factors Prudentials products and, as a result, its competitiveness.
Changes mentioned below should not be regarded as a complete and in methodologies and criteria used by rating agencies could result comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
in downgrades that do not reflect changes in the general economic The information given is as of the date of this report, is not updated, conditions or Prudentials financial condition.
Downgrades in and any forward-looking statements are made subject to the Prudentials ratings could have an adverse effect on its ability to reservations specified on the inside back cover of the Annual Report.
market products and retain current policyholders.
In addition, the interest rates Prudential pays on its borrowings are affected by Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to market its debt credit ratings, which are in place to measure Prudentials fluctuations and general economic conditions.
ability to meet its contractual obligations.
Prudential believes Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to market the credit rating downgrades it experienced in 2002 and 2003, fluctuations and general economic conditions.
In the UK, this is together with the rest of the UK insurance industry, and in 2006 because a significant part of Prudentials shareholders profit is by Standard & Poors to bring it into line with the standard rating related to bonuses for policyholders declared on its with-profits agency notching between operating subsidiary financial strength products, which are broadly based on historic and current rates rating and the credit rating for other European insurance holding of return on equity, real estate and fixed income securities, as companies have not to date had a discernible impact on the well as Prudentials expectations of future investment returns.
In the US, fluctuations in prevailing interest rates can affect results from Jackson, which has a significant spread-based business with Prudentials long-term senior debt is rated as A2 stable outlook the majority of its assets invested in fixed income securities.
In by Moodys, A stable outlook by Standard & Poors and AA particular, fixed annuities and stable value products written by stable outlook by Fitch.
Jackson expose the Group to the risk that changes in interest Prudentials short-term debt is rated as P-1 by Moodys, A-1 rates, which are not fully reflected in the interest rates credited by Standard & Poors and F1 by Fitch.
to customers, will reduce spread.
The spread is the difference between the amounts that Jackson is required to pay under the The PAC long-term fund is rated Aa1 stable outlook by Moodys, contracts and the rate of return it is able to earn on its general AA stable outlook by Standard & Poors and AA stable account investments to support the obligations under the outlook by Fitch.
Declines in spread from these products or other Prudentials insurance and investment management operations are spread businesses that Jackson conducts could have a material generally conducted through subsidiaries.
As a holding company, impact on its businesses or results of operations.
Prudentials principal sources of funds are dividends from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds, the shareholder transfer For some non-unit-linked investment products, in particular those from Prudentials long-term funds and any amounts that may be written in some of the Groups Asian operations, it may not be raised through the issuance of equity, debt and commercial paper.
possible to hold assets which will provide cash flows to exactly match those relating to policyholder liabilities.
This is particularly Certain of the subsidiaries are regulated and therefore have true in those countries where bond markets are not developed restrictions that can limit the payment of dividends, which in and in certain markets such as Taiwan where regulated surrender some circumstances could limit the Groups ability to pay values are set by regulators with reference to the interest rate dividends to shareholders.
environment prevailing at time of policy issue.
This results in a mismatch due to the duration and uncertainty of the liability cash Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 63 Directors report: Operating and financial review Risk management Risk management continued flows and the lack of sufficient assets of a suitable duration.
This have significant effect on the types of products Prudential provides residual asset liability mismatch risk can be managed but not to its customers and intermediaries and how those products are eliminated.
Where interest rates in these markets remain lower priced, distributed and sold.
These include the FSAs move than surrender values over a sustained period this could have an towards principles-based regulation, the FSAs Treating Customers adverse impact on the Groups reported profit.
Fairly initiative, the FSAs review of retail distribution, the proposed regulatory change affecting the UK pensions market and the In all markets in which Prudential operates, its businesses implementation of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive are susceptible to general economic conditions and changes MiFID and the Solvency II directive.
in investment returns, which can change the level of demand Current EU directives require European financial services groups for Prudentials products.
Past uncertain trends in international to demonstrate net aggregate surplus capital in excess of solvency economic and investment climates which have adversely requirements at the Group level in respect of shareholder-owned affected Prudentials business and profitability could be repeated.
The test is a continuous requirement, so that Prudential This adverse effect would be felt principally through reduced needs to maintain a somewhat higher amount of regulatory capital investment returns and credit defaults.
In addition, falling at the Group level than otherwise necessary in respect of some of investment returns could impair Prudentials operational capability, its individual businesses to accommodate, for example, short-term including its ability to write significant volumes of new business.
movements in global foreign exchange rates, interest rates, Prudential in the normal course of business enters into a variety of deterioration in credit quality and equity markets.
In addition, transactions, including derivative transactions with counterparties.
changes in the local regulatory regimes of designated territories Failure of any of these counterparties, particularly in conditions of could affect the calculation of the Groups solvency position major market disruption, to discharge their obligations, or where under FCD.
Given the recently announced sale of Egg, and adequate collateral is not in place, could have an adverse impact pending discussions with the FSA, Prudential may again become on Prudentials results.
an insurance group rather than its current classification as a Prudential is subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations financial conglomerate.
This would imply that Prudential would owing to the geographical diversity of its businesses.
have to meet the requirements of the EU Insurance Groups Due to the geographical diversity of Prudentials businesses, it Directive IGD.
This should not have a significant impact on is subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
Prudentials the Group, as the FSAs prudential requirements pertaining to international operations in the US and Asia, which represent a insurance groups are very similar to those applying to financial significant proportion of operating profit and shareholders funds, conglomerates.
The EU is also currently reviewing future solvency generally write policies and invest in assets denominated in local requirements Solvency II with a draft directive expected in mid currency.
Although this practice limits the effect of exchange rate 2007 for implementation by member states not earlier than 2010. fluctuations on local operating results, it can lead to significant Inconsistent application of these directives by regulators in fluctuations in Prudentials consolidated financial statements upon different EU member states may place Prudential at a competitive translation of results into pounds sterling.
The currency exposure disadvantage to other European financial services groups.
relating to the translation of reported earnings is not separately managed.
Consequently, this could impact on the Groups gearing Various jurisdictions in which Prudential operates have created ratios defined as debt over debt plus shareholders funds.
The investor compensation schemes that require mandatory impact of gains or losses on currency translations is recorded as a contributions from market participants in some instances in the component of shareholders funds within the statement of changes event of a failure of a market participant.
As a major participant in equity.
in the majority of its chosen markets, circumstances could arise where Prudential, along with other companies, may be required Prudential conducts its businesses subject to regulation and to make additional material contributions.
associated regulatory risks, including the effects of changes Any further changes or modification of the recently introduced IFRS in the laws, regulations, policies and interpretations and accounting policies and EEV guidance may require a change in the any accounting standards in the markets in which it operates.
reporting basis of future results or a restatement of reported results.
Changes in government policy, legislation or regulatory interpretation applying to companies in the financial services The resolution of several issues affecting the financial and insurance industries in any of the markets in which services industry could have a negative impact on Prudential operates, which in some circumstances may be Prudentials reported results or on its reputation or applied retrospectively, may adversely affect Prudentials on its relations with current and potential customers.
product range, distribution channels, capital requirements and, Prudential is, and in the future may be, subject to legal and consequently, reported results and financing requirements.
For regulatory actions in the ordinary course of its business, both in instance, regulators in jurisdictions in which Prudential operates the UK and internationally.
This could be a review of business may change the level of capital required to be held by individual sold in the past under previously acceptable market practices businesses.
Also these changes could include possible changes in at the time such as the requirement in the UK to provide redress the regulatory framework for pension arrangements and policies, to certain past purchasers of pension and mortgage endowment the regulation of selling practices and solvency requirements.
In policies and regulatory reviews on products sold and industry the UK several proposed and potential regulatory changes could practices, including in the latter case businesses it has closed.
64 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Risk management Regulators particularly, but not exclusively, in the US and the UK are Jacksons competitors in the US include major stock and mutual increasingly interested in the approach that product providers use to insurance companies, mutual fund organisations, banks and select third-party distributors and to monitor sales made by them.
other financial services companies such as AXA Financial Inc, Hartford Life Inc. Lincoln National, MetLife, Prudential Financial In the US, federal and state regulators have focused on, and continue and TIAA-CREF.
to devote substantial attention to, the mutual fund, variable annuity Prudential believes competition will intensify across all regions in and insurance product industries.
This includes new regulations response to consumer demand, technological advances the impact in respect of the suitability of broker-dealers sales of certain of consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors.
As a result of publicity relating to widespread perceptions ability to generate an appropriate return depends significantly of industry abuses, there have been numerous regulatory inquiries upon its capacity to anticipate and respond appropriately to these and proposals for legislative and regulatory reforms.
In Asia, regulatory regimes are developing at different speeds, driven by a combination of global factors and local considerations.
Downgrades in Prudentials financial strength and There is a risk that new requirements are introduced that are credit ratings could significantly impact its competitive retrospectively applied to sales made prior to their introduction.
position and hurt its relationships with creditors or trading counterparties.
Litigation and disputes may adversely affect Prudentials Prudentials financial strength and credit ratings, which are profitability and financial condition.
intended to measure its ability to meet policyholder obligations, Prudential is, and may be in the future, subject to legal actions are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of and disputes in the ordinary course of its insurance, investment Prudentials products and, as a result, its competitiveness.
management and other business operations.
These legal actions Changes in methodologies and criteria used by rating agencies and disputes may relate to aspects of Prudentials businesses and could result in downgrades that do not reflect changes in the operations that are specific to Prudential, or that are common to general economic conditions or Prudentials financial condition.
companies that operate in Prudentials markets.
Legal actions and Downgrades in Prudentials ratings could have an adverse effect disputes may arise under contracts, regulations or from a course on its ability to market products and retain current policyholders.
of conduct taken by Prudential, and may be class actions.
Although In addition, the interest rates Prudential pays on its borrowings are Prudential believes that it has adequately reserved in all material affected by its debt credit ratings, which are in place to measure aspects for the costs of litigation and regulatory matters, no Prudentials ability to meet its contractual obligations.
Prudential assurance can be provided that such reserves are sufficient.
Given believes the credit rating downgrades it experienced in 2002 and the large or indeterminate amounts of damages sometimes sought, 2003, together with the rest of the UK insurance industry, and in and the inherent unpredictability of litigation and disputes, it is 2006 by Standard & Poors to bring Prudential into line with the possible that an adverse outcome could, from time to time, have standard rating agency notching between operating subsidiary an adverse effect on Prudentials results of operation or cash flows.
financial strength rating and the credit rating for other European Prudentials businesses are conducted in highly insurance holding companies, have not to date had a discernible competitive environments with developing demographic impact on the performance of its business.
trends and Prudentials continued profitability depends Prudentials long-term senior debt is rated as A2 stable outlook on its managements ability to respond to these pressures by Moodys, A stable outlook by Standard & Poors and AA and trends.
The markets for the UK, the US and Asian financial services are highly competitive, with several factors affecting Prudentials Prudentials short-term debt is rated as P-1 by Moodys, A-1 ability to sell its products and its continued profitability, including by Standard & Poors and F1 by Fitch.
price and yields offered, financial strength and ratings, range The PAC long-term fund is rated Aa1 stable outlook by Moodys, of product lines and product quality, brand strength and name AA stable outlook by Standard & Poors and AA stable recognition, investment management performance, historical outlook by Fitch.
bonus levels, developing demographic trends and customer appetite for certain savings products.
In some of its markets Adverse experience in the operational risks inherent Prudential faces competitors that are larger, have greater in Prudentials business could have a negative impact financial resources or a greater market share, offer a broader on its results of operations.
range of products or have higher bonus rates or claims-paying Operational risks are present in all of Prudentials businesses, ratios.
Further, heightened competition for talented and skilled including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from employees with local experience, particularly in Asia, may limit inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems the Groups potential to grow its business as quickly as planned.
and human error or from external events.
Prudentials business is dependent on processing a large number of complex transactions Within the UK, Prudentials principal competitors in the life across numerous and diverse products, and is subject to a number insurance market include many of the major retail financial services of different legal and regulatory regimes.
In addition, Prudential companies including, in particular, Aviva, Legal & General, HBOS outsources several operations, including certain UK processing and Standard Life.
In turn, Prudential is reliant upon the operational processing performance of its outsourcing partners.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 65 Directors report: Operating and financial review Risk management Risk management continued Further, because of the long-term nature of much of Prudentials Prudential operates in a number of markets through joint business, accurate records have to be maintained for significant ventures and other arrangements with third parties.
Prudentials systems and processes incorporate controls arrangements involve certain risks that Prudential does not which are designed to manage and mitigate the operational risks face with respect to its consolidated subsidiaries.
For example, any weakness in the Prudential operates, and in certain markets is required by local administration systems or actuarial reserving processes could have regulation to operate, through joint ventures.
Prudentials ability an impact on its results of operations during the effective period.
to exercise management control over its joint venture operations Prudential has not experienced or identified any operational and its investment in them depends on the terms of the joint risks in its systems or processes during 2006, or which have venture agreements, in particular, the allocation of control subsequently caused, or are expected to cause, a significant among, and continued co-operation between, the joint venture negative impact on its results of operations.
Prudential may also face financial or other exposure in the event that any of its joint venture partners fails to meet Adverse experience against the assumptions used in pricing its obligations under the joint venture or encounters financial products and reporting business results could significantly difficulty.
In addition, a significant proportion of the Groups affect Prudentials results of operations.
product distribution is carried out through arrangements with Prudential needs to make assumptions about a number of factors third parties not controlled by Prudential and is dependent upon in determining the pricing of its products and for reporting the continuation of these relationships.
A temporary or permanent results of its long-term business operations.
For example, the disruption to these distribution arrangements could affect assumption that Prudential makes about future expected levels Prudentials results of operations.
of mortality is particularly relevant for its UK annuity business.
In exchange for a premium equal to the capital value of their accumulated pension fund, pension annuity policyholders receive a guaranteed payment, usually monthly, for as long as they are alive.
Prudential conducts rigorous research into longevity risk, using data from its substantial annuitant portfolio.
As part of its pension annuity pricing and reserving policy, Prudential UK assume that current rates of mortality continuously improve over time, at levels based on adjusted data from the Continuous Mortality Investigations CMI medium cohort table projections as published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
If mortality improvement rates significantly exceed the improvement assumed, Prudentials results of operations could be adversely affected.
A further example is the assumption that Prudential makes about future expected levels of the rates of early termination of products by its customers persistency.
This is particularly relevant to its lines of business other than its UK annuity business.
Prudentials persistency assumptions reflect recent past experience for each relevant line of business.
Any expected deterioration in future persistency is also reflected in the assumption.
If actual levels of future persistency are significantly lower than assumed that is, policy termination rates are significantly higher than assumed, Prudentials results of operations could be adversely affected.
In common with other industry participants, the profitability of the Groups businesses depends on a mix of factors including mortality and morbidity trends, policy surrender rates, investment performance, unit cost of administration and new business acquisition expense.
As a holding company, Prudential is dependent upon its subsidiaries to cover operating expenses and dividend payments.
Prudentials insurance and investment management operations are generally conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries.
As a holding company, Prudentials principal sources of funds are dividends from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds, the shareholder transfer from Prudentials long-term funds and any amounts that may be raised through the issuance of equity, debt and commercial paper.
Certain of the subsidiaries are regulated and therefore have restrictions that can limit the payment of dividends, which in some circumstances could limit the Groups ability to pay dividends to shareholders.
