Primary Parent EEV statements company Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements continued C: Group risk management i Overview A significant part of the Groups business involves the acceptance and management of risk.
The Groups risk management model requires the primary responsibility for risk management at an operational level to rest with business unit chief executives.
The second line of defence of risk comprises oversight functions reporting to the Group Chief Executive together with business unit risk functions and risk management committees.
The third line of defence comprises independent assurance from Internal Audit reporting to business unit and Group audit committees.
A The Group Risk Framework requires that all of the Groups businesses and functions establish processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
The risk management of the Group has been given additional focus by the creation in 2005 of a new role of Group Chief Risk Officer CRO.
The CRO oversees all aspects of the Groups risk management, including Financial Risk, Operational Risk, Compliance, and for management purposes, Internal Audit.
Additional information on the Groups risk framework, B including the Group and business unit level risk committees, is included in the risk management section of the Groups operating and financial review.
As a provider of financial services, including insurance, the Groups business is the managed acceptance of risk.
The system of internal control is an essential and integral part of the risk management process.
As part of the annual preparation of its business plan, all of the C Groups businesses and functions are required to carry out a review of risks.
This involves an assessment of the impact and likelihood of key risks and of the effectiveness of the controls in place to manage them.
The assessment is reviewed regularly throughout the year.
In addition, business units evaluate opportunities and risks against business objectives regularly with the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Group Chief Risk Officer.
D Businesses are required to confirm annually that they have undertaken risk management during the year as required by the Group Risk Framework, and that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The results of these reviews are reported to the Audit Committee together with confirmation that the processes described above as required by the Group Risk Framework were in place throughout the period covered by the report.
The businesses also confirm that they complied with Internal Control: Guidance on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance.
In addition, Internal Audit executes a comprehensive risk-based audit plan throughout E the Group, with all significant issues arising from the audit reported to the Group Audit Committee.
The Groups internal control framework includes detailed procedures set out in financial and actuarial procedure manuals.
The Group prepares an annual business plan with three-year projections.
Executive management and the Board receive monthly reports on the Groups actual performance against plan, together with updated forecasts.
F The insurance operations of the Group all prepare a financial condition report which is presented to the Board, together with regular reports from the Group Finance Director on the financial position of the Group.
ii Major risks G The Group publishes separately within its Group Annual Report a section on key risk factors, which discusses inherent risks in the business and trading environment.
iii Financial risks a Foreign exchange risk Prudential faces foreign exchange risk, primarily because its presentation currency is pounds sterling, whereas approximately 67 per cent H of Prudentials operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns, as described in note B1, for the year ended 31 December 2006, came from Prudentials US and Asian operations.
The exposure relating to the translation of reported earnings is not separately managed although its impact is reduced by interest payments on foreign currency borrowings and by the adoption of average exchange rates for the translation of foreign currency revenues.
I Approximately 76 per cent of the Groups IFRS basis shareholders funds at 31 December 2006 arose in Prudentials US and Asian operations.
To mitigate the exposure of the US component there are US$1.55 billion of borrowings held centrally.
The Group has also entered into a US$2 billion net investment hedge see note G3.
Net of the currency position arising from these instruments some 43 per cent of the Groups shareholders funds are represented by net assets in currencies other than sterling.
b Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Prudential may be unable to meet payment of obligations in a timely manner at a reasonable cost or the risk of unexpected increases in the cost of funding at appropriate maturities or rates.
Liquidity management in each business seeks to ensure that, even under adverse conditions, Prudential has access to the funds necessary to cover surrenders, withdrawals and maturing liabilities.
In practice, most of Prudentials invested assets are marketable securities.
This, combined with the fact that a large proportion of the liabilities contain discretionary surrender values or surrender charges, reduces the liquidity risk.
The Group maintains committed borrowing and securities lending facilities.
136 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Primary Parent statements company EEV Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements c Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty or an issuer of securities, which Prudential holds in its asset portfolio, defaults or another party fails to perform according to the terms of the contract.
Some of Prudentials businesses, in particular Jackson, Egg, the PAC with-profits fund and Prudentials UK pension annuity business, hold large amounts of interest-sensitive investments that contain credit risk on which a certain level of defaults is expected.
These expected losses are considered when Prudential determines the crediting rates, deposit rates and premium rates for the products that will be supported by these assets.
The key shareholder businesses exposed to credit risks are A Jackson and Egg.
Certain over-the-counter derivatives contain a credit risk element that is controlled through evaluation of collateral agreements and master netting agreements on interest rate and currency swaps.
Prudential is also exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties.
Further analysis of the credit risks for Jackson is shown in note D3 and for Egg in note E7.
B iv Operational, compliance and fiscal risk Operational risk can result from a variety of factors, including failure to obtain proper internal authorisations or maintain internal controls, failure to document transactions properly, failure of operational and information security procedures or other procedural failures, computer system or software failures, other equipment failures, fraud, inadequate training or errors by employees.
Compliance with internal rules C and procedures designed to manage these risks is monitored by Prudentials local management boards.
Internal compliance managers who report to the local management boards monitor adherence to local regulatory requirements.
The head of Prudentials Group Compliance function reports directly to the Group Chief Risk Officer who submits regular reports to the Board of Directors.
D Compliance risk includes the possibility that transactions may not be enforceable under applicable law or regulation as well as the cost of rectification and fines, and also the possibility that changes in law or regulation could adversely affect Prudentials position.
Prudential seeks to minimise compliance risk by seeking to ensure that transactions are properly authorised and by submitting new or unusual transactions to legal advisers for review.
E Prudential is exposed to certain fiscal risks arising from changes in tax laws and enforcement policies and in reviews by taxation authorities of tax positions taken by Prudential in recent years.
Prudential manages this risk and risks associated with changes in other legislation and regulation through ongoing review by relevant departments of proposed changes to legislation and by membership of relevant trade and professional committees involved in commenting on draft proposals in these areas.
F v Market risk Market risk is the risk that future changes in market prices may make a financial instrument less valuable.
The primary market risks Prudential faces are equity risk and interest rate risk because most of its assets are investments that are either equity type investments and subject to equity price risk, or bonds, mortgages or cash deposits, the values of which are subject to interest rate risk.
The amount of risk borne by Prudentials shareholders depends on the extent to which its customers share the investment risk through the structure G of Prudentials products.
The split of Prudentials investments between equity investments and interest-sensitive instruments depends principally on the type of liabilities supported by those investments and the amount of capital Prudential has available.
This mix of liabilities allows Prudential to invest a substantial portion of its investment funds in equity and property investments that Prudential believes produce greater returns H over the long term.
On the other hand Prudential has some liabilities that contain guaranteed returns and allow instant access for example, interest-sensitive fixed annuities, immediate annuities and fixed rate customer bank deposits, which generally will be supported by fixed income investments.
To reduce investment, interest rate and foreign exchange exposures, and to facilitate efficient investment management, Prudential uses I derivative instruments.
Prudentials policy is that cash or corresponding assets cover amounts at risk through derivative contracts.
vi Asset liability management Prudential manages its assets and liabilities locally, in accordance with local regulatory requirements and reflecting the differing types of liabilities Prudential has in each business.
As a result of the diversity of products offered by Prudential and the different regulatory environments in which it operates, Prudential employs different methods of asset liability management, on both an in-force and new business basis.
Stochastic modelling of assets and liabilities is undertaken in the Groups insurance operations to assess economic capital requirements for different confidence intervals and time horizons.
In addition, reserve adequacy testing under a range of scenarios and dynamic solvency analysis is carried out, including under certain scenarios mandated by the US, the UK and Asian regulators.
A stochastic approach models the inter-relationship between asset and liability movements, taking into account asset correlation and policyholder behaviour, under a large number of possible scenarios.
These scenarios are projected forward over a period of time, typically 25 years or longer, and the liabilities and solvency position of the fund are calculated in each scenario in each future year.
This allows the identification of which extreme scenarios will have the most adverse effects and what the best estimate outcome may be.
The funds policy on management actions, including bonus and investment policy, are then set in order that they are consistent with the available capital and the targeted risk of default.
This differs from a deterministic model, which would only consider the results from one carefully selected scenario.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 137 Primary Parent EEV statements company Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements Notes on the Group financial statements continued C: Group risk management continued For businesses that are most sensitive to interest rate changes, such as immediate annuity business, Prudential uses cash flow analysis to create a portfolio of fixed income securities whose value changes in line with the value of liabilities when interest rates change.
This type of analysis helps protect profits from changing interest rates.
In the UK, the cash flow analysis is used in Prudentials annuity and banking business while, in the US, it is used for its interest-sensitive and fixed index annuities and stable value products such as Guaranteed A Investments Contracts GICs.
Perfect matching is not possible for interest-sensitive and fixed index annuities because of the nature of the liabilities which include guaranteed surrender values and options for prepayment contained in the assets.
The US supervisory authorities require Jackson to calculate projections to test Jacksons ability to run off its liabilities with assets equal to statutory reserves in a number of specified future economic scenarios.
If Jackson is unable to satisfy all of these tests, which are carried out at least annually, then it may be B required to establish additional statutory reserves.
For businesses that are most sensitive to equity price changes, Prudential uses stochastic modelling and scenario testing to look at the expected future returns on its investments under different scenarios that best reflect the large diversity in returns that equities can produce.
This allows Prudential to devise an investment and with-profits policyholder bonus strategy that, on the model assumptions, C allows it to optimise returns to its policyholders and shareholders over time, while maintaining appropriate financial strength.
Prudential uses this method extensively in connection with its UK with-profits business.
When presenting regulatory returns to the UK supervisory authorities, the calculation of the statutory liabilities for solvency purposes on the FSAs Peak 1 basis is required to incorporate a resilience reserve that is sufficient to ensure that assets equal to the statutory reserves including the resilience reserve remain equal to statutory reserves in the event of certain prescribed changes in equity and real estate D prices combined with prescribed rises and falls in interest yields.
All of Prudentials investments are held either for risk management or investment purposes.
This is because almost all of the investments support policyholder or customer liabilities of one form or another.
Any assets that Prudential holds centrally that are not supporting customer liabilities are predominantly invested in short-term fixed income and fixed maturity securities.
E vii Use of derivatives In the UK and Asia, Prudential uses derivatives to reduce equity risk, interest rate and currency exposures, and to facilitate efficient investment management.
In the US, Prudential uses derivatives to reduce interest rate risk, to facilitate efficient portfolio management and to match liabilities under fixed index annuities policies.
F Details of the Groups use of derivatives are explained in note G3.
It is Prudentials policy that cash or corresponding assets cover amounts at risk through derivative transactions.
Derivative financial instruments used to facilitate efficient portfolio management and for investment purposes are carried at fair value with changes in fair G value included in long-term investment returns.
