Operating and financial review continued Risk factors weather conditions, demographic developments, changes in Set out below are certain risk factors which could affect the mortality and other causes outside the Groups control.
Such Groups future results and cause them to be materially different changes would affect the profitability of current and future from expected results.
The Groups results are also affected by insurance products and services.
The Group re-insures some competition and other factors.
The factors discussed in this of the risks it has assumed.
report should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
Operational risks are inherent in the Groups business The Groups businesses are dependent on the ability to The Group's business and earnings are affected by general process a very large number of transactions efficiently and business and geopolitical conditions accurately.
Operational losses can result from fraud, errors by The performance of the Group is influenced by economic employees, failure to document transactions properly or to conditions particularly in the UK, US and Europe.
Downturns in obtain proper authorisation, failure to comply with regulatory these economies could result in a general reduction in requirements and Conduct of Business rules, equipment business activity and a consequent loss of income for the failures, natural disasters or the failure of external systems, for Group.
It could also cause a higher incidence of credit losses example, the Groups suppliers or counterparties.
Although the and losses in the Groups trading portfolios.
Geopolitical Group has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation conditions can also affect the Groups earnings.
Terrorist acts actions, and substantial resources are devoted to developing and threats and the response of governments in the UK, US efficient procedures and to staff training, it is only possible to and elsewhere to them could affect the level of economic be reasonably, but not absolutely, certain that such procedures activity.
The Groups business is also exposed to the risk of will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks business interruption and economic slowdown following the faced by the Group.
Each of the Groups businesses is subject to substantial The financial performance of the Group is affected by regulation and regulatory oversight.
Any significant regulatory borrower credit quality developments could have an effect on how the Group Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the conducts its business and on the results of operations recoverability of loans and amounts due from counterparties The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, are inherent in a wide range of the Groups businesses.
administrative actions and policies in each location in which Adverse changes in the credit quality of the Groups borrowers the Group operates.
This supervision and regulation, in and counterparties or a general deterioration in UK, US, particular in the UK and US, if changed could materially affect European or global economic conditions, or arising from systemic the Groups business, the products and services offered or the risks in the financial systems, could affect the recoverability value of assets.
and value of the Groups assets and require an increase in the provision for impairment losses and other provisions.
Future growth in the Groups earnings and shareholder value depends on strategic decisions regarding organic growth and Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices potential acquisitions and other market factors affect the Groups business The Group devotes substantial management and planning The most significant market risks the Group faces are interest resources to the development of strategic plans for organic rate, foreign exchange and bond and equity price risks.
growth and identification of possible acquisitions, supported Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may by substantial expenditure to generate growth in customer affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and business.
If these strategic plans do not meet with success, borrowing costs.
Changes in currency rates, particularly in the the Groups earnings could grow more slowly or decline.
sterling-dollar and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign The risk of litigation is inherent in the Groups operations currencies and affect earnings reported by the Groups nonIn the ordinary course of the Groups business, legal actions, UK subsidiaries, mainly Citizens, RBS Greenwich Capital and claims against and by the Group and arbitrations arise: the Ulster Bank, and may affect income from foreign exchange outcome of such legal proceedings could affect the financial dealing.
The performance of financial markets may cause performance of the Group.
changes in the value of the Groups investment and trading portfolios.
The Group has implemented risk management The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in tax legislation methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to and its interpretation and to increases in the rate of corporate which the Group is exposed.
However, it is difficult to predict and other taxes in the jurisdictions in which it operates with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and The Groups activities are subject to tax at various rates around to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on the the world computed in accordance with local legislation and Groups financial performance and business operations.
Action by governments to increase tax rates or to impose additional taxes would reduce the profitability of the The Groups insurance businesses are subject to inherent risks Group.
Revisions to tax legislation or to its interpretation might involving claims also affect the Group's results in the future.
Future claims in the Groups general and life assurance business may be higher than expected as a result of changing trends in claims experience resulting from catastrophic 48 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and financial review
