Additional information continued Economic and monetary environment Supervision and regulation The Groups earnings are affected by the economic and 1 United Kingdom monetary environment in its key markets.
1.1 The regulatory regime applying to the UK financial services industry The UK interest rate cycle turned in 2006, with the Monetary The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA Policy Committee MPC lifting the Bank Rate from 4.5% to 2000, containing an integrated legislative framework for 4.75% in August, and to 5% in November.
Despite market regulating most of the UK financial services industry, came expectations that there would be more to come from the MPC into force at the end of 2001.
This and subsequent in 2007, longer-term interest rates were below the policy rate at amendments established the Financial Services Authority year-end, as was the case for most of 2006 e. g. the 10-year the FSA as the single statutory regulator responsible for benchmark gilt yield was 4.74%.
The Bank Rate was regulating deposit taking, insurance, mortgage and increased in response to the threat that stronger economic investment business in the UK.
activity posed to the medium-term inflation outlook, and the risk that the energy-induced increase in CPI inflation during 2006 Under the FSMA 2000, businesses require the FSA's would dislodge expectations ahead of the 2007 wage permission to undertake specified types of activities bargaining round CPI inflation was 3% in December 2006: the including entering into and carrying out contracts of government-set target is 2%.
insurance: managing, dealing in or advising on, investments: mortgage business: accepting deposits: and Even after 17 interest rate rises over the past two-and-a-half issuing electronic money regulated activities.
The FSA years, to 5.25%, monetary conditions remain fairly supportive has published detailed regulatory requirements contained in the US.
A weak dollar and low long-term interest rates have in a Handbook of Rules and Guidance.
partially offset the effect of a higher fed funds rate on economic activity though 5.25% is not high by historic The FSAs statutory objectives are to maintain confidence standards.
The US economy grew by a respectable 3.4% in in, and to promote public understanding of, the UK 2006, though sluggish growth towards the end of the year financial system: to secure an appropriate degree of largely attributed to a sharp slowdown in the housing and consumer protection: and to reduce the scope for financial auto sectors led markets to price in rate cuts in 2007.
In achieving these objectives, the FSA must take helped to exacerbate the yield curve inversion that prevailed account of certain principles of good regulation which for most of 2006. include recognising the responsibilities of authorised firms own management, facilitating innovation and competition The European Central Bank lifted the Refi Rate to 2.25% in and acting proportionately in imposing burdens on the January 2006.
Prior to that, the Refi had been on hold at 2% for industry.
Four more quarter-point increases followed, taking the Refi to 3.25% by year-end.
Markets expect this 1.2 Authorised firms in the Group normalisation to continue in 2007, as the improved economic As at 31 December 2006, 33 companies in the Group, environment meant that ultra-low interest rates were no longer spanning a range of financial services sectors banking, needed to stimulate demand.
insurance and investment business, are authorised to conduct activities regulated by the FSA.
These companies Exchange rates are an important driver of monetary conditions: are referred to as 'authorised firms'.
they also affect earnings reported by the Groups non-UK subsidiaries, and the value of non-sterling denominated assets The FSA supervises the banking business of the UK based and liabilities.
The pound rose by 25c against the dollar over the banks in the Group, including The Royal Bank of Scotland, course of the year, or 14%, in response to the unexpected at NatWest, Coutts & Co, Ulster Bank Limited and Tesco the start of 2006 increase in UK interest rates.
Sluggish growth Personal Finance Limited.
in the US towards the end of the year, and the markets perception that this would lead to lower interest rates in 2007, General insurance business is principally undertaken by also put downward pressure on the dollar.
companies in the RBS Insurance division, whilst life assurance business is undertaken by Royal Scottish Assurance plc and National Westminster Life Assurance Limited with the Groups partner, the AVIVA Group and Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited.
Investment management business is principally undertaken by companies in the Retail Markets division, including Adam & Company Investment Management Limited and Coutts & Co Investment Management Limited, and in the Corporate Markets division, RBS Asset Management Limited.
246 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Additional information 1.3 The FSAs regulatory approach and supervisory standards As regards the insurance industry, the FSAs primary The regulatory regime uses the full range of regulatory objective is to regulate and supervise the industry so that tools including the authorisation of firms, rule-making, policyholders have confidence that they have bought supervision, investigation and enforcement available to appropriate products, and so that UK insurers are able to the FSA.
It is founded on a risk based, integrated approach meet their liabilities and treat customers fairly.
The FSA sets to regulation.
requirements relating to margins of solvency i. e. the excess of the value of assets over the amount of liabilities.
The FSA can request information from and give directions Companies carrying out insurance business are required to, authorised firms.
It may also require authorised firms to to submit regular returns covering reserves and solvency to provide independent reports prepared by experts.
FSA can exercise indirect control over the holding companies of authorised firms via its statutory powers to Firms must also meet standards relating to senior object to persons who are, or will become, controllers of management and internal controls and systems and must these firms.
comply with rules designed to reduce the scope for firms to be used for money laundering.
Revised Joint Money As part of its regulatory approach the FSA carries out Laundering Steering Group Guidance Notes were regular risk assessments of the Group which is also published in February 2006 and came into force six subject generally to direct and on-going FSA supervision.
The EU has published its draft Third Money Laundering Directive which will supersede the two previous The FSA carries out the prudential supervision and Anti Money Laundering Directives.
Implementation is conduct of business regulation of all authorised firms and required by December 2007. also regulates the conduct of their business in the UK.
Currently, the application of its conduct of business rules Conduct of business standards essentially govern key to banking business is limited, but detailed conduct of aspects of firms relationships with customers, and require business requirements apply to general insurance the provision of clear and adequate information, the intermediary activities, mortgage business and investment managing of conflicts of interest and the recommending business activities.
of products suitable to the needs of customers.
The marketing of financial products particularly investment Prudential supervision includes monitoring the adequacy of products is subject to detailed requirements.
The FSA is a firm's management, its financial resources and internal scheduled to issue new conduct of business rules during systems and controls.
Firms are required to submit regular 2007 to comply with the implementation of the Markets in returns to the FSA which provide material for supervisory Financial Instruments Directive in November 2007. assessment.
Following the official adoption in the UK of the EU Capital Requirements Directive, new prudential 1.4 Focus on customers sourcebooks were issued to take effect from 1 January 2007.
An important element in securing an appropriate degree of consumer protection is ensuring that suitable Many of the standards relating to the capital which firms arrangements are made for dealing with customer must hold to absorb losses arising from risks to its complaints.
Firms are required to establish appropriate business are determined by EU legislation or are internal complaint handling procedures and to report negotiated internationally.
The current capital adequacy complaints statistics to the FSA.
Where an issue cannot be regime requires firms to maintain certain levels of capital, resolved by the parties it may be referred for independent of certain specified types or tiers, against particular assessment to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The FSA's high level principles require all regulated firms In its supervisory role, the FSA sets requirements relating to treat their customers fairly.
The FSA has undertaken a to matters such as consolidated supervision, capital number of industry wide thematic reviews on this issue, adequacy, liquidity, large exposures, and the adequacy of and it has remained a primary supervisory theme accounting records and controls.
Banks are required to set throughout 2006.
The FSA has indicated that it will include out their policy on large exposures and to inform the FSA assessment of firms effectiveness in this area in regular of this.
The policy must be reviewed annually and any risk assessments of firms.
significant departures from policies must be discussed with the FSA.
Large exposures must be monitored and The Financial Services Compensation Scheme financed controlled.
by levies on authorised firms is available to provide compensation up to certain limits if a firm collapses owing money to investors, depositors or policyholders.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 247 Additional information Additional information continued 1.5 Fraud 3 United States During 2006, the FSA reviewed and reported on several As the ultimate parent of Citizens subsidiary US banks, the fraud related topics across the financial services industry.
company is a bank holding company within the meaning of, These have been designed to raise awareness and and subject to regulation and supervision under, the US understanding of their expectations in managing fraud risks Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended the at a general level such as Firms High Level Management BHCA, by the Board of Governors of the Federal of Fraud Risk, and have also been issued to cover Reserve System the Federal Reserve Board.
Under recommendations on specific topics such as Online Fraud, current Federal Reserve Board policy, the company is Mortgage Fraud and Commercial Property Fraud.
expected to act as a source of financial strength to its US bank subsidiaries.
Bank holding companies that meet 1.6 Enforcement certain eligibility criteria may elect to become financial Where appropriate, the FSA may discipline and or holding companies under the BHCA.
The company prosecute for breaches of the legislative or regulatory elected to become a financial holding company effective in requirements.
The FSA works closely with the criminal February 2004.
As a financial holding company, the authorities and uses both civil and criminal powers.
It can company may engage in any activity, and may acquire and withdraw a firm's authorisation, discipline firms and retain the shares of any company engaged in any activity, individuals, prosecute for various offences and require that the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be funds to be returned to customers.
financial in nature or incidental or complementary thereto.
Activities that meet these criteria include The FSA also has powers under certain consumer unrestricted securities underwriting and dealing, insurance legislation to take action against authorised firms to underwriting, and various venture capital or investment address unfair terms in financial services consumer activities.
Financial holding companies must give the contracts.
Federal Reserve Board after-the-fact notice of any such new activities.
2 Europe Much of the regulatory agenda in the UK and other Bank holding companies including bank holding European Member States in which the Group operates companies that are also financial holding companies, continues to be set by the European Union.
Legislation such as the company are required to obtain the prior comprising the EUs Financial Services Action Plan approval of the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring, is nearly complete and implemented, with attention now directly or indirectly, the ownership or control of more turning to the policy agenda through to 2010.
The than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any US bank Commission wishes to pursue a different approach to or bank holding company.
policymaking: costed, evidence-based and targeted.
Nonetheless, there are some major initiatives already The companys US bank and non-bank subsidiaries and in the pipeline: including a revised Consumer Credit The Royal Bank of Scotlands US offices, are subject to Directive, a directive to establish a legal framework for direct supervision and regulation by various other federal the euro payments area, Solvency II a revised EU capital and state authorities.
Citizens state-chartered bank framework for insurance companies, and possible subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by legislation on mortgage credit and investment funds.
state banking authorities and the US Federal Deposit The Group has been increasingly engaged with the EU Insurance Corporation, and The Royal Bank of Scotlands and national policymakers on all these priority measures, New York branch is supervised by the New York State and will aim to maintain this level of involvement.
The companys US insurance agencies are regulated by state insurance authorities.
The Group conducts business in several European The companys US securities affiliates, including countries.
Notable European operations include business Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. are subject to regulation in the Republic of Ireland through the Ulster Bank Group and supervision by the US Securities and Exchange regulated by the Irish Financial Regulator : and Retail and Commission and various self-regulating organisations.
Insurance business through the Retail Markets and RBS The futures activities of Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. Insurance divisions in Germany, Italy, Spain and the are also subject to oversight by the US Commodity Futures Netherlands regulated by those countries respective Trading Commission and the Chicago Board of Trade.
In all of these operations the Group Charter One Bank, N. A.
Citizens Bank, N. A. and RBS recognises the importance of meeting the respective National Bank are regulated and supervised primarily by regulatory requirements.
the US Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
248 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Additional information On 26 October 2001, the President of the United States Application of Basel 2 differs between jurisdictions.
The EU signed into law the Uniting and Strengthening America by is applying Basel 2 to all banks and investment firms.
The Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and US is taking a different approach, mandating that the Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 the Patriot Act.
The largest internationally active US banks use the Advanced Patriot Act was renewed on 2 March 2006 and signed into approaches for credit and operational risk calculations: law by the President of the United States on 9 March 2006. other US banks will remain on the pre-existing standards or The Patriot Act significantly expanded the responsibilities a modified version thereof Basel 1 or Basel 1a or decide of financial institutions in preventing the use of the US to opt-into Basel 2.
Our US subsidiary, Citizens Financial financial system to fund terrorist activities.
Title III of the Group, is an opt-in firm for these purposes.
Patriot Act officially, the International Money Laundering Abatement and Anti-Terrorist Financing Act of 2001 is the The Group has submitted a request to the FSA generally anti-money laundering portion of the Patriot Act.
Title III referred to as a waiver to adopt the Advanced Internal provided for a sweeping overhaul of the US anti-money Ratings-Based approach AIRB for the majority of the laundering regime.
Among other provisions, it requires Groups EU credit risk exposures from the earliest possible financial institutions operating in the United States to i date, January 2008.
In order to satisfy the requirements for give special attention to correspondent and payableAIRB, which is the most sophisticated option available to through bank accounts, ii implement enhanced reporting, firms, banks are required to have risk grading, scoring and due diligence and know your customer standards for validation approaches that calculate the Probability of private banking and correspondent banking relationships, Default, Exposure at Default and Loss Given Default for iii scrutinise the beneficial ownership and activity of each facility.
Outputs from these models, along with other certain non-US and private banking customers and iv factors, such as maturity, are then used to calculate develop new anti-money laundering programmes, due RWAs according to regulatory formulas.
diligence policies and controls to ensure the detection and reporting of money laundering.
The Patriot Act requires all The implications of the new rules are becoming clearer.
US financial institutions to develop anti-money laundering Assuming average risk profiles, banks will require less programmes.
Such required compliance programmes are capital to support lending to residential mortgages and intended to supplement any existing compliance other retail and small and medium enterprises.
Good programmes for purposes of requirements under the Bank quality corporate lending should also see a reduction in Secrecy Act and the Office of Foreign Assets Control capital requirements.
Conversely banks, on average, will be Regulations.
required to hold more regulatory capital for some specialised lending and equity exposures, sovereigns and 4 Other jurisdictions poorer quality bank and corporate credits, although the Through its Corporate Markets and Wealth Management actual capital requirements under Basel 2 depend on a divisions, the Group conducts business in various other number of factors, including collateral.
jurisdictions and is regulated by many financial and other regulatory bodies around the world.
These jurisdictions Basel 2 introduces, for the first time, an explicit include among others China, Hong Kong, Japan, requirement to hold capital for operational risk.
Of the Singapore and Australia in the Asia Pacific region: available options, the Group is adopting The Standardised Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Bahrain where the Group has Approach initially, with the objective of migrating to the branches and representative offices: and Switzerland more sophisticated Advanced Measurement Approach, in and the Channel Islands.
line with the US implementation.
In addition, Basel 2 also introduces two new elements a formal supervisory review 5 Regulatory developments for capital and risk process Pillar 2 and more extensive market disclosures management Pillar 3.
The Group is making good progress in both The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued new areas, in advance of formal implementation in 2008. requirements for firms risk weighted asset RWA calculations in June 2004.
These rules are generally referred to as Basel 2.
In the EU, this new framework became law through the Capital Requirements Directive and associated changes to national laws or regulatory guidelines e. g. the FSAs GENPRU and BIPRU.
Within the US, regulators have the flexibility to implement Basel 2 directly, after their final Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.
Full adoption of these rules comes into force across the EU on 1 January 2008 and the US from 1 January 2009.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 249 Additional information
