Risk management and Credit risk Schroders internal control In respect of credit risk, limits are reviewed and set centrally by the Group Agency and Risk management In this section we detail the work undertaken Principal Risk Committees, supported by a and internal control in connection with the Groups risk dedicated team of credit professionals.
Local management process and system management is responsible for monitoring of internal controls.
exposure against these limits and reporting to Group management by exception.
In 36 37 Risk management respect of principal risk, the Group sets the The Board is accountable for risk and overall Group limit and delegates authority is responsible for oversight of the risk to set credit limits within the overall limit to management process.
The Board has the Groups banking businesses in London, considered the principal risks facing the Guernsey and Switzerland.
Group and the exposure in relation to each of those risks.
Interest rate and market risk The Group does not run a trading book.
The Group Management Committee has The Private Banking subsidiaries hold certain approved a risk management framework financial instruments debt securities, forward and structure established by the Group Risk foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps for customer facilitation purposes.
The framework defines the principal Group interest rate risk is largely mitigated risk categories and sets out the methodology by the short-term nature of our holdings of for the identification, assessment, mitigation interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
It is and reporting of risks.
A risk management Group policy to hedge any residual interest structure is in place which embeds risk rate risk.
The Group has a number of overseas management into the business.
subsidiaries whose shareholders funds, revenues and expenses are denominated The Group Management Committee reviews principally in local currencies.
Forward foreign the key corporate risks facing the Group and exchange contracts with third parties are receives regular reports as to the current used to mitigate exposure to currency status of each risk.
movements where it is considered that the sterling values of such amounts are at risk.
Group Risk Committee The use of such instruments is limited and The Group Risk Committee oversees the key is subject to approval by the Group risks and the risk management process.
Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, and includes representatives from In addition, the Groups seed capital across the business and the control functions.
investments may also be hedged in respect Local management is responsible for of market risk where it is possible to construct operational risk controls where appropriate an effective hedge and there is a perceived and, depending on the size and complexity of risk of volatility in the value of the investment the business unit, risk and control maps have due to market movements.
The decisions been prepared which have been captured on to hedge market risk on seed capital an on-line worldwide risk management investments, typically using futures, are system.
The Group Risk Committee receives taken by the Group Capital Committee in reports from line management regarding consultation with the business.
any matters giving cause for concern and ensures appropriate remedial action is taken.
This includes reports on errors and omissions and near misses.
The Committee also receives regular presentations on key projects, products and business activities from senior management.
Monitoring risk reports from the Heads of Group it is regularly reviewed by the Board and The liquidity of the banking entities within Compliance and Group Risk on the results complies with the internal control guidance the Group is monitored by the Principal Risk of the twice-yearly business risks and for directors in the Combined Code: and Committee and that of the Group by the controls evaluation survey, summarising Group Capital Committee.
The Group Capital the work undertaken by the Group Risk necessary actions have been or are being Committee monitors and controls the use of Committee and highlighting any significant taken to remedy any significant failings the Groups non-operating capital resources.
control issues arising: identified as part of the ongoing risk management process.
Dedicated personnel are responsible for quarterly reports from the Heads of Group producing and maintaining market and Compliance and Group Risk on the control The Board advocates, encourages and liquidity risk reports based upon the Financial environment and relevant issues arising supports continuous improvements in all Services Authoritys methodologies under the within the Group, highlighting any major Group activities, systems and procedures.
The underlying instances of non-compliance and the methodologies and limits are reviewed and actions being taken to remedy such set centrally by the Principal Risk Committee.
non-compliance: Local risk committees and the Principal Risk Committee review exposures against limits a twice-yearly report with interim updates on a regular basis.
from the Group General Counsel outlining the Groups legal risks: Group Compliance undertakes detailed monitoring activities to review compliance a report from the Head of Group with legal and regulatory requirements.
Group Compliance on the fraud prevention Internal Audit carries out a programme of measures in place within the Group: audits approved by the Audit Committee, including reviews of the risk management quarterly reports from the Head of Group process and advice and recommendations Internal Audit on the key issues arising from on improving the control environment.
Internal Audits inspection programme: Internal control Group Internal Audits review of the The Board is responsible for the Groups effectiveness and application of the system of internal control and for reviewing risk management process: and its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance annual and regular reports from the against material financial misstatement or loss Head of Group Internal Audit on the and is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee The Board is of the view that there is an has carried out its annual assessment of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating effectiveness of internal control during 2006 and managing the Groups significant risks using the following to support its conclusions: and that: the six-monthly assessments by the Group it has been in place for the year ended Management Committee of key corporate 31 December 2006 and up to the date of risks and responsibilities for those risks: approval of the Annual Report and Accounts:
