SVG Capital plc Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2006 26 Business review continued SVG Advisers Risks and risk management The investment management and advisory business, The Board has adopted a matrix of key risks which SVG Advisers, was established in 2001 with the affect its business and a robust framework of internal key objective of providing intelligent solutions and control which is designed to monitor those risks innovative structures for investing in private equity and to provide a monitoring system to enable the or public equity using private equity techniques.
Directors to mitigate these risks as far as possible.
A fuller analysis of the Directors system of internal The business has continued to expand rapidly control and its monitoring system, is set out in the building recurring fee streams and increasing Corporate governance statement.
The principal funds and commitments under management risks are considered to be as follows:- from 11.9 billion in 2005 to 13.3 billion at the end of 2006.
The business now employs over 55 people General risks associated with investment managing five diversied private equity fund of in private equity funds, five single manager funds all investing in Investment in private equity involves a high degree Permira Funds and four funds investing in public of risk.
The Group invests in private equity through its equities using private equity techniques.
exposure to buy-out and development capital funds.
Total external fee income increased from Such investments are illiquid and might be difficult 10.6 million to 20.3 million, including recurring to realise, particularly within a short timeframe.
external fees of 13.3 million, compared to The Directors seek to maintain a diversied portfolio 7.5 million in 2005.
Including fees paid by of investments to mitigate these risks.
SVG Capital to SVG Advisers, total fees earned Valuation risk by the operating subsidiaries were 24.3 million, contributing 8.2 million to the Groups profit The Groups exposure to valuation risk comprises before tax in 2006. mainly movements in the value of its underlying investments.
A breakdown of the Groups portfolio of private equity funds is given on pages 28 to 29 and a detailed analysis of the 20 largest underlying companies is given on pages 22 to 25.
All underlying investments are valued at fair value by the Directors in accordance with the current International Private Equity and Venture Capital IPEVC Guidelines.
The IPEVC Guidelines contain detailed methodology setting out best practice with respect to valuing unquoted investments.
Valuation risks are mitigated by a comprehensive review of underlying investments in the private equity funds which are carried out by the managers of the private equity funds twice each year.
These valuations are then considered by the Audit Committee and the Board with advice and assistance from SVG Advisers, the managers of the private equity funds and other advisers as appropriate.
The Groups Auditor also reviews the valuations as part of their audit and agrees any changes with the Audit Committee and the Board.
Future commitment funding risk At 31 December 2006, the Group had significant uncalled commitments of 1,828.4 million 2005: 314.4 million, compared to Shareholders' funds of 1,154.1 million 2005: 906.7 million.
The Group has in place a b600.0 million 10 year multicurrency borrowing facility and has in addition issued 107.3 million of Private Placement Notes.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review 27 The Board considers cash-ow forecasts at each Currency and interest rate risk Board meeting and expects to meet a substantial The Group is exposed to currency risk directly portion of its uncalled commitments, as well as since the majority of its assets and liabilities are commitments from future funds, from distributions denominated in foreign currency and their Sterling received from its investments and from borrowings value can be signicantly affected by movements available to the Group.
At the present time, in foreign exchange rates.
The Group does an amount of b114.4 million is utilised by way not normally hedge against foreign currency of guarantees of the Companys commitments to movements affecting the value of its investments.
Any reduction in However, currency risk is monitored on a regular the net asset value and the share price is amplied basis by the Board and cash balances are held in by the gearing.
The Directors keep the Groups accordance with an agreed policy to match, gearing under review and impose restrictions on as far as possible, anticipated future commitments.
borrowings to mitigate this risk.
Regulatory risks Investment holdings period The regulatory environment in which the Group Investment in private equity requires a long-term operates is increasingly complex and the Group commitment with no certainty of return.
Many of faces a number of regulatory risks.
Breaches of the investments made by the Group are illiquid regulations such as the UK Listing Authoritys holdings in buy-out and development capital funds Listing Rules could lead to a number of detrimental and, in some cases, may not be capable of being outcomes and damage the Groups reputation.
realised in a timely manner or at all.
The timing Breaches of controls by service providers could of cash distributions, if any, made by the buy-out also lead to reputational damage or loss.
and development capital funds is uncertain and Key regulatory risks have been identied and unpredictable.
Investments in buy-out and appropriate monitoring of such risks is undertaken development capital funds may be difficult to value on behalf of the Board.
and dispositions may require a lengthy time period since there is only a limited market for secondary Taxation risks sales of private equity investments.
Further, sales Any change in the taxation legislation or practice or other transfers of interests in buy-out and could affect the value of the Groups investments development capital funds sometimes require and as a result, its performance.
A breach of the written consent of the general partner of the Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes fund, the granting of which is at its discretion.
Act 1988 could result in the Group being subject Accordingly, the Group may not be able to sell its to capital gains tax on the sale of portfolio investments in buy-out and development capital investments.
However, the Group has strict funds at their net asset value or even at discounted controls in place to ensure that it complies with prices below the net asset value.
the requirements of Section 842 and contracts However, the Directors believe that the investment with specialist tax advisers to provide advice on process employed when initially selecting changes to tax regulation and practice.
investments helps to ensure that the Groups investments would be attractive to buyers in the secondary market.
Concentration risk The Company has investments in 23 private equity funds providing it with a portfolio of 120 companies that are diversied by vintage year, size, geography and sector.
The majority of the Companys investments are managed or advised by Permira, and the future performance of the Group will therefore be largely dependent on the future performance of the Permira Funds in which it invests.
The Directors believe that this represents an opportunity, but greater concentration of the investment portfolio also presents a risk.
Each investment proposition is considered by the Investment Committee and the Board in accordance with a structured investment process.
This includes presentations from the manager of the proposed fund, extensive due-diligence, consideration of the terms and conditions for investment in the fund, consideration of the Groups own cash ows and future commitments and a review of the effect of any such investment on portfolio concentration.
