Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Centrica, like all businesses, faces a number of risks and uncertainties as we conduct our operations.
There are a number of risks that could impact the Groups long-term performance and steps are taken to understand and evaluate these in order to achieve our objective of creating long-term, sustainable returns for shareholders.
We have a risk management process operated by third parties both in the in place, which is designed to identify, UK and abroad.
The potential threat of manage and mitigate business risk.
terrorism in relation to certain markets Regular reporting of these risks and the and assets is an increasing risk.
monitoring of actions and controls is To respond to this changing environment, conducted by the Audit Committee, the Company has supported new which reports its findings to the Board.
infrastructure development to bring gas This process is described in the Corporate to the UK.
In addition we continue to take Governance section on page 32. steps to acquire assets to replace our The factors described below highlight declining gas reserves.
The Company will risks and uncertainties which affect the continue to secure and develop such gas Group but are not intended to be an and power assets in the UK and overseas exhaustive analysis of all the risks which and continually review the security may arise in the ordinary course of business arrangements to protect those assets.
Some risks may be unknown Health, safety and the environment to the Group and other risks, currently The Company faces inherent health and regarded as immaterial, could turn out safety risks due to the large scale onshore to be material.
and offshore assets that we operate, and the millions of home visits our service businesses in the UK and North America Operational factors make to customers each year.
We are committed to maintaining high standards of UK customer service, brand and reputation health and safety, and our well developed High wholesale prices and higher levels of processes reflect this risk.
Further price volatility in the commodity markets information on our approach to health see commodity prices below have caused and safety is available in the Corporate all suppliers to increase prices to customers Responsibility section on page 25. which in turn have driven up customer The Companys activities have an impact churn and adversely affected customers on the environment.
The Company has recently presents risks and opportunities for our engaged additional staff and implemented a business.
The need for action to tackle new billing system for residential customers climate change was further emphasised to help improve levels of customer service.
in the Stern Review published in 2006.
Further information on our approach to Further information on our approach to customer service is available in the Corporate climate change is available in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 25.
Security of supply Outsourcing and offshoring As the indigenous gas reserves have Centrica has entered into a number of declined, the UK, and so the Company, outsourcing contracts, some of which has become increasingly reliant on are offshore, in respect of certain support supplies from mainland Europe and functions for its UK and North America other parts of the world.
As with any contractual key element of security of supply is access relationship, including outsourcing and to these reserves and the reliability of the offshoring, there are significant inherent transmission and distribution networks risks to be considered and mitigated.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued The oversight and effective management climate, gas and electricity prices and an proposals for the five-year price controls of complex contracts across multiple increasing awareness of the environmental on gas and electricity transmission as service providers in the UK, North America impact of energy use.
Furthermore, the well as a one-year price control on gas and India is a significant area of focus development and application of new distribution.
The new arrangements will for Centricas management team.
An technologies, either from the use of apply to the network companies from Outsourcing Offshoring Governance domestic energy generating units e. g. 1 April 2007.
The proposals are expected Group coordinates the Groups approach micro-combined heat and power units, to result in an increase in transportation to outsourcing initiatives to ensure these and or greater use of demand-side charges, and so final prices to customers, risks are properly managed.
management technology e. g. smart therefore potentially contributing to metering, could affect demand in the customer churn.
Ofgem is also conducting Information systems medium term.
The Company monitors a five-year gas distribution price control Large and effective information systems consumption trends, develops weather review process.
This activity will set are critical for the efficient management hedge strategies and seeks to inform allowed revenues for the regulated gas and accurate billing of our customers and customers through the provision distribution network companies for the to support our upstream trading activities.
of energy saving advice and products.
As a supplier, Accordingly, the Company continues to Centrica will be subject to any revisions to invest in such systems, most notably the Level of competitive activity policies or transportation charges resulting replacement of its UK customer management The energy supply market in the UK is from this review.
At this early stage of the systems.
These extensive change highly competitive and increasingly so process it is not possible to predict the programmes are subject to implementation in North America.
The Company also outcomes, and while all users of the gas risks and require the application of strong operates in the competitive home distribution networks would be affected, project management and comprehensive services markets in both the UK and this could again feed into higher costs business continuity plans.
In the UK, competitive and customer prices.
pressures are increasing as existing In July 2006, the Government published energy providers and other service its Energy Review entitled The Energy External market factors providers, such as insurance companies, Challenge, Energy Review Report 2006. seek to strengthen their market position.
Policy consultations are currently ongoing Active monitoring of customer trends and with an Energy White Paper expected in Commodity prices competitor activity enables the Company Spring 2007.
Centrica has been active The Companys energy requirements to to respond to changing circumstances during this period of consultation to help serve its gas and electricity customers are by developing retention campaigns and define policy on issues such as the future dependent on the wholesale commodity innovative customer propositions.
of the Renewables Obligation and the markets for gas, oil, coal, carbon and Energy Efficiency Commitment, measures power prices, all of which have been to improve the planning system for new volatile during 2006.
While the outlook Regulatory factors energy infrastructure projects and proposals for 2007 suggests a more stable market for changes to energy billing and metering.
place, particularly in gas, driven by greater We also continue to press for a firm The energy markets in the UK, North liquidity as new pipelines to the UK come political commitment to the EU Emissions America and Continental Europe are into operation, this will always be subject Trading Scheme post-2012 which is subject to comprehensive operating to external market events and factors.
critical to new investment decisions requirements as defined by the relevant Further consolidation particularly between being taken over the next few years.
sector regulators and or government companies with significant upstream We have welcomed the Government departments.
As participants in these resources could lead to a less liquid introduction of a Climate Change Bill markets, amendments to the regulatory market due to the reduction in available which sets in statute the Governments regime could have an impact on the counterparties with whom to trade.
target to reduce carbon emissions by 60% Company achieving its financial goals.
To manage this risk, the Company by 2050.
We are moving ahead with the In the UK energy market, the regulator, optimises its asset and contract portfolio commercial development and consenting Ofgem, is undertaking a supply licence based on comprehensive market analysis of our Teesside Carbon Capture and review scheduled for completion in June and continuous assessment overseen by Storage project.
The proposed changes were the Financial Risk Management Committee.
need to take into account the support published for the first time in December The Companys policy is to hedge a framework for low carbon technologies.
2006 and Ofgem has proposed to retain proportion of the exposure for a number There are positive signs regarding the only a limited number of conditions that of years ahead matched to the underlying liberalisation of European energy markets.
are necessary for the energy market to profiles of our customers energy In June, the EU Energy Commissioner function properly and to protect the requirements supplemented by the use announced a strategic energy review that interests of customers, in particular those of financial instruments such oil and gas has the creation of competitive markets at who are vulnerable.
The final decision swaps, gas derivatives and bilateral document together with the new licence its heart.
The need for effective competition agreements for gas and power.
conditions are expected in March 2007, is emphasised by the current level of Consumption with the new licence conditions coming consolidation activity in Europe, with Gas sales volumes, and to a lesser extent into force in June 2007.
The precise the potential emergence of national electricity sales volumes, are affected by extent of the remaining requirements champions, which could not only impact temperature and other weather factors.
our participation in Europe but also our In addition, customers demand behaviour In January 2007, the regulated network ability to source and transport gas across will be influenced by the national economic companies accepted Ofgems final continental Europe to the UK.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 22 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Interest rate In North America, the risk of political The Groups policy is to actively manage or regulatory intervention remains an interest rate risk on long-term borrowings uncertainty.
In Texas, electricity competition while ensuring that the exposure to fixed is currently under review by the Legislature rates remains within a 30% to 70% range.
which could potentially lead to changes This is achieved by using derivative in market structure.
In Ontario, we face financial instruments, such as interest large scale electricity customer contract rate swaps, to adjust the interest basis renewals in a regulatory climate that of the portfolio of long-term debt.
At the is somewhat uncertain especially with year-end, debt had been raised on both respect to automatic renewals.
In Alberta a fixed and floating rate basis.
the Department of Energy is mandated to conduct a review regarding the progress Counterparty of the current competitive arrangements.
The Boards policy is to limit counterparty In order to mitigate these risks, we exposures by setting credit limits for each continue to monitor political and regulatory counterparty, where possible by reference developments agendas and engage to published credit ratings.
Exposures are with the relevant stakeholders through measured in relation to the nature, market comprehensive ongoing contact value and maturity of each contract or programmes in place with regulators, financial instrument.
Surplus cash is government ministers and senior officials.
invested in short-term financial instruments and only deposited with counterparties with minimum credit rating of A3 AA-or Financial factors P1 A-1F1 from any Moodys investors served Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings long-term and short-term ratings Liquidity respectively.
Energy trading activities Cash forecasts identifying the liquidity are undertaken with counterparties requirements for the Group are produced for whom specific credit limits are set.
These are stress-tested for All contracted and potential exposures different scenarios and are reviewed are reported to the Financial Risk regularly by the Board to ensure that Management Committee.
sufficient headroom exists for at least a 12-month period.
The Groups policy is Pensions to maintain a minimum level of committed The Group maintains a variety of pension facilities and ensure that a proportion of debt schemes including defined benefit schemes.
should be long-term and spread over a range The pension fund liabilities are partially of maturities.
As at 31 December 2006, the matched with a portfolio of assets, which Group had undrawn committed facilities leaves potential risk around the mortality of 1.3 billion, which were used to support rate, wage inflation and returns on assets.
the US commercial paper programme.
In addition, actions by the Pensions Regulators or the Trustees and or any Currency material revisions to the existing pension Through wholly-owned US and Canadian legislation could require increased subsidiaries and wholly-owned and contributions by the Group to the partly-owned European entities, the pension fund.
Group has operational exposure in US and Canadian dollars and euros.
The Credit rating Groups policy is to maintain the sterling The current strong credit rating of the Group long-term debt: A3 Moodys value of its foreign currency investment Investors Service, Inc. Moodys, through balance sheet hedging A negative outlook Standard & Poors instruments.
Canadian dollar and euro Rating Services S&P : short-term debt: balance sheet translation exposure P-2 Moodys, A-1 negative outlook S&P is hedged by maintaining a portfolio of means that it benefits from high levels of foreign currency financial liabilities which credit for its existing counterparty approximate to the net asset value of relationships.
Any material deterioration the Canadian and euro-based operations.
of this rating will mean that the Group US dollar balance sheet translation will need to increase its levels of security exposure is hedged by borrowing for existing energy procurement contracts on a short-term basis through a US which may have a material effect on its commercial paper programme.
cash position or limit its ability to trade All debt raised in US dollars through in commodity markets.
the US commercial paper programme has been used as part of the translation hedging operations described above.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 23
