172 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 RISK FACTORS RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH For example, during 2004 compared to 2003 course of our activities, we may become FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS and, to a lesser extent, during 2005 compared aware of broad patents owned by others This report contains certain forward-looking to 2004, sales in the US of Losec Prilosec, relating to some of our intellectual property, statements about AstraZeneca.
Although Plendil, Zestril and Nolvadex fell significantly and in some instances we may receive notices we believe our expectations are based on following anticipated patent expiries or the from the owners of patents claiming that their reasonable assumptions, any forward-looking end of marketing exclusivity.
patents may be infringed by the development, statements may be influenced by factors that manufacture or sale of some of our products could cause actual outcomes and results to We believe that we have robust patent and candidate drugs.
In response, we may be materially different from those predicted.
protection for many of our most obtain licences, determine that our products Forward-looking statements are identified in important products.
do not infringe the patents or that the this report by using the words anticipates, patents are not valid, or we may make believes, expects, intends and similar Trade mark protection for our products various modifications that we believe should expressions.
These forward-looking is also an important element of our overall not infringe the patents and that should statements are subject to numerous risks product marketing programmes.
Combined permit commercialisation of our products.
Important factors that with patent protection or other types of could cause actual results to differ materially marketing exclusivity, products protected There can be no assurance that any of our from those in forward-looking statements, by a valid trade mark usually generate higher currently patented products will not be the certain of which are beyond our control, revenues than those not protected by a trade subject of intellectual property litigation in the include, among other things: the loss or mark.
We believe that we have trade mark future, despite our efforts to establish and expiration of patents, marketing exclusivity protection for many of our most important defend the most robust patent protection.
or trade marks: the risk of substantial adverse products.
However, trade mark protection There can be no assurance that we would litigation government investigation claims may be challenged by third parties.
prevail in a patent infringement action: and insufficient insurance coverage: exchange will be able to obtain a licence to any third rate fluctuations: the risk that R&D will not RISK OF PATENT LITIGATION AND EARLY party patent on commercially reasonable yield new products that achieve commercial LOSS OF PATENTS, MARKETING EXCLUSIVITY terms: successfully develop non-infringing success: the risk that strategic alliances will OR TRADE MARKS alternatives on a timely basis: license be unsuccessful: the impact of competition, Over the last few years there has been alternative non-infringing technology, if any price controls and price reductions: taxation a marked increase in intellectual property exists, on commercially reasonable terms: risks: the risk of substantial product liability litigation.
Increasingly, manufacturers of generic or whether patent protection is available at all.
claims: the impact of any failure by third parties pharmaceutical products, whether based in If we are not successful during the patent to supply materials or services: the risk of developing countries, such as those in Asia, protection or data exclusivity periods in failure to manage a crisis: the risk of delay or elsewhere in the world, seek to challenge our maintaining exclusive rights to market one to new product launches: the difficulties of patents or other types of marketing exclusivity or more of our major products, particularly in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals in order to gain access to the market for their the US where we have our highest revenue for products: the risk of failure to observe own generic products.
Furthermore, in addition and margins, our revenue and margins would ongoing regulatory oversight: the risk that to generic manufacturers, the research-based be adversely affected.
new products do not perform as we expect: industry has become more aggressive in the risk of environmental liabilities: the risks recent years in using intellectual property For example, we were involved in litigation in associated with conducting business in rights offensively as an additional basis for the US and elsewhere during 2005 relating to emerging markets: the risk of reputational commercial competition between patented omeprazole, the active ingredient in Losec damage: and the risk of product counterfeiting.
This has included the use of patent Prilosec, and in the US, relating to metoprolol litigation directed at relatively young products succinate, the active ingredient in ToprolXL, RISK OF EXPIRATION OF PATENTS, MARKETING and in the case of litigation both by generic concerning the infringement of certain patents, EXCLUSIVITY OR TRADE MARKS manufacturers and other research-based including formulation patents, by generic Scientific development and technological companies, it is to be expected that the manufacturers.
In January 2006, the US District innovation are crucial if AstraZeneca is to greatest challenges will be focused on the Court for the Eastern District of Missouri issued deliver long-term market success.
In the most valuable products.
a decision holding that certain of our US pharmaceutical market, a drug, diagnostic compound and composition patents relating or medical device is normally only subject Parts of our technology, techniques and to metoprolol succinate are unenforceable to competition from alternative products, proprietary compounds and potential and invalid.
We appealed the District Court for the same use, during the period of patent candidate drugs, including those which are decision to the US Court of Appeals for the protection or other types of marketing in-licensed, may be found to infringe patents Federal Circuit.
Once patent protection or other owned by or granted to others.
This risk may generic manufacturers filed Abbreviated types of marketing exclusivity have expired increase as our focus on biopharmaceuticals New Drug Applications ANDAs with the US the product is generally open to competition increases, as intellectual property questions Food and Drug Administration containing from generic copy products.
Products under related to biological medicines can be paragraph IV certifications alleging invalidity patent protection or other types of marketing extremely complex.
If we cannot resolve any and non-infringement in respect of certain exclusivity usually generate significantly higher intellectual property disputes, we may be of our patents relating to Nexium, Pulmicort revenues than those not protected by patents liable for damages, be required to obtain costly Respules and Seroquel.
Following filing of the or other types of marketing exclusivity.
licences or be stopped from manufacturing, ANDAs, we commenced patent infringement using or selling our products.
During the proceedings against such manufacturers.
RISK FACTORS 173 The more significant patent litigation relating IMPACT OF FLUCTUATIONS IN EXCHANGE RATES Difficulty enrolling patients in clinical trials.
to our products is described in Note 26 to the The results of AstraZenecas operations are Financial Statements.
accounted for in US dollars.
Approximately Our failure to obtain the required regulatory 51% of our 2006 sales were in North America approvals for the product candidate or the In addition to challenges to our patented comprised of the US and Canada with a facilities in which it is manufactured.
products from manufacturers of generic significant proportion of that figure being in or other patented pharmaceutical products, respect of US sales.
The US is, and is expected Adverse reactions to the product candidate there is a risk that some countries, particularly to remain, our largest market.
Sales in certain or indications of other safety concerns.
those in the developing world, may seek to other countries are also in US dollars, or in impose limitations on the availability of patent currencies whose exchange rates are linked Our inability to manufacture sufficient protection for pharmaceutical products, or to the US dollar.
Major components of our quantities of the product candidate for on the extent to which such protection may cost base are, however, located in Europe, development or commercialisation activities be obtained, within their jurisdictions.
where an aggregate of approximately 58% of in a timely and cost-efficient manner.
Movements in the Limitations on the availability of patent exchange rates used to translate foreign Strategic collaborations that we have protection in developing countries or the currencies into US dollars may therefore have entered into may not be successful.
expiration or loss of certain patents, marketing a material adverse effect on AstraZenecas exclusivity or trade marks would have an financial condition and results of operations.
As a result of these complexities and adverse effect on pricing and sales with uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical respect to these products and, consequently, Certain subsidiaries of AstraZeneca import research, it cannot be ensured that compounds could result in a material adverse effect on our and export goods and services in currencies currently under development will achieve financial condition and results of operations.
other than their own functional currency.
For example, in 2006, late-stage The results of such subsidiaries could, development of Galida a potential diabetes RISK OF SUBSTANTIAL ADVERSE OUTCOMES OF therefore, be affected by currency fluctuations therapy and NXY-059 a potential treatment LITIGATION AND GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATIONS arising between the transaction dates and for stroke were discontinued due to failure AND INSUFFICIENT INSURANCE COVERAGE the settlement dates for those transactions.
to meet their target product profiles.
See Note 26 of the Financial Statements We hedge these exposures through financial for a discussion of proceedings in which the instruments.
The fair value of financial STRATEGIC ALLIANCES FORMED AS PART Group is currently involved.
Unfavourable instruments used to hedge these exposures, OF OUR EXTERNALISATION STRATEGY MAY resolution of these and similar future principally forward foreign exchange BE UNSUCCESSFUL proceedings, including government contracts and purchased currency options, We may pursue acquisitions of complementary investigations and securities class action at 31 December 2006 was $45m.
We have businesses, technology licensing arrangements law suits, may have a material adverse effect policies that seek to mitigate the effect of and strategic alliances to expand our product on the Groups financial results, not least exchange rate fluctuations on the value of portfolio and geographic presence as part of because the Group may be required to make foreign currency cash flows and in turn their our business strategy.
Examples of recent significant provisions in its accounts related effects on the results of the various subsidiaries, such strategic alliances include: to legal proceedings and or governmental but we do not seek to remove all such risks.
investigations, which would reduce earnings.
See Financial Review Financial Risk Collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb In many cases, the practice of the plaintiff Management Policies Foreign exchange on Company to develop and commercialise bar is to claim damages compensatory, page 60.
In general, a unilateral strengthening two investigational compounds being punitive and statutory in amounts that may of the US dollar adversely affects our reported studied for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes.
not bear any relation to the underlying harm.
results whereas a weakening of the US dollar Accordingly, it is difficult to quantify the is generally favourable.
We cannot ensure Collaboration with Pozen Inc. to co-develop potential exposure to claims in proceedings that exchange rate fluctuations will not have fixed dose combinations of naproxen and of the type referred to in Note 26.
Recent a material adverse effect on AstraZenecas esomeprazole for chronic pain, utilising insurance loss experience, including financial condition and results of operations Pozens proprietary formulation technology.
pharmaceutical product liability exposures, in the future.
has increased the cost of, and narrowed Agreement with AtheroGenics, Inc. the coverage afforded by, pharmaceutical RISK THAT R&D WILL NOT YIELD NEW PRODUCTS to develop and commercialise their companies insurance generally.
In order to THAT ACHIEVE COMMERCIAL SUCCESS anti-inflammatory cardiovascular contain insurance costs in recent years, the The development of new products involves product candidate for the treatment Group has continued to adjust its coverage the commitment of substantial effort, of atherosclerosis.
profile, accepting a greater degree of uninsured funds and other resources to research and exposure.
In addition, where claims are made development activities, and also involves Acquisition of Cambridge Antibody under insurance policies, insurers may reserve a high degree of risk and can take many Technology Group plc and KuDOS the right to deny coverage on various grounds.
Our product development efforts with Pharmaceuticals Limited.
If denial of coverage is ultimately upheld on respect to any product candidate may fail, these claims, this could result in material and we may ultimately be unable to achieve We may not complete these types of additional charges to the Groups earnings.
commercial success for any number of transactions in a timely manner, on a costreasons, including: effective basis, or at all, and may not realise the expected benefits of any acquisition, licensing arrangement or strategic alliance.
174 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 RISK FACTORS CONTINUED Other companies may also compete with products for future growth, such as Crestor, either to reduce prices or be excluded from us for these strategic opportunities.
When Seroquel and Symbicort, compete directly with the list, thereby losing all the sales revenue we are able to complete these transactions, similar products marketed by some of these from patients covered by that formulary.
the success of these types of arrangements companies.
Increasingly, we also compete In addition, private health insurance whether already existing or to be entered directly with biotechnology companies and companies and employers that self-insure into in the future is largely dependent on the companies that manufacture generic versions have been raising co-payments required technology and other intellectual property of our products following the expiry or loss from beneficiaries, particularly for branded acquired from a business or contributed from of patent protection or other marketing pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products, our strategic partners and the resources, exclusivity.
In addition, some of our patented among other reasons, to encourage efforts and skills of our partners.
Disputes and products, including Nexium, are subject to beneficiaries to utilise generic products.
difficulties in such relationships are common, pricing pressure from competition from The increased use of strict formularies by often due to conflicting priorities or conflicts generic products in the same class.
institutional customers in response to the of interest.
The benefits of these alliances current cost-containment environment and would be reduced or eliminated should In most of the principal markets in which we increasingly restrictive reimbursement policies strategic partners: terminate the agreements: sell our products, there is continued economic, could negatively impact our net revenue.
fail to devote sufficient financial or other regulatory and political pressure to limit the resources to the alliances: or suffer negative cost of pharmaceutical products.
Certain Some governments in Europe, such as Italy outcomes in intellectual property disputes.
groups have been involved in exerting price and Spain, set price controls having regard pressure on pharmaceutical companies to to the medical, economic and social impact If these types of transactions are unsuccessful, ensure medicines are affordable to those of the product.
In other European countries, our operating results will be negatively who need them.
primarily Germany, the UK, the Netherlands impacted.
In addition, integration of an and, more recently, France, governments acquired business could result in the Currently, there is no direct government control have exerted a strong downward pressure incurrence of significant debt and unknown of prices for non-government sales in the US.
on prices by incentives and sanctions to or contingent liabilities, as well as the negative In 1990, however, federal legislation was encourage doctors to prescribe costeffects on our reported results of operations enacted which required drug manufacturers effectively.
For example, in Germany, jumbo from acquisition-related charges, amortisation to agree to substantial rebates in order for reference price groups are formed around of expenses related to intangibles and charges the manufacturers drugs to be reimbursed broad drug classes, such as statins and proton for impairment of long-term assets.
These by state Medicaid programmes, and an pump inhibitors, which include branded effects, individually or in combination, could additional rebate if manufacturer price as well as generic products, resulting in cause a deterioration of our credit rating increases after 1990 exceed the increase significant decreases in reimbursed prices and result in increased borrowing costs and in inflation.
In addition, certain states have for some patented drugs.
In other countries, interest expense.
We could also experience taken action to require further manufacturer such as Italy and Belgium, clawbacks or difficulties in integrating geographically rebates on Medicaid drug utilisation and price cuts have been imposed to recover separated organisations, systems and facilities, for other state pharmaceutical assistance budget overruns from the industry and this and personnel with diverse backgrounds.
For example, some states is a trend that is likely to continue.
Efforts by Integration of an acquired business may permit or require the dispensing pharmacist the European Commission to harmonise the also require management resources that to substitute a less expensive generic drug disparate national systems have met with little would otherwise be available for ongoing instead of an original branded drug.
The industry is, therefore, development of our existing business.
has also enacted statutes that place a ceiling exposed to ad hoc national cost-containment on the price manufacturers may charge US measures on prices and the consequent Under many of our strategic alliances we government agencies, thereby causing cross-border movement of products from make milestone payments well in advance a substantial discount, as well as establishing markets with prices depressed by of commercialisation of products, with no a minimum discount comparable to the governments into those where higher prices assurance that we will ever recoup those Medicaid rebate on manufacturers sales prevail.
See also page 51 for further payments, in which case our operating to certain clinics and hospitals that serve discussion of price regulation in Europe.
results may be negatively affected.
the poor and other populations with special needs.
These government initiatives, together The importation of pharmaceutical products COMPETITION, PRICE CONTROLS with competitive market pressures, have from countries where prices are low due to AND PRICE REDUCTIONS contributed to restraints on realised prices government price controls or other market The principal markets for our pharmaceutical in the US.
dynamics including production of counterfeit products are the Americas, the countries of products, to countries where prices for the European Union EU, Asia Pacific and See also pages 33 Geographic Review and those products are higher may increase.
These markets are highly competitive.
50 Industry Regulation for a discussion of The accession of additional countries from We compete in all of them, and elsewhere the impact of Medicare Part D. Central and Eastern Europe to the EU could in the world, against major prescription result in significant increases in the parallel pharmaceutical companies which, in many In addition, realised prices are being depressed trading of pharmaceutical products.
cases, are able to match or exceed the by pressure from managed care organisations Movements of pharmaceutical products into resources that we have available to us, and institutional purchasers, who use cost the US, in particular from Canada into the particularly in the areas of R&D and marketing considerations to restrict the sale of preferred US, may increase despite the need to meet spend.
Industry consolidation has resulted in drugs that their physicians may prescribe, as current or future safety requirements imposed the formation of a small number of very large well as other competitive activity.
Such limited by regulatory authorities.
The effects of any companies.
Some of our most important lists or formularies may force manufacturers increase in the volume of this cross-border RISK FACTORS 175 movement of products could result in a affect our reputation and demand for our as a result of adverse findings in pre-clinical material adverse effect on AstraZenecas products.
In addition, substantial product or clinical studies, regulatory demands, financial condition and results of operations.
liability claims that are not covered by competitor activity and technology transfer.
insurance could have a material adverse Any delay to the anticipated launch dates There is formal central government control effect on AstraZenecas financial condition may therefore impact AstraZenecas business of prices in Japan.
New product prices are and results of operations.
We are currently and operations in a number of ways.
In 2004 for determined primarily by comparison with subject to extensive product liability litigation, example, we made provisions of $236 million existing products for the same medical particularly in relation to Seroquel.
See Note following setbacks suffered by Exanta and condition.
All existing products are subject 26 of the Financial Statements.
Significant delay to the anticipated to a price review at least every two years.
launch dates of new products could have Regulations introduced in 2000 included RISK OF RELIANCE ON THIRD PARTIES FOR a material adverse effect on AstraZenecas provisions allowing a drugs price to be set SUPPLIES OF MATERIALS AND SERVICES financial condition and results of operations.
according to the average price of the product Like most, if not all, major prescription in four major countries the US, the UK, pharmaceutical companies, in some of DIFFICULTIES OF OBTAINING AND MAINTAINING Germany and France.
its key business operations, such as the REGULATORY APPROVALS FOR NEW PRODUCTS manufacture, formulation and packaging AstraZeneca is subject to strict controls on We expect that pressures on pricing will of products, AstraZeneca relies on third the manufacture, labelling, distribution and continue and may increase.
Because of parties for the timely supply of specified raw marketing of pharmaceutical products.
these pressures, there can be no certainty materials, equipment, contract manufacturing, The requirement to obtain regulatory approval that in every instance we will be able to formulation or packaging services and based on safety, efficacy and quality, charge prices for a product that, in a maintenance services.
Although we actively before such products may be marketed in particular country or in the aggregate, manage these third party relationships to a particular country, and to maintain and to enable us to earn an adequate return on ensure continuity of supplies on time and comply with licences and other regulations our investment in that product.
to our required specifications, some events relating to their manufacture, are particularly beyond our control could result in the complete important.
The submission of an application TAXATION or partial failure of supplies or in supplies not to a regulatory authority does not guarantee The integrated nature of AstraZenecas being delivered on time.
Any such failure could that approval to market the products will worldwide operations can produce conflicting have a material adverse effect on AstraZenecas be granted.
The countries that constitute claims from revenue authorities as to the financial condition and results of operations.
material markets for our pharmaceutical profits to be taxed in individual territories.
products include the US, the countries of the The resolution of these disputes can result in RISK OF FAILURE TO MANAGE A CRISIS EU and Japan.
Approval of such products is a reallocation of profits between jurisdictions AstraZeneca handles toxic materials, runs required by the relevant regulatory authority and an increase or decrease in related tax costs.
manufacturing plants and distributes products in each country, although a single pan-EU, This is a continuing risk for AstraZeneca which worldwide.
Major disruption to business and marketing authorisation approval can be is unlikely to change in the foreseeable future.
damage to reputation may be triggered by an obtained through a centralised mutual operational incident or actions by third parties.
In addition, each AstraZeneca operates in many jurisdictions, In these circumstances, a well-tried and jurisdiction has very high standards of the majority of which have double tax treaties tested plan for addressing operational and regulatory approval and, consequently, with other foreign jurisdictions, which enable other issues should ensure a timely response in most cases, a lengthy approval process.
AstraZenecas revenues and capital gains to and the ability to resume business as usual.
In recent years, the public and various escape a double tax charge.
If any of these Failure to institute proper communication governments appear to apply more double tax treaties should be withdrawn or to internal and external stakeholders and conservative benefit risk criteria in relation amended, in a territory where a member of the mobilise a rapid operational response to pharmaceutical products of the type sold AstraZeneca Group is involved in a taxation could have a material adverse effect on by companies such as ours than in the past.
dispute with a tax authority in relation to AstraZenecas financial condition and results This apparent trend could in the future result cross-border transactions, such withdrawal, of operations.
in even more stringent requirements, amendment or a negative outcome of such including more difficult approval processes disputes could have a material adverse effect RISK OF DELAY TO NEW PRODUCT LAUNCHES for our products.
Furthermore, each on AstraZenecas financial condition and AstraZenecas continued success depends regulatory authority may impose its own results of operations.
on the development and successful launch of requirements and may refuse to grant, or innovative new drugs.
The anticipated launch may require additional data before granting RISK OF SUBSTANTIAL PRODUCT dates of major new products have a significant or as a condition to granting, an approval, LIABILITY CLAIMS impact on a number of areas of our business, even though the relevant product has been Given the widespread impact prescription including investment in large clinical trials, approved in another country.
Post-marketing drugs may have on the health of large patient the manufacture of pre-launch stocks of the studies involving our marketed products populations, pharmaceutical and medical products and the timing of anticipated future whether conducted by us or by others, device companies have, historically, been revenue streams from commercial sales of and whether or not mandated by regulatory subject to large product liability damages the products.
These launch dates are primarily agencies, as well as other emerging data claims, settlements and awards for injuries driven by the development programmes that about marketed products such as adverse allegedly caused by the use of their products.
we run and the demands of the regulatory event reports, could lead to a loss of approval, Product liability claims, regardless of their authorities in the approvals process, as well changes in product labelling or concerns merits or their outcome, are costly, divert as pricing negotiation in some countries.
about the side effects or efficacy of a product management attention, and may adversely Delays in anticipated launch dates can arise wherever it is marketed.
For example, in 176 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 RISK FACTORS CONTINUED February 2006 we decided to withdraw has been tested and the relatively small number EMERGING MARKETS Exanta from the market and terminate its of patients who have taken the product, the Growing our business in emerging markets development as a result of new patient safety available data may be immature.
Simple may be a critical factor in determining our data from a clinical trial, which involved the extrapolation of the data may not be accurate future ability to sustain or increase the level use of Exanta for a longer duration of therapy and could lead to a misleading interpretation of our global product revenues.
Challenges than was then approved for marketing.
of a new products likely future commercial that arise in relation to the development of In addition although the Japanese regulatory performance.
See further discussion of the business in emerging markets include, authority granted approval for Crestor, product safety and efficacy in the Managing but are not limited to, competition from this was conditional on a post-marketing Risk section of this report.
companies that are already present in the surveillance programme being carried out.
market, the need to correctly identify and New data about our products, or products The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical leverage appropriate opportunities for sales similar to our products, could negatively product involves a substantial investment in and marketing, poor protection over intellectual impact demand for our products and our sales and marketing costs, launch stocks and property, inadequate protection against crime net profit due to real or perceived safety or other items.
If a new product does not succeed including counterfeiting, corruption and fraud, efficacy concerns.
as anticipated or its rate of sales growth is inadvertent breaches of local law regulation slower than anticipated, there is a risk that and not being able to recruit sufficient RISK OF FAILURE TO OBSERVE ONGOING the costs incurred in launching it could have personnel with appropriate skills and REGULATORY OVERSIGHT a material adverse effect on AstraZenecas experience.
The failure to exploit potential AstraZenecas products are only licensed financial condition and results of operations.
opportunities appropriately in emerging following exhaustive regulatory approval markets may have a material adverse effect processes and only for a specified therapeutic ENVIRONMENTAL OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & on AstraZenecas financial condition and indication or indications.
Once a product is SAFETY LIABILITIES results of operations.
licensed, it is subject to ongoing control AstraZeneca has environmental liabilities at and regulation, such as the manner of its some currently or formerly owned, leased REPUTATION STRATEGY manufacture, distribution, marketing and and third party sites in the US, as described There is considerable public sentiment against safety surveillance.
In addition, facilities in in more detail on pages 135 and 136.
There is the pharmaceuticals industry, and the industry which products are produced are subject no reason for us to believe that associated is under the close scrutiny of the public, to ongoing inspections, and minor changes current and expected expenditure and risks the media and other stakeholders.
Rising in manufacturing processes may require are likely to have a material adverse effect on expectations are especially noteworthy in additional regulatory approvals, either of AstraZenecas financial condition and results the areas of improving access to medicines which could cause us to incur significant of operations as a general matter, although for the underprivileged, both in our established additional costs and lose revenue.
Regulatory they could, to the extent that they exceed markets and in less-developed nations: authorities have wide-ranging administrative applicable provisions, have a material adverse business conduct in our supply chain: fair powers to deal with any failure to comply with effect on AstraZenecas financial condition marketing practices: bio-ethical challenges: their ongoing regulatory oversight whether and results of operations for the relevant working conditions: human rights: and animal such failure is by us or third parties with which period.
In addition, a change in circumstances rights.
Whilst we seek to manage these risks we have relationships.
These powers include including a change in applicable laws or through various pro-active measures, there withdrawal of a licence approval previously regulations may result in such a material can be no assurance that in the future such granted, product recalls, seizure of products adverse effect.
Although we take great care risks will not cause our financial condition or and other sanctions for non-compliance.
to ensure that we maintain compliance with results of operations to be materially affected.
Regulatory sanction, following a failure to all applicable environmental, health and safety comply with such ongoing regulatory oversight, laws, regulations, licences and permits at PRODUCT COUNTERFEITING could have a material adverse effect on each of our operating facilities, a significant See Managing Risk section on page 46.
AstraZenecas financial condition and results non-compliance or incident for which we were of operations.
In addition, because our responsible could result in AstraZeneca products are intended to promote the health being liable to pay compensation, fines or of patients, any supply interruption could lead remediation costs.
In some circumstances, to allegations that the public health has been such liability could have a material adverse endangered, and could subject us to lawsuits.
effect on AstraZenecas financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, our PERFORMANCE OF NEW PRODUCTS financial provisions for any obligations that Although we carry out numerous and extensive we may have relating to environmental clinical trials on all our products before they liabilities may be insufficient if the assumptions are launched, for a new product it can be underlying the provisions including our difficult, for a period following its launch, assumptions regarding the portion of waste to establish from available data a complete at a site for which we are responsible prove assessment of its eventual efficacy and or incorrect, or if we are held responsible for safety in broader clinical use on the market.
Due to the relatively short time that a product
