DIRECTORS REPORT 45 Business Review MANAGING RISK CORE TO OUR CONTINUED SUCCESS IS OUR ABILITY TO IDENTIFY group to identify the major portfolio risks and reviewed by the Product Review Board twice AND EFFECTIVELY MANAGE THE RISKS TO OUR BUSINESS, BE a year.
This continuing focus is aimed at THEY STRATEGIC, OPERATIONAL, COMPLIANCE, REPUTATIONAL, ensuring we deliver as quickly as possible high-quality, safe and effective new medicines FINANCIAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL.
that meet regulatory requirements, are launched successfully, and make a difference Backed by our Group Risk & Control Policy, BRINGING A NEW MEDICINE TO MARKET for patients worldwide.
The changes we made we continue to integrate risk management The path to a new medicine is a long, complex, to our operating model to simplify our project across all business functions, to ensure expensive and risky process.
processes in 2005 should continue to managers understand the importance of strengthen governance and risk management.
identifying business risks and how they Research and development Strategic investment continues to be focused should be managed.
Appropriate tools Every new medicine is the result of an intensive on areas directly linked to increased quality include a risk management framework that all discovery and development process, taking and number of new products.
In Discovery, managers can use to recognise, assess and between eight and 12 years and typically we continue to aim to increase the output of actively manage the challenges in their areas.
costing over $800 million per product.
high-quality candidate drugs with a lower risk Thousands of compounds are investigated of failure in development.
Risk identification, evaluation and mitigation are for their potential to become a new medicine: facilitated by the Integrated Risk Management however, only a small number succeed PERFORMANCE OF A NEW MEDICINE IRM team of risk management professionals.
because of the demanding criteria of the AstraZenecas financial performance can be The IRM team supports the Risk Advisory ongoing selection process, which centres impacted if a new product does not succeed Group RAG, which is led by the Chief on safety and efficacy in patients.
Our as anticipated, or its sales growth is slower Financial Officer and consists of representatives externalisation and biologics strategies than predicted.
The commercial success of from each business function.
The role of the described in more detail elsewhere in this our new medicines is of particular importance RAG continues to be advisory and is to report are part of our approach to managing to us in order to replace sales lost as and assist senior management in identifying this risk by supplementing and enhancing our when patent protection expires in major and assessing our main business risks in a internal organic, small-molecule discovery markets for established marketed products.
It focuses in particular and development efforts.
However, it should on cross-functional risks, agreeing what are be recognised that both are relatively new Competition and price pressure the most significant risks affecting the capabilities for AstraZeneca.
In all our markets, we compete against major organisation and the industry, linking risk prescription pharmaceutical companies that management to business performance Regulatory approval in many cases are able to match or exceed reporting and sharing best practice across Before a new medicine can be launched the resources we have available to us, the organisation to drive continuous on the market, we are required to obtain particularly in the areas of research and improvement in this area.
The RAG reports regulatory approval, based on its safety, marketing investment.
Some of our key twice a year to the Senior Executive Team, efficacy and quality.
The submission of an growth products, such as Crestor, compete and its reports on the Companys risk profile application to regulatory authorities which directly with similar products marketed by are reviewed annually by both the Audit are different, with different requirements, in some of these companies.
We also compete Committee and the Board.
Members of the each country does not guarantee approval with biotechnology companies and companies IRM team are deployed, where appropriate, to market.
Regulators can refuse to grant who manufacture generic versions of our to assist senior managers in identifying, approval or may require additional data before products following patent expiry.
In most of assessing and developing strategies for approval is given, even though the medicine our markets, there is continued economic, managing risk in their respective areas of may already be launched in other countries.
regulatory and political pressure to limit the responsibility.
The team also carries out a cost of pharmaceuticals.
For more information, rolling programme of training staff in effective Launch see page 50 Industry Regulation and integrated risk management and develops The anticipated launch dates of major new page 174 Risk Factors.
networks for the sharing and embedding of medicines have a significant impact on a best practice.
number of areas of our business, including We continue to focus on developing investment in large clinical trials, the differentiated products that offer improved The main areas of risk that AstraZeneca faces manufacture of pre-launch stocks, investment treatment options to meet patient needs and are discussed below.
Many of these areas in marketing materials ahead of a product bring economic benefit to healthcare systems.
of risk are also discussed elsewhere in this launch, sales force training and the timing of When setting the price of a medicine, we aim report.
See also the description of Risk Factors anticipated revenue from commercial sales of to reflect its full value to customers, patients on pages 172 to 176 and the discussion of new products.
Any significant delay to launch and society in general.
Our pricing will also internal controls and management of risk could therefore have an adverse effect on our take account of the fact that, as a publiclyon page 75 Governance.
owned company, we have a duty to ensure that we continue to deliver value for our As discussed in more detail elsewhere in this shareholders.
We balance many different report, we continue to focus on improving the factors, including ensuring appropriate patient productivity of our discovery and development access, in our global pricing policy, which processes.
For example, each individual provides the framework for optimising the project maintains a risk log together with risk profitability of our products in a sustainable way.
These individual project risks are aggregated by the portfolio management 46 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 MANAGING RISK CONTINUED Intellectual property Drug safety managers in each of our national products as a result of counterfeiting could It is our policy to apply for intellectual property companies have local responsibility for product have an adverse impact on AstraZenecas protection for all inventions and innovations safety within their respective countries.
created as a result of the investments in R&D throughout the AstraZeneca Product liability claims AstraZeneca uses a range of measures to organisation.
We vigorously defend our Given the widespread impact that medicines protect against counterfeit medicines, and intellectual property rights, including taking may have on the health of large patient continues to develop its capability in this area: appropriate infringement action in various populations, pharmaceutical companies courts throughout the world.
Obtaining have historically been subject to large product We are introducing technologies that adequate protection for the intellectual liability damages claims, settlements and make copying our products more difficult property associated with our significant awards for injuries allegedly caused by the use for counterfeiters.
investment in R&D activities continues to of their products.
Adverse publicity relating to be a key business imperative.
The range of the safety of a product or of other competing We conduct market surveillance and protection includes patents, trade marks, products may increase the risk of product monitor the supply chain to identify design registrations, copyright and internet liability claims.
See further discussion on potential counterfeiting operations.
page 175 Risk Factors and an update on ongoing product liability claims in Note 26 We respond rapidly to any reports of There are many different types of challenges Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.
counterfeit AstraZeneca medicines, to our intellectual property rights.
Generic working with regulators, healthcare companies continue to seek early market SUPPLY professionals, distributors, law enforcement access for their own generic competing As part of our overall risk management, we agencies and other organisations to products.
Increasingly, research-based carefully consider the timing of investment to ensure patient interests are protected.
companies are challenging each others ensure that secure supply chains are in place intellectual property rights.
See further for our products see page 44.
We participate in a variety of antidiscussion on page 172 Risk Factors.
counterfeiting forums in the public and In addition, we may be impacted by SUPPLIERS private sector, including the World Health government actions, particularly in developing In common with most, if not all, pharmaceutical Organizations International Medical countries, aimed at limiting the value of companies, in some of our areas of activity Products Anti-Counterfeiting Task Force intellectual property rights in the interests we increasingly rely on third parties, such as IMPACT Working Group.
for the supply of raw materials, equipment, manufacturing, formulation or packaging ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES Product safety and efficacy services and maintenance services.
We actively Our internal programmes and management Although we carry out extensive clinical trials manage our relationships with our suppliers to systems help to ensure that we operate our before a new product is launched, these trials ensure they deliver on time and to our required business in compliance with applicable cannot replicate the complete range of patient specifications.
However, some events beyond environmental laws, regulations, licences and circumstances that exist among much larger our control could result in an interruption to permits.
A significant environmental, health patient populations.
It takes time in broader supply that could affect business continuity or safety event associated with our own or clinical use following launch of a new medicine and impact our financial performance.
a key suppliers operations could have an to be able to establish a more complete adverse effect on our financial performance, assessment of its eventual efficacy and or COUNTERFEITING and we strive to operate our business safety and likely future commercial Counterfeit medicines are a danger to patients continuously in a manner that mitigates performance.
We have comprehensive and all over the world, as they may contain harmful this risk.
AstraZeneca has environmental rigorous systems in place for detecting and excipients or the wrong dose of the active  liabilities at some rapidly evaluating adverse events, and for ingredient or none at all.
The most recent formerly owned sites in the US and elsewhere taking any action that may be required, authoritative surveys have estimated that relating to historic operations see pages 135 including communicating with the relevant approximately 10% of medicines in emerging and 136, but these are carefully managed by regulatory authorities.
We also strive to identify economies are counterfeit, and this rises designated technical, legal and business whether particular types of patients may be to over 20% in many of the former Soviet personnel, and we believe they are unlikely to more susceptible to the risks associated with republics and as high as 30% in parts of have a material adverse effect on our financial a particular drug, and what the early indicators Latin America, Asia and Africa.
By contrast, position and results of operations.
of this might be, so that side effects can be in developed countries with effective regulatory avoided or minimised in these patients.
systems, counterfeits represent less than 1% CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS of the market.
As a global business, currency fluctuations can We have an experienced, in-house team of significantly affect our results.
Our functional over 500 clinical drug safety professionals It is in the public interest that patients are made and reporting currency is US dollars as this is working across AstraZeneca and dedicated properly aware of the risks of counterfeit our most significant currency, but we have to the task of ensuring that we meet our medicines and of the industrys determination substantial exposures to other currencies, in commitment to drug safety throughout the to work closely with national and international particular, significant euroand Japanese yenprocesses described above.
Each of our authorities to combat the problem.
Undue or denominated income and sterlingand Swedish products whether in development or on the misplaced fear or anxiety about the issue krona-denominated costs see page 60 for market has an assigned global drug safety might induce some patients to stop taking more information.
For information on how we physician who, supported by a team of drug their medicines, with consequential risks to manage these risks, see Notes 14 and 15 to safety scientists, is responsible for that their health.
In addition, public loss of the Financial Statements on pages 114 products continuous safety surveillance.
confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical and 115.
