Riskmanagement How we manage risk In common with all businesses, the management of risk is key to the achievement of the groups fi financial objectives.
Managing risk helps to reduce the chance of losses and enables the Company to enhance its performance when the right opportunities arise.
We have identifi ed fi five principal areas of risk and these, together with the steps we take to mitigate them, are shown in the table below.
Risk Mitigation Business strategy Implementation of a strategy inconsistent with the We commission and evaluate research into the economy and market environment.
investment and occupational markets and use this to prepare an annual Business Plan and regular fi financial forecasts.
Over-concentration of activities and investment exposure Hammersons portfolio is diversifi ed by country and sector and its in particular markets.
Property investment Acquisition of properties that fail to meet performance expectations.
Acquisitions are thoroughly evaluated, including due diligence reviews.
Opportunities for the sale of underperforming properties are missed.
The performance of individual properties is benchmarked against target returns, adjusted for risk.
Property development Poor control of the development programme and failure to address Detailed analysis, including market research, is undertaken prior investment and occupational market risks.
to the approval of each development project.
The groups overall exposure to developments is monitored and projects phased.
A programme of post completion reviews ensures potential improvements to processes are identifi ed.
Business organisation and human resources Failure to recruit and retain key staff with appropriate skills and calibre.
Recruitment procedures and the remuneration structure are regularly reviewed and benchmarked..
Succession plans are developed for senior positions.
Treasury Breach of borrowings covenants, triggering repayment.
Financial ratios are monitored and regularly reported to the Board.
Insuffi cient liquidity to progress the development programme.
Future investment requirements are reviewed and suffi cient facilities put in place in advance.
Adverse currency or interest rate movements.
Fixed rate borrowings are used where appropriate and foreign currency denominated assets fi nanced by borrowings in the same currency.
