1 2 3 6 5 4 89 Risk Management All organisations face risks as they conduct their 4.
Develop action plans to manage risks We believe that these risks have the greatest operations and Land Securities is no different.
Reassess risks after mitigating actions have potential impact on the organisation should We need to understand and evaluate the risks in been taken they occur and for this reason merit comment.
order to achieve our objective of creating long- 6.
Report to the Board on risks, extent of term, sustainable returns for shareholders.
This mitigation and status of action plans There are also other risks that we face as an will allow us to minimise the adverse potential organisation many of which are inherent to all that measured risk taking presents rather than At both Group and business unit level we businesses and which we believe have a lesser prevent us from taking measured risk.
Risk categorise risks across the four areas of external, impact on us as an organisation which we refer management is an important part of our organisational, property and operational.
to in a less structured fashion throughout the system of internal controls and has linkages We rate each of these in terms of probability Annual Report.
In respect to Social Ethical and with each of the other elements of this business of occurrence, its impact on our performance Environmental risks, our key risks are outlined in planning process, particularly the investment and we identify mitigating actions, risk control the CR section.
appraisal and financial forecasting processes.
In the table below we list our business risks and We have in place a six step risk management This year throughout the OFR we provide provide a cross reference to the relevant section process: detailed disclosure in respect to certain of these of the OFR and to other sources of information risks particularly those in respect to owning such as our 2006 CR Report.
Contextualise risk in terms of the Groups property: developing property and property covered elsewhere we provide a brief business goals and objectives outsourcing as well as our key financial risks.
explanation as to mitigating activities.
Identify material risks This disclosure includes commentary on type 3.
Assess and quantify the risks identied of risk, risk impact and mitigating activity.
Risk management process Business risks Risk group Type of risk Explained in External factors Economic Business environment Regulatory Chairmans statement and competitive environment Market Business environment, Retail, London Portfolio and property outsourcing Goals and Planning Developing property objectives Customer Owning property, Retail, London Portfolio, property outsourcing and customer section Organisational People Our people, corporate responsibility, 2006 CR Report Succession planning We review succession plans on at least an annual basis.
We also have in and talent management place a learning and development programme to nurture talent across the organisation Identify Property Asset management Owning property Investment Owning property Development Developing property Construction management Developing property Supplier management Property outsourcing Service delivery Property management, property outsourcing Reassess Report Assess Contract mobilisation Property outsourcing Operational Finance Finance review and notes to financial statements Customer satisfaction Retail, London Portfolio and property outsourcing Health and safety Owning property, developing property, corporate responsibility Environment Corporate responsibility and 2006 CR Report Information technology To protect the integrity of our IT system from external threats, we have in Action place stringent security controls.
In the event of system failures we have an off-site back-up facility which can be fully operational in 24 hours Disaster planning We have in place comprehensive disaster recovery plans which include the use of off-site facilities.
These plans are regularly updated and rehearsed Ethics Corporate responsibility Land Securities Annual Report 2006
