DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 27 Business Review Risk Management The procedures adopted by the Group to waste-to-energy plant, thereby taking Serious breaches of the law or advantage of the greater efficiency of the manage its key risks and comply with the other regulations guidance of the Turnbull Committee are CHP process and benefiting from long-term The Groups Key Corporate Values, which energy supply contracts: described in the Corporate Governance section are described in more detail in the Corporate on pages 33 to 35.
The Groups exposure to Social Responsibility Review on page 29 and focusing our operational development and individual risks is limited and diversified by are available in full on the Groups website, investment on our most energy-efficient the fact that it has several distinct types of require all employees to comply with all plants while withdrawing from the least relevant laws and regulations in the countries activity, with 27 business sectors operating energy-efficient operations, such as from over 100 operating sites in 16 different in which it operates.
The Group recognises the Sudbrook Mill, which was closed in risk that substantial fines, or other penalties, countries, and it sells to a broad range of April 2006: may be imposed for non-compliance with customers.
Any significant commercial and laws and regulations relating to competition, reducing our energy usage across the Group other risks that are specific to a business environmental, health and safety or other through energy-saving projects, including segment are described within the narrative matters, and has control mechanisms and investment in more energy-efficient boilers on that segment.
The principal Group-wide systems in place for monitoring compliance.
and electronic controls for heating and key risks and the way they are managed are It also carries out training programmes for described below.
The Group mitigates its risk lighting systems.
The Groups sites employees and has systems in place to share consumed 6% less energy in 2005 06 exposure through an insurance programme expertise and best practice on these matters.
that covers property and liability risks where compared with 2004 05: The Group has a workplace malpractice it is relevant and cost-effective to do so.
developing further our centralised energy policy and a process for employees across purchasing operations in the UK and Movements in foreign exchange rates and its international operations to report any France.
This approach enables us to obtain interest rates suspected wrongdoing in confidence, These risks and the way in which they economies of scale in buying and to apply where such reporting is permitted by law.
high levels of expertise, including using the are managed through the Groups Treasury Political instability Committee and its subsidiary committees application of the increasingly sophisticated Profits from the Groups wholly-owned price-hedging methods that are available: and or groups are described on pages 24 and 25. operations are not subject to any significant The funding position on the Groups dened monitoring regulatory developments in the degree of political risk as they are almost energy market and collaborating with other benefit pension schemes and the consequent entirely located in countries which are members impact of any deficit on corporate activity of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation heavy energy users in the paper and other industry sectors to influence government The funding on the Groups defined benefit and Development OECD, members of which schemes is sensitive to a number of factors, as are committed to democratic government and on energy policy and the operation of the the market economy.
The Groups profits energy markets.
The Group faces the risk that this funding position will deteriorate from associated undertakings, which were Volatility of pricing and availability 4.1 million in 2005 06, are currently exposed over time, in particular if actual longevity of globally traded raw materials to some political risk as they are substantially exceeds current assumptions and investment In 2005 06, the Group purchased over derived from OJSC Rubezhansk, a paper and returns are lower than expected.
The Group and 70 million of waste paper and approximately corrugated packaging business located in the schemes trustees seek to mitigate this risk 80 million of polymers and films as the the Ukraine, a country which has recently through the schemes investment strategy and principal raw materials in its Paper and Plastic experienced political instability.
The through increasing the contributions made to Packaging businesses, respectively.
These Groups ability to manage this risk is also the scheme by both the members and the products are globally traded and subject reduced since it has influence, rather than Group.
The regulatory environment for pension to variations in supply and demand which control, over these operations.
The Group schemes and their trustees has changed in recent result in volatility in their pricing.
The Group maintains a close relationship with local years, in particular with the Pensions Act 2004: endeavours to recover any raw material cost management and regular visits are made to the presence of a deficit in the schemes may increases from its customers through price the Ukraine by Group executives to ensure now oblige the trustees or possibly the rises.
Approximately one-third of the Groups a good understanding of the business and Pensions Regulator to seek some further corrugated and plastic packaging customer the Ukrainian political situation.
funding of the scheme in the event of a contracts include arrangements to link selling significant corporate action.
Volatility and increasing energy prices prices to an index of raw material prices.
The The Groups exposure to energy costs is achievement of price increases for the majority The continuing availability of borrowing described on page 24.
We are managing facilities, including compliance with of our Packaging business is substantially energy costs through a five point strategy: determined by the state of supply and demand borrowing covenants The Groups borrowing facilities and their in the relevant market at any time.
Due to maximising in-house energy generation management through the Treasury Committee from our combined heat and power CHP the variety of contractual arrangements are described on pages 24 and 25. plants in the UK and France and a UK with customers, margins may be squeezed 28 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Business Review Risk Management continued for a period of time until price increases are achieved to recover input cost increases.
The Groups Severnside Recycling business collects and trades waste paper to ensure a continuous cost-competitive supply to the Groups paper mills.
It achieves this through long-term contracts with major suppliers of waste paper and the collection of waste from smaller suppliers through its network of collection depots.
Of the Groups total polymer and film purchases in 2005 06, polycarbonate, polypropylene and high density polyethylene accounted for approximately 40% with the remainder comprising a large number of different polymers and films.
The Group has a high level of expertise in polymer purchasing and uses a range of suppliers to ensure it is purchasing at competitive prices.
Product liability The Groups packaging products, many of which are supplied into the food and beverage industries, may give rise to potentially substantial product liability claims in the event of a failure of the packaging to perform its function when in use or from contamination of the product contained by the packaging.
The potential for such claims is reduced by the fact that the majority of the Groups packaging is used as secondary, or transit, packaging and does not come into direct contact with the products it protects.
The Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure the safety and adequate performance levels of its packaging through design, manufacturing control processes, technical testing and other means while having appropriate product liability insurances in place.
It also looks to minimise its product liability risk through its terms and conditions of trading.
Social, environmental and ethical SEE matters The Groups management of SEE risks is described in the Corporate Social Responsibility Review on pages 29 to 32.
