2 23 3 F Fiillt tr ro on na a p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 06 6 w ww ww w.. fi fillt tr ro on na a.. c co om m Business Review Analysis of Principal Risks In any business there are a number of risks and uncertainties Risk assessment, evaluation and mitigation are essential parts of the which could have an impact on its long-term performance.
annual planning cycle and important aspects of the Filtrona internal Filtrona has a risk management process in place which is control system.
designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
The ability to monitor, assess and respond to these business risks can Filtrona recognises that the risks and uncertainties facing its business often provide competitive advantage and hence Filtronas resources are constantly changing and has embedded risk management into its are carefully managed in this area.
More details of the Companys risk business processes.
management processes are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 45.
Risk Management response Disruption to distribution or production facilities and Disruption to distribution or production facilities and information systems information systems Filtrona would be adversely affected if there was a significant failure Many of Filtronas manufacturing processes are carried out in more of one or more of its major production facilities, including the loss than one location and hence the Company has the ability to of tooling or of a major part of its supply chain.
Disruption may be mitigate this risk in part by meeting production requirements with caused by industrial disputes, fire, information systems failure or the use of alternative manufacturing sites.
The Company continues to invest in the provision of fire protection systems to minimise the risk of tooling losses.
Risk Management response Identification and successful integration of acquisitions Identification and successful integration of acquisitions The rate of any future growth that Filtrona may achieve will in part be Filtrona has a central corporate development team focused on dependent on making acquisitions.
Filtrona has in the past made identifying and completing the acquisition of value enhancing and successfully integrated a number of acquisitions but there can businesses in selected niche markets.
The corporate development be no assurance that Filtrona will be able to identify, complete and team reports regularly to the Executive Committee and Board.
integrate successfully suitable acquisitions in the future.
24 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Business Review Analysis of Principal Risks Risk Management response Retirement benefits Retirement benefits Volatile capital markets could create a shortfall in funding of The major schemes are regularly reviewed in consultation with retirement benefits.
Filtrona maintains various retirement benefit plans independent actuaries and pension trustees to ensure that costs for employees that are funded through investments in equities, bonds are controlled and that employee benefits are reasonable and and other investments, the value of which is dependent on world competitive.
Actions are taken when required.
Filtrona may be required to provide additional funding to cover any shortfalls in the benefit plan funding, arising from falls in the value of these investments.
Any significant additional funding requirements could adversely impact the Companys financial position.
There is a risk that increasing life expectancy and falling equity and bond returns will result in a significant rise in Filtronas liabilities.
Risk Management response Competitive pressures Competitive pressures Filtronas niche market positions may be impacted by the Filtrona actively works with its customers and suppliers to find competitive actions of third parties.
innovative ways to meet changing demands in order to remain at the forefront of its selected markets.
Filtronas reputation and value proposition centres around service, expertise and the breadth of the product offering rather than one of strictly competing on price.
Risk Management response Product liability claims Product liability claims Like any other manufacturer, Filtrona faces the inherent risk of Filtrona has quality assurance systems designed to ensure the exposure to product liability claims if the products supplied by highest standards for its customers.
Filtrona currently maintains Filtrona fail to meet specification or the required standard.
product liability insurance at levels thought to be appropriate in If Filtrona does not have adequate insurance, product liability relation to the products manufactured or sold by the Company, claims and costs associated with product recalls, including loss of with the exception of cigarette filters, for which product liability business, could have a material adverse effect on Filtronas insurance, as for other cigarette components, is not available.
business, its operating results and its financial position.
There can be no guarantee that this insurance will continue to be available at reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover product liability claims against Filtrona.
Risk Management response Customer base Customer base In some of Filtronas businesses, the market, and hence the The development of further innovative products and services customer base, is relatively concentrated.
This is true primarily of should strengthen Filtronas reputation and relationships across Filtronas cigarette filter and tear tape businesses.
Should the its customer base.
customers of Filtrona decide to satisfy their requirements internally or from other suppliers, and if Filtrona were unable to win other customer orders, this could result in a significant loss of business and a resulting adverse effect on Filtronas operating results.
25 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Risk Management response Relationship with the tobacco industry Relationship with the tobacco industry A significant part of Filtronas business relates to the supply of Filtronas strategy is continually to offer innovative added value cigarette filters and tear tape to manufacturers in the tobacco products and services targeted towards growth areas within the industry.
Accordingly the future performance of Filtronas cigarette tobacco industry.
Faster growing non tobacco businesses may filters and tear tape businesses may be affected by changes in reduce Filtronas exposure to this risk over time and there is conditions within those sections of the tobacco industry which currently no reason to believe that regulation specific to the they supply, such as in the consumption of cigarettes, demand tobacco industry is likely to cause a material adverse or rapid for different types of cigarette and in regulations affecting change in demand for Filtronas cigarette filters and tear tape.
Whilst Filtrona has no history of involvement in tobacco related litigation, it could be adversely affected by the incidence of such litigation.
Risk Management response International operations International operations Filtrona has principal operations in North America and Europe Filtrona believes that the benefits of its geographical spread together with facilities in Asia and South America.
There are outweigh the associated risks.
The portfolio effect of economic particular risks arising from managing operations internationally conditions, exchange rates and other associated factors of having including: operations worldwide provide some protection in terms of the longterm performance of Filtrona.
fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect the reported operating results and financial position: The Company seeks to manage its foreign currency risk and the changes in tax regulation and international tax treaties could steps it takes are described in the Financial Review on pages 20 affect the financial performance of foreign operations: and to 22.
The Company actively works with its taxation advisors to changes in other regulations treaties may also affect the ability of minimise its tax exposure and risk.
Filtrona to repatriate profits from its foreign operations.
The risk management processes within the Company seek to identify The Companys strategy involves manufacture in low cost and mitigate the risks associated with any transition to new facilities.
Filtrona may be adversely affected by political and economic conditions in some of these production locations.
Filtrona continually seeks opportunities to increase its business Transition towards these locations may also give rise to other diversity and has programmes in place to share best practice execution risks normally associated with such moves, including delays across its international operations.
to the start of production, product quality and the establishment of new distribution channels and other unforeseen factors.
The principal risks faced by Filtrona and its management response thereto are summarised in this analysis.
Not all these factors are within the Companys control.
There may be other risks and uncertainties which are unknown to the Company or which may not be deemed material now but which could turn out to be material in the future.
