FORTY The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Management of risks and uncertainties The following risks could materially affect the groups business, its financial position, the results of its operations and its share price.
Controls are put in place for the mitigation of internal risks and management seek to identify risks that are not within its control.
The geographic spread of the business, diversity of products and services and spread of customers provides some resilience against the risks associated with performance in a particular location.
Other aspects of risk mitigation can be seen in the various reviews contained elsewhere in this report and in the Corporate Social Responsibility report.
General business risk In order to further the groups growth strategy, due attention must be paid to the following business risks: the failure to provide a quality service, including safety performance: the failure to invest in new product development, whether organically or by acquisition: the failure to protect the groups Intellectual Property.
Foreign exchange exposure As a consequence of being a UK based group reporting in Sterling and operating in the global oil and gas industry, the group is inevitably exposed to both transactional and translational foreign exchange exposure to the US Dollar.
Whilst a significant portion of group revenues are earned in US Dollars, group costs are incurred in various currencies.
It is not always possible to match revenues with costs denominated in the same currency.
Management attempts to minimise the groups exposure to such foreign risks through various measures but there can be no assurance that management will be able to entirely mitigate foreign exchange risks.
Geo-political risk Expro has significant international operations and certain countries and regions are susceptible to political, social and economic instability and civil disturbances.
To the extent possible, local geo-political risks are mitigated by use of liaison officers and community plans.
Overall group exposure to individual threats would typically be limited to country level.
The group is exposed to potential changes in legislation and regulations in the many countries in which it operates.
This exposure covers repatriation of earnings and capital, employment, health and safety, and the import and export of equipment.
Oil sector risks Demand for our services is linked to the level of capital and operational expenditure of upstream oil and gas companies.
Levels of expenditure are dependent upon a number of factors including oil and gas prices.
In a buoyant market, the retention of senior management and skilled operational personnel is a key sector risk.
Tax rate The effective tax rate reflects the groups broad geographic spread of profits, unrecoverable losses in certain territories, a variety of imputed and higher rate overseas tax regimes and non-deductible items.
Tax continues to be a key priority for the group, particularly the careful management of the long-term underlying tax rate.
Closure of tax positions throughout the groups operating territories also remains a priority.
Increases in direct or indirect taxes can adversely affect the returns that the group and its clients can achieve and may result in a decline in group revenues and profits.
Key Performance Indicatiors KPIs The Board uses a number of KPIs to review and monitor the groups performance on a monthly basis.
The key financial data highlighted to the Board covers revenue, headline operating profit, headline operating profit margin, and free cash flow, which are shown in detail in the Financial Statistics section on pages 2 and 3 of this report.
A wide variety of other information is presented to provide additional clarity for decisionmaking at Board level.
In addition, other significant KPIs subject to Board review, relating to health, safety, environmental and service quality performance, are considered on a monthly basis.
The separate CSR Report provides greater detail on all aspects of the groups performance in health both occupational and non-occupational aspects, safety, environment, service quality and the groups social performance.
The three major non-financial KPIs by which the Board monitors the performance of the management team are Lost Time Incidents LTIs, Total Recordable Case Frequencies TRCFs and environmental spills, which are separately detailed in the CSR report on page 39.
Forward-looking statements Forward-looking statements are based on a number of assumptions made by the groups management concerning future events and information currently available.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
The groups results of operations, financial position, liquidity, dividend policy and the development of the business segments in which it operates may differ materially from the impression created by the forward-looking statements contained in this report.
In addition, even if the results of operations, financial position, liquidity and dividend policy of the group, and the development of the business segments in which they operate, are consistent with the forward looking statements contained in this report, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods.
Although the group believes that the expectations reflected in any forward looking statements are reasonable it cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
