qxp 23 2 07 22:23 Page 52 52 Operating and financial review Principal risks and uncertainties Our business, financial condition and results For example, government policy supporting planning, environmental and health and of operations will be inuenced by a range inner-city residential development in the safety compliance.
Numerous governmental of factors, many of which are beyond the UK, and consequently an increase in the permits and approvals are required for our control of Hanson and its Board.
number of apartments being built in place of operations.
We believe that our operating houses, has reduced the demand for bricks.
Consequently, these could have an impact on units are currently operating in compliance the price of the Hanson shares and the with, or under approved variances from, Inclement weather conditions amount and timing of any dividends that various national and local regulations in could signicantly impact levels we pay.
The risk factors set out below and all applicable jurisdictions.
In the past, our of construction activity and hence the other information in the Annual Report subsidiaries have made significant capital demand for Hansons products.
and Form 20-F should be considered and maintenance expenditures to comply Extended periods of inclement weather, carefully.
There may be other risks which with planning, water, air and solid and especially periods of heavy or sustained are not known to the Company or which hazardous waste regulations.
These rainfall during peak construction periods may not be material now but could turn out subsidiaries may be required to do so during the year and other acts of nature, to be material.
again in the future in order to ensure such as hurricanes, can result in a material business continuity.
reduction in demand for our products.
Risk management It may also impact our ability to produce These national and local regulations in the The Board of Hanson PLC reviews the our products, and consequently result effectiveness of the system of internal jurisdictions in which we operate mean that in reduced revenues and profits.
it may be difficult to expand existing quarries control covering, inter alia, financial, or establish new greeneld aggregates operational, compliance and risk Hanson operates in an extremely reserves in areas where demand would management, at least annually.
justify the capital expenditure required.
Most, if not all, of the markets in which we Changes in economic conditions could have The imposition of industry-related taxes, operate are extremely competitive.
Local a material adverse effect on the level of such as the Aggregates Levy and the Climate factors, such as the number of competitors demand for Hansons products.
Change Levy in the UK, increase our costs and production capacity, the proximity of The demand for many of our products and encourage imports of competing is closely linked to economic conditions, both natural resources, economic conditions and products and product substitution.
globally and in the particular countries in product demand exert further competitive which we operate, especially in North pressure.
The pricing policies of competitors Disruption to, and increased costs associated America, the UK and Australia.
As a result, and the entry of new competitors in the with, both the supply of materials, energy and depressed economic conditions, including local markets in which we operate can have fuel to Hanson and the supply of nished a downturn in US residential demand, could an adverse effect on the demand for, and products to Hansons customers could have an adverse effect on demand for, and pricing of, our products.
Consequently, the signicantly reduce Hansons profitability.
pricing of, our products, which could result results of our operations and profitability We are a significant purchaser of energy in reduced sales and reduced profits.
Gas and other energy supplies are used in our cement and brick manufacturing Changes in government policy or legislation Changes in government policy or legislation operations and fuel is used for the processing relating to public works expenditure and relating to planning, the environment, health and transport of our products.
We also housing could reduce the demand for and safety and industry-related taxes could purchase significant amounts of materials.
signicantly affect Hansons regulatory These include cement for use in our readycompliance and other operating costs.
National governments policies relating to mixed concrete and concrete product Our performance is affected signicantly the development of transport infrastructure operations, steel for use in our concrete and housing have a significant effect on by national and or local government policy product and steel pipe operations and demand for our products and, as a result, and legislation in the regions and territories bitumen for use in our asphalt activities.
Many of our products our profitability.
Decreases in governmental The cost of these materials and cost of are subject to government regulation in funding, or in the allocation of those funds energy and fuel uctuates, sometimes by various jurisdictions regarding their production for transport infrastructure and housing and sale.
Our operating units are subject to significant amounts.
Increases in the costs projects, could reduce the funds available extensive regulation by national and local of these materials, energy and fuel, or their for spending on our products, therefore lack of availability, can signicantly impact potentially reducing sales and profits.
agencies concerning matters such as Hanson 2006 www.
qxp 23 2 07 22:23 Page 53 53 Hansons acquisition strategy or capital our costs and disrupt our operations.
This effect may be positive investment programme may be unsuccessful.
The profitability of our operations could or negative depending on the nature of the We plan to continue making selective be adversely affected if we are not able actual exchange rate movement and the acquisitions to strengthen, develop and to recoup such costs in the prices of nature of any currency hedging instruments expand our existing activities.
Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material The successful implementation of our Transport logistics play an important part in adverse effect on our financial condition acquisition strategy depends on a range of the groups supply chain, whether by road, and results of operations to the extent that factors.
These include our ability to identify rail, sea or river.
Any material disruption we have not effectively hedged against to or lack of availability of such transport appropriate opportunities, complete those exchange movements.
acquisitions and achieve an acceptable rate support could signicantly impact operating costs and reduce profitability.
of return from those acquisitions, including Adverse changes in tax legislation may past acquisitions.
There may also be affect Hansons ability to maintain its tax Increased employment costs could substantial challenges or delays in integrating rate below the UK statutory rate.
and adding value to the businesses which we The effective group tax rate for 2006 was We are a significant employer of labour.
In addition, the costs of integration, 16.6% compared to a UK statutory rate of Any increased costs of employment, which cannot be reliably estimated, could be 30%.
Hansons tax charge is subject to including pension and post-employment material and the projected synergies resulting changes in legislation.
Such changes in benefit costs, could signicantly impact from such acquisitions may not be realised.
legislation may be implemented at short operating costs and consequently reduce Material costs or delays in the integration of notice and may affect Hansons ability to profitability.
The group has several funded the operations that we acquire, or the inability maintain its underlying tax rate below the dened benefit pension plans, which cover to realise synergies from those acquisitions, UK statutory rate of 30%.
a significant number of the groups could result in increased expenditure.
employees who participate in the groups We are unable to estimate reliably all costs Consequently, this could lead to reduced pension plans.
Hanson also provides associated with asbestos-related claims.
profitability and reduced rates of return benets from unfunded non-qualied plans With respect to asbestos-related claims, the from such acquisitions.
in the USA and post-employment benefit Companys approach to accounting for the plans in the USA and Canada.
Various We continue to make significant investment asbestos claims against its US subsidiaries assumptions are made in calculating our in new plant and other capital equipment.
is to provide for those costs of resolution assets and or liabilities under our pension There may be changes in the cost of, or the which are both probable and reliably and healthcare plans which, if incorrect, benets derived from, these projects which estimable.
The costs of resolving possible could have a material adverse effect on could result in reduced rates of return from claims are disclosed as contingent liabilities.
At present, the provision for those costs based on detailed analysis and the Ineffective implementation of computer Hanson is subject to risks relating assumptions contained in note 21 of the software systems could signicantly to changes in exchange rates.
Notes to the accounts which are both reduce Hansons profitability.
In the year ended December 31, 2006, probable and estimable equates to # The implementation of software to improve approximately 76% of our operating profit approximately eight years of gross cost, the efficiency and effectiveness of various was earned in currencies other than pounds assuming a cost level of approximately business processes is an important sterling, and a significant portion of our $60m per annum.
Whilst further claims are contributor to our ongoing operations and revenue is denominated in US dollars.
likely to be resolved beyond this eight year growth strategy.
Failure to design, select period, the associated costs of resolution At December 31, 2006, approximately 64% appropriate suppliers or implement such cannot be reliably estimated.
Hence, no of our capital employed was located outside systems effectively could result in unplanned provision has been made to cover these the UK, and approximately 105% of our net costs or reduced levels of customer possible liabilities.
Factors which could debt and foreign exchange contracts were satisfaction.
This could adversely affect the cause actual results to differ from these denominated in currencies other than pounds results of our operations and profitability.
Since our results are reported in estimates and expectations include: i adverse trends in the ultimate number of pounds sterling, exchange rate movements asbestos claims led against the Companys affect our reported profits, assets, cash and Principal risks and uncertainties 46-55 AW.
qxp 23 2 07 22:24 Page 54 54 Operating and financial review US subsidiaries: ii increases in the cost of environmental clean-up remediation costs below.
In addition, existing operations suffer resolving current and future asbestos claims relating to these discontinued operations.
from litigation claims which may be as a result of adverse trends relating to Based on existing known circumstances, uninsured or fall within deductible levels.
In settlement costs, dismissal rates, legal fees the Company considers the current many cases, the relevant subsidiary believes and or judgment sizes: iii decreases in the Koppers insurance cover to be sufficient to it has good defences against these claims.
amount of insurance available to cover meet substantially all of the related future Nevertheless, in light of the uncertainties asbestos claims as a result of adverse costs of this liability, recognising that the involved in litigation and in particular in the changes in the interpretation of insurance estimate of future probable costs could USA, where there is the added potential for policies or the insolvency of insurers: increase and new sites may arise to which punitive damages, our subsidiary may be iv the emergence of new trends or legal the insurance cover does not apply.
Factors required to participate in settlements or be theories that enlarge the scope of potential which could cause actual costs to increase subject to judgments in future for material claimants: v the impact of bankruptcies include: i unknown adverse conditions amounts.
These may not be covered by of other companies whose share of liability arising at sites: ii third party claims in insurance and consequently may have a may be imposed on the Companys US excess of estimates: iii changes to material impact on our financial condition, subsidiaries under certain state liability laws: regulatory requirements: iv changes in results of operations and cash ow.
vi the unpredictable aspects of the US remediation techniques: and v any other One of the companies into which the former litigation process: vii adverse changes in significant variations to assumptions made Hanson businesses demerged may be unable the mix of asbestos-related diseases with in support of these cost estimates.
Should to satisfy its indemnification obligations to respect to which asbestos claims are made the current Koppers insurance cover be Hanson were it required to do so.
against the Companys US subsidiaries: and insufficient to meet the related future costs, Four companies into which former Hanson viii potential legislative changes.
In light of this could have a material impact on our businesses were demerged agreed in such factors, the liability of the Companys financial condition, results of operations connection with their respective demergers US subsidiaries for resolving asbestos and cash ow and profitability.
to indemnify us against liabilities of the claims may be materially different from businesses transferred to those companies.
As a consequence of its significant present current estimates.
The impact of such We have not incurred any liability in respect and former activities in the USA, the group is claims might have a material adverse effect of any claim that related to the above subject to litigation claims.
These may arise on the Companys consolidated financial out of former businesses and activities in mentioned businesses nor any such liability condition, results of operations and cash addition to those relating to asbestos and being borne by the relevant demerged ow.
However, assuming that current trends Koppers environmental liabilities referred to company.
The Energy Group plc, one of the continue, the Company does not expect above as well as existing operations.
demerged companies, was acquired by TXU that the liability and costs associated with Former and existing subsidiaries have Corp. in 1998.
In November 2002, TXU these asbestos claims will have such a engaged in businesses and activities, Corp. announced that several of TXU material adverse effect.
If there were a unrelated to the business and activities Corp. s UK subsidiaries had been placed material deterioration in current trends, the presently carried on by our group, which under the administrative process in the UK Company does not expect that such claims give rise to bodily injury and property similar to bankruptcy proceedings in the would impact the ability of the Company to damage claims concerning environmental USA, including The Energy Group plc.
continue as a going concern based on the and health issues.
In particular, claims and The Energy Group plc is, therefore, unlikely information currently available to it.
lawsuits have been led against our US to be able to full its indemnification subsidiaries, either directly or as a result of obligations to Hanson if it were required Hansons insurance may be insufficient indemnity obligations, relating to products to do so.
We are, however, not aware of any to cover its obligations related to Koppers incorporating coal by-products and other claim against us or our subsidiaries that environmental liabilities.
chemicals, in particular for the woodwould give rise to an indemnity obligation Koppers environmental clean-up treating industry.
With respect to those on the part of The Energy Group plc.
remediation obligations and related claims involving coal by-products and other costs refer primarily to certain former chemicals, the US subsidiary involved has US discontinued chemical and related not entered into a material settlement or operations carried on by the Koppers been subject to a material adverse company.
Members of the group remain judgment since the demergers as described contractually and statutorily liable for certain Hanson 2006 www.
