Business review risk factors The following comprises a summary of what ICI believes are the main The Groups revenues are dependent on the continued operation risks to which the Group is exposed, which could adversely affect of its various manufacturing facilities.
Operational risks include: the business, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition, equipment and systems failures: turnover, profits, assets, liquidity, and capital resources of the Group.
failure to comply with applicable regulations and standards and The Group operates in competitive markets.
If the Group does not to maintain necessary permits and approvals: continue to compete in its markets effectively by developing innovative products and responding effectively to the activities of its competitors, raw material supply disruptions: it could lose customers and its results of operations, cash flow and or labour force shortages or work stoppages: financial condition could be adversely affected.
events impeding or increasing the cost of transporting products: The Group has a wide portfolio of business units competing across a diverse range of geographic and product markets.
The Groups natural disasters: and business may be adversely affected if it does not: terrorist attacks.
continue to develop innovative products that satisfy customer While the Group maintains insurance at levels that it believes are needs and preferences: appropriate for its industry, some of these operational risks could develop new technology or enhance existing technology that result in losses and liabilities in excess of its insurance coverage or supports product development or provides cost or other in uninsured losses or liabilities.
The occurrence of major operational advantages over its competitors: and problems resulting from the above or other events may have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flow and or financial attract and retain skilled employees who are key to achieving condition of a particular manufacturing facility or, with respect to these objectives.
certain of these risks, the results of operations, cash flow and or As the Group is subject to price competition, it must also continue financial condition of the Group as a whole.
to satisfy these objectives while maintaining a competitive cost base.
The Group undertakes a number of significant projects each year and In addition, some of the Groups competitors in certain markets are poor execution of, or failure to complete, such projects could have an larger and have greater financial resources than the Group.
This may adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, cash flow and or enable them to deliver products on more attractive terms or to invest financial condition.
larger amounts of capital into their businesses, including expenditure for research and development.
If any of the Groups current or future The Group, or any of the Groups business units, may undertake competitors develops proprietary technology that enables them to significant projects including restructuring, capital expenditure, disposals, produce new products or services or to deliver existing products acquisitions and outsourcing, all of which require significant project or services at a significantly lower cost, the Groups products and management from initiation through to implementation.
Failure to manage services could be rendered uneconomical or obsolete.
such projects appropriately or to implement such projects may have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flow and or financial While some of the Groups product range comprises products and condition of a particular business unit and or the Group as a whole.
services that are protected by proprietary knowledge or patents, some of its businesses use technology that is widely available.
Loss of a significant number of key personnel could adversely affect Accordingly, certain product segments of the Groups business may the Groups results of operations, cash flow and or financial condition.
be vulnerable to new competitors and may be adversely affected by The Group relies on key personnel such as business leaders and increased price competition.
Any of these developments could lead technical experts whose knowledge is important to the success of the to a loss of customers and could adversely affect the Groups results Group.
Although the Group has procedures in place to identify and of operations, cash flow and or financial condition.
retain key personnel, events beyond its control may lead to loss of The price volatility of some of the raw materials the Group uses such personnel.
Where this happens, there are processes designed could adversely affect its results of operations, cash flow and or to enable the transfer of know-how from key personnel.
failure to transfer such know-how prior to the loss of key personnel and an inability to replace such key personnel in a timely fashion The Group uses significant amounts of various chemicals and other could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, materials as raw materials in manufacturing its products.
Prices for cash flow and or financial condition.
some of these raw materials are volatile and are affected by cyclical movements in commodity prices, availability of such raw materials, The Group derives a significant percentage of its revenue in some of demand for a variety of products which are produced using these raw its businesses from sales to major customers and, if it is unable to materials, levels of price competition among local and global suppliers retain these customers, its results of operations, cash flow and or and general economic conditions.
The Groups diverse portfolio of financial condition could be adversely affected.
value-added products provides some ability to pass on higher input While no single customer accounted for more than 10% of Group prices to its customers, but this ability is, to a large extent, dependent sales in 2006, sales to major customers in some of its businesses, on market conditions.
There may be times when the Group is not particularly Paints, are significant.
The Group believes that the wide able to recover increases in the cost of raw materials for some selling range and nature of the specialty products it supplies reduce products due to weakness in demand for such products or the the potential adverse consequences of the loss of business from actions of its competitors.
This could adversely affect the Groups any one customer for any one of its products or in any one of its results of operations, cash flow and or financial condition.
Nevertheless, the loss of major customers, without The occurrence of major operational problems could have an replacement, could have an adverse effect on the Groups results adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, cash flow and or of operations, cash flow and or financial condition.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 33 Business review Business review risk factors continued The Groups reliance on key suppliers in some of its businesses could significant increases in the deficit of the Groups pension funds result in an adverse effect on results of operations, cash flow and or or significant increases in the top-up contributions of such funds.
Whilst ICI currently has a Standard & Poors Ratings Services Some of the Groups business units rely on a small number of rating of BBB Stable A-2 and a Moodys Investors Service rating suppliers for their key raw materials.
If any of these suppliers is unable of Baa3 Positive P-3, any downgrade of such credit ratings would to meet its obligations or increases its prices, the Group may not be reduce its funding options, significantly increase its cost of borrowings able to find a replacement supplier that is able to provide such raw and have an adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flow materials on similar terms.
Consequently, the Group may be forced to and or financial condition.
pay higher prices to obtain raw materials, which it may not be able to Previously disposed businesses may expose the Group to costs that pass on to its customers in the form of increased prices for its finished could have an adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flow products.
In addition, some of the raw materials used may become and or financial condition.
unavailable and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain suitable and cost-effective substitutes.
Furthermore, any In recent years, the Group has carried out a programme of strategic consolidation in the industries that supply the Groups raw materials disposals, in the course of which it has given to other parties in those could further reduce the number of available suppliers.
transactions certain indemnities, warranties and guarantees, including indemnities, warranties and guarantees relating to known and Any interruption of supply or price increases caused by these or potential latent environmental, health and safety liabilities.
There are other factors, which the Group is not able to mitigate by securing also a number of contracts relating to businesses that ICI exited as satisfactory replacement suppliers, could have an adverse effect part of its disposal programme which have not been novated to the on its results of operations, cash flow and or financial condition.
The Groups indebtedness and resulting leverage could reduce its The extent to which ICI will be required in the future to incur costs operational and competitive flexibility, increase its vulnerability to under any of the indemnifications, warranties, guarantees or contracts adverse economic and industry conditions, increase its interest costs referred to above or any similar contractual provision which the Group and adversely affect results of operations and cash flow and or entered into in connection with its disposal programme is not financial condition.
predictable and, if the Group should incur such costs, the costs could The Groups outstanding net indebtedness amounted to 329m have an adverse effect on results of operations, cash flow and as of 31 December 2006.
The Groups indebtedness could affect financial condition.
For a more detailed description of these exposures the Group in adverse ways, in particular by requiring the Group to see note 33 relating to the Group accounts.
dedicate a significant portion of its operational cash flow to service Risks associated with the Groups international operations payments on such indebtedness, and by limiting its ability to borrow could adversely affect its results of operations, cash flow and or additional funds or refinance existing indebtedness on attractive terms.
Furthermore, its indebtedness could increase its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit its ability to fund future ICI is an international business with operations in over 50 countries capital expenditures, research and development and other general and conducts business in many currencies.
These operations are corporate requirements, and limit its flexibility to react to changes in subject to the risks associated with international operations which its business and the industries in which the Group operates.
include: In addition, like many other companies, the Group is dependent on its slowdown or recession in global, regional or national ability to obtain short-term financing to fund a portion of its financing economic growth: requirements.
While the Group has access to 479m in committed imposition or removal of tariffs and trade barriers: and undrawn bank facilities as of 31 December 2006, limitations on the Groups ability to access short-term financing could increase its exchange controls: interest costs and could adversely affect its results of operations, fluctuations in national currencies: cash flow and or financial condition.
social and political risks: A decision by the rating agencies to downgrade ICIs credit rating would reduce its funding options, increase its cost of borrowings and national and regional labour disputes: have an adverse impact on results of operations, cash flow and or required compliance with a variety of foreign laws, regulations financial condition.
and standards: and A number of factors, some of which are not within the Groups the difficulty of enforcing legal claims and agreements through control, may, individually or in combination, affect the rating agencies some foreign legal systems.
view of the Groups credit profile and lead them to place the Group on credit watch or downgrade its credit rating, including: Furthermore, some of the Groups businesses are subject to cyclical fluctuations in the industries and economies in which they operate.
a significant deterioration in the Groups operating performance: Finally, like all international businesses, the Group faces the risk of the occurrence of material, unexpected additional cash charges exposure when costs arise in a different currency from sales and the leading to a weakening in cash flow debt metrics: risk arising from the need to translate foreign currency denominated profits into pounds Sterling, the Groups reporting currency.
Any of the a significant deterioration in the economic environment in which risks discussed above could adversely affect its results of operations, the Group operates: cash flow and or financial condition.
the occurrence of any of the events described in the other risk factors contained in this document: and 34 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Business review Economic, social and political conditions in developing economies It is the Groups policy to require that its subsidiaries comply with could adversely affect the Groups results of operations, cash flow, relevant laws, regulations and standards.
However, violations of financial condition and or future growth.
applicable laws, regulations and standards, in particular provisions of environmental, health and safety laws including spills or other The Group has operations in many developing economies in Asia releases of hazardous substances into the environment or of permit and Latin America, and its strategy includes continuing to expand its or approval requirements, could result in restrictions on the operation business in these regions.
However, many developing economies of the Groups facilities: damages, fines or other sanctions: increased have recent histories of economic, social and political instability costs of compliance: and reputational damage.
The Group is also brought about by a number of factors, including unexpected changes subject to environmental laws and regulations, principally in respect in local laws, regulations and standards: substantial depreciation and of soil and groundwater remediation, that in the future may require it volatility in national currencies: and the imposition of trade barriers to take action to correct effects on the environment of prior disposal and wage and price controls.
Any of these factors could adversely or release of chemical substances by the Group or other parties.
affect the Groups results of operations, cash flow, financial condition and or future growth.
The Group has established provisions in respect of future environmental, health and safety liabilities for which expenditure is The Groups exposure to consumer markets exposes it to legal risks, probable and the cost of which can be estimated within a reasonable regulation and potential liabilities from product liability claims asserted range of outcomes.
These actual and potential liabilities, however, by consumers which could have an adverse effect on the Groups are inherently difficult to predict and to quantify.
Existing provisions results of operations, cash flow and or financial condition.
could therefore be inadequate to cover these liabilities, and additional A significant proportion of the Groups products is sold directly or costs to meet such actual and potential obligations could have an indirectly to end-user consumers, even if the Group does not itself adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, cash flow and provide these products directly to consumers.
This exposure to financial condition.
consumer markets exposes the Group to legal risks, regulation by Failure to comply with corporate governance requirements could have relevant authorities and potential liabilities to consumers of these an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, cash flow products, which may not be covered by the Groups existing and or financial condition.
insurance coverage or may exceed its insurance coverage.
Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on the Groups results The Group has in place a corporate governance framework which of operations, cash flow and or financial condition.
meets the requirements set out in Section I of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council Certain companies in the Group are the subject of various claims and in July 2003.
Processes are in place to ensure that this framework is proceedings which, if successfully asserted against them, could have complied with and maintained.
an adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flow and or financial condition.
Failure by the Group to implement, update, manage and maintain its corporate governance compliance and control framework or failure to Certain companies in the Group are the subject of various claims and comply with such a framework could have an adverse effect on the proceedings.
These concern issues such as alleged product liability Groups results of operations, cash flow and or financial condition.
Further details of such claims and proceedings are set out at note 33 relating to the Group accounts.
ICI has given undertakings and guarantees relating to pension funds, including the solvency of the ICI UK Pension Fund, which could have The ultimate outcome of these matters is subject to many an adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flow and or uncertainties, including future events and the uncertainties inherent financial condition.
The Group has made provision in its financial statements for such matters to the extent that losses are presently considered The Group provides retirement benefits for the majority of its former probable and estimable.
However, these matters involve substantial and current employees through a variety of defined benefit and, more sums, and an unfavourable outcome of one or more of these matters recently, defined contribution schemes.
These include the ICI UK could have a material effect on the Groups results of operations, Pension Fund the Fund, which is ICIs largest defined benefit cash flow and or financial position.
At 31 December 2006, the Fund had liabilities of 7,568m, offset by scheme assets with a market value of 6,871m, giving a net Violations of environmental, health and safety and other laws, deficit of 697m which is recorded on the Groups balance sheet regulations and standards could restrict the Groups operations, under international accounting standard IAS19 Employee Benefits.
expose it to liability, increase its costs and have an adverse effect The Fund represents 81% of the Groups total post-retirement on its results of operations, cash flow and or financial condition.
scheme liabilities and 86% of the Groups total post-retirement The Group is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and scheme assets at 31 December 2006. standards in each of the jurisdictions where it operates, including The most recent funding valuation of the Fund revealed a funding those relating to pollution, the health and safety of employees, shortfall of 657m at 31 March 2005.
Given that the Fund is protection of the public, protection of the environment and the extremely mature, the funding deficit shortfall has to be rectified generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal through funding from the Company.
Factors such as the risk of poor and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials.
future investment returns on scheme assets, changes in actuarial These regulations and standards are becoming increasingly stringent.
assumptions including mortality of scheme members, higher rates of In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to inspections inflation and or falling bond-return rates used to discount the scheme and monitoring by the appropriate enforcement authorities.
The liabilities could all serve to increase the Fund deficit, thereby requiring Group also requires relevant permits and approvals for its operations increased future funding contributions from the Company with a which require compliance with their terms and which may be subject resulting adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, cash to renewal, modification and, in some circumstances, revocation.
flow and or financial condition.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 35 Business review
