Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Principal Risks and Uncertainties 14 A detailed assessment of strategic risks is undertaken by management and is embedded into our corporate planning process.
Each area of the business is required to and advertising of tobacco products.
Key Market Dependency formally review their principal areas of risk Increased regulation, including the The continued organic growth of the and uncertainty so that major risks are introduction of public place smoking bans, business is underpinned by our key reviewed at all levels across the Group.
may have an adverse effect on the markets.
Any material decline in the This is an ongoing process, ensuring demand for our products.
performance of these markets may there are clear and consistent procedures impact our future profit development.
for monitoring, updating and implementing Excise Duty appropriate controls to manage the Increasing excise duties on tobacco Competition Law identied risks.
The Board acknowledges products are likely to reduce the demand We have significant market positions responsibility for the Groups systems of for tobacco products.
Tobacco products in certain markets.
As a result, we may internal control.
More detailed information are subject to excise duty which, in many be subject to investigation for alleged on the Groups approach to risk of the markets in which we operate, infringement of competition law in these management is found in the Corporate represents a substantial percentage of the markets, which could result in adverse Governance Report.
retail price and has been steadily increasing regulatory action by relevant authorities, in recent years.
Increasing levels of excise including the potential for monetary We are subject to the same general risks duty have encouraged consumersin fines, and negative publicity.
In 2003, and uncertainties as any other business, affected markets to switch from premium we received an enquiry from the for example, the political stability in the price cigarettes to lower price cigarettes Ofce of Fair Trading OFT in the UK countries in which we operate and source and ne cut tobacco.
Given our strength into an alleged infringement of UK our raw materials, the impact of natural in lower priced cigarettes and our worldcompetition law.
Information relating disasters and changes in general leading position in ne cut tobacco we are to the operation of the UK tobacco economic conditions including currency well positioned to benefit from downtrading supply chain was supplied to the OFT and interest rate uctuations, and the caused by increased levels of duty.
in October 2003 and again during impact of competition.
The OFTs enquiry is ongoing.
However, substantial increases in excise Outlined below is a description of the Further information is included in the duties and any signicantly unfavourable principal risks and uncertainties that are Corporate Governance Report.
change in the tax treatment of ne cut specic to, and may impact, our business.
tobacco may have an adverse effect on Not all these factors are within the Groups Litigation the size of individual duty-paid markets for control.
There may be other risks and We may incur substantial costs in our products.
Excise duty increases have uncertainties which are unknown to the connection with health-related litigation.
also encouraged both legal and illegal Group or which may not be material Various tobacco litigation claims are cross-border trade from countries with now but could turn out to be material pending against the Group.
To date, no lower levels of duty and the production in the future.
tobacco litigation claim brought against of counterfeit tobacco products.
Imperial Tobacco has been successful Regulation Within such an environment there is a risk and or resulted in the recovery of The tobacco industry is subject to that we may be subject to investigation by damages.
However, if any individual claim substantial and increasing regulation.
For customs or other authorities.
Although we were to be successful, it may lead to many years the trend has been towards have implemented procedures to detect further claims, which if successful may an increasingly restrictive regulatory and control illegal trading of our products, result in a significant liability for damages.
In many of the markets in such procedures can provide only Regardless of the outcome of pending which we operate, there are regulatory reasonable and not absolute assurance litigation, the costs of defending such restrictions affecting the manufacture, of detecting non-compliance by managing claims can be substantial and may not development, sale, distribution, marketing rather than eliminating risk.
