Operating and financial review IHG Operating and financial review 17 Engaging employees Great emphasis is placed on employee Risk management communication, particularly on matters relating to the Groups The Group is subject to a variety of risks which could have a business and its performance.
Communication channels include negative impact on its performance and financial condition.
The global management conferences, team meetings, informal Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and briefings, in-house publications and intranets.
Regular feedback risk management, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to is obtained through employee focus groups and employee discharge that responsibility, the Board has established an ongoing opinion surveys, the results of which are utilised in developing process to identify significant business risks facing the Group.
management policies and best practices.
A European Forum The Board also receives assurance from the internal audit and brings together senior managers and employee representatives risk management functions that these risks are being appropriately from EU countries to discuss pan-European issues: managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
Rewarding achievement Compensation and benefit This section describes some of the risks that could materially affect programmes are designed to be market competitive and the the Groups business.
The factors below should be considered in Group recognises employees with appropriate individual or connection with any financial and forward-looking information in team based awards: this OFR and the cautionary statements contained on page 95.
Pensions The Group offers access to a comprehensive The risks below are not the only ones that the Group faces.
Some retirement savings plan in all the geographic areas in which risks are not yet known to IHG and some that IHG does not it operates.
IHG makes matching contributions and the plans currently believe to be material could later turn out to be material.
provide various investment and currency options: All of these risks could materially affect the Groups business, Health and safety The Group-wide commitment to health and revenue, operating profit, earnings, net assets and liquidity and or safety for guests and employees alike is detailed in the capital resources.
Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Annual Review The Group is reliant on the reputation of its brands and the and Summary Financial Statement 2006: protection of its intellectual property rights Equality of opportunity The Group is committed to providing Any event that materially damages the reputation of one or more equality of opportunity to all employees without discrimination of the Groups brands and or failure to sustain the appeal of the and continues to be supportive of the employment of disabled Groups brands to its customers could have an adverse impact on persons.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the the value of that brand and subsequent revenues from that brand Groups policy to provide continuing employment wherever or business.
In addition, the value of the Groups brands is practical in the same or an alternative position: influenced by a number of other factors, some of which may be Diversity IHG benefits from the diversity of its employees, outside the Groups control, including commoditisation whereby owners, business partners and guests.
The Group regards price quality becomes relatively more important than brand diversity as a fundamental factor in its success in operating identifications due, in part, to the increased prevalence of third as a global organisation.
party intermediaries, consumer preference and perception, failure by the Group or its franchisees to ensure compliance with the Information on the Winning Ways, IHGs recently developed core significant regulations applicable to hotel operations including fire values and behaviours framework, can be found in the Annual and life safety requirements, or other factors affecting consumers Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006. willingness to purchase goods and services, including any factor Corporate social responsibility CSR which adversely affects the reputation of those brands.
IHG is committed to maintaining a strong culture of CSR and In particular, where the Group is unable to enforce adherence to to meeting its global obligations as one of the worlds leading its operating and quality standards, or the significant regulations international hotel businesses.
applicable to hotel operations, pursuant to its management and A comprehensive review of the Groups CSR strategy was carried franchise contracts, there may be further adverse impact upon out and a revised strategy was considered and approved by the brand reputation or customer perception and therefore the value Board in December 2006.
The intention is to concentrate on the of the hotel brands.
global environment and local communities to realise this ambition.
Given the importance of brand recognition to the Groups IHG also made important organisational changes during the year business, the Group has invested considerable effort in protecting and management is now working to integrate the CSR policies into its intellectual property, including registration of trademarks and the business.
As a result of the significant work undertaken in 2006, domain names.
However, the laws of certain foreign countries in IHG believes it is now well placed to make significant progress which the Group operates do not protect the Groups proprietary during 2007. rights to the same extent as the laws in the US and the European Further details can be found in the Annual Review and Summary Union.
If the Group is unable to protect its intellectual property, any Financial Statement 2006, and on the website www.
com corporate infringement or misappropriation could materially harm its future financial results and ability to develop its business.
The Group is exposed to a variety of risks related to identifying, securing and retaining management and franchise agreements The Groups growth strategy depends on its success in identifying, securing and retaining management and franchise agreements.
18 IHG Annual report and financial statements 2006 Operating and financial review Competition with other hotel companies may generally reduce personnel, the unexpected loss of key senior employees, failures the number of suitable management, franchise and investment in the Groups succession planning and incentive plans, or a failure opportunities offered to the Group and increase the bargaining to invest in the development of key skills.
Additionally, unless skills power of property owners seeking to engage a manager or become a are supported by a sufficient infrastructure to enable knowledge franchisee.
The terms of new management or franchise agreements and skills to be passed on, the Group risks losing accumulated may not be as favourable as current arrangements and the Group knowledge if key employees leave the Group.
may not be able to renew existing arrangements on the same terms.
The Group is exposed to the risk of events that adversely impact There can also be no assurance that the Group will be able to domestic or international travel identify, retain or add franchisees to the Group system or to secure The room rates and occupancy levels of the Group could be management contracts.
For example, the availability of suitable adversely impacted by events that reduce domestic or international sites, planning and other local regulations or the availability of travel, such as actual or threatened acts of terrorism or war, finance may all restrict the supply of suitable hotel development epidemics such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome and avian opportunities under franchise or management agreements.
There flu, travel-related accidents, travel-related industrial action, are also risks that significant franchisees or groups of franchisees increased transportation and fuel costs and natural disasters may have interests that conflict, or are not aligned, with those of resulting in reduced worldwide travel or other local factors the Group including, for example, the unwillingness of franchisees impacting individual hotels.
A decrease in the demand for hotel to support brand improvement initiatives.
In connection with rooms as a result of such events may have an adverse impact on entering into management or franchise agreements, the Group may the Groups operations and financial results.
In addition, inadequate be required to make investments in or guarantee the obligations preparedness, contingency planning or recovery capability in of third parties or guarantee minimum income to third parties.
relation to a major incident or crisis may prevent operational continuity and consequently impact the value of the brand or the Changes in legislation or regulatory changes may be implemented reputation of the Group.
that have the effect of favouring franchisees relative to brand owners.
The Group is reliant upon its proprietary reservation system and is exposed to the risk of failures in the system and increased The Group is exposed to the risks of political and economic competition in reservation infrastructure developments The value of the brands of the Group is partly derived from the ability The Group is exposed to the risks of global and regional adverse to drive reservations through its proprietary HolidexPlus reservation political, economic and financial market developments, including system, an electronic booking and delivery channel directly linked to recession, inflation and currency fluctuations that could lower travel agents, hotels and internet networks.
Inadequate disaster revenues and reduce income.
A recession would adversely affect recovery arrangements, or inadequate continued investment in room rates and or occupancy levels and other income-generating this technology, leading to loss of key communications linkages, activities resulting in deterioration of results of operations and particularly in relation to HolidexPlus, internet reservation channels potentially reducing the value of properties in affected economies.
and other key parts of the IT infrastructure for a prolonged period, Further political or economic factors or regulatory action could or permanently, may result in significant business interruption and effectively prevent the Group from receiving profits from, or selling subsequent impact on revenues.
its investments in, certain countries, or otherwise adversely affect The Group is also exposed to the risk of competition from third operations.
For example, changes to tax rates or legislation in party intermediaries who provide reservation infrastructure.
In the jurisdictions in which the Group operates could decrease the particular, any significant increase in the use of these reservation proportion of profits the Group is entitled to retain, or the Groups channels in preference to proprietary channels may impact the interpretation of various tax laws and regulations may prove to be Groups ability to control the supply, presentation and price of its incorrect, resulting in higher than expected tax charges.
fluctuations in currency exchange rates between sterling, the currency in which the Group reports its financial statements, The Group is exposed to certain risks in relation to technology and the US dollar and other currencies in which the Groups and systems international operations or investments do business, could To varying degrees, the Group is reliant upon certain technologies adversely affect the Groups reported earnings and the value of its and systems including IT systems for the running of its business, business.
Fluctuations of this type have been experienced over particularly those which are highly integrated with business recent years with the significant strengthening of sterling against processes.
Disruption to those technologies or systems could the US dollar.
As the Groups profits have become increasingly adversely affect the efficiency of the business, notwithstanding weighted towards North America, such fluctuations may have business continuity or disaster recovery processes.
The Group may greater impact on the Groups reported results.
have to make substantial additional investments in new technologies or systems to remain competitive.
Failing to keep pace The Group is dependent upon recruiting and retaining key with developments in technologies or systems may put the Group at personnel and developing their skills a competitive disadvantage.
The technologies or systems that the In order to develop, support and market its products, the Group Group chooses may not be commercially successful or the must hire and retain highly skilled employees with particular technology or system strategy employed may not be sufficiently expertise.
The implementation of the Groups strategic business aligned to the needs of the business or responsive to changes in plans could be undermined by failure to recruit or retain key business strategy.
As a result, the Group could lose customers, fail Operating and financial review IHG Operating and financial review 19 to attract new customers or incur substantial costs or face other The Group is required to comply with data privacy regulations losses.
Additionally, failure to develop an appropriate e-commerce Existing and emerging data privacy regulations limit the extent to strategy and select the right partners could erode the Groups which the Group can use customer information for marketing or market share.
Compliance with these regulations in each jurisdiction in which the Group operates may require changes in The Group is exposed to the risks of the hotel industry supply and marketing strategies and associated processes which could demand cycle increase operating costs or reduce the success with which products The future operating results of the Group could be adversely and services can be marketed to existing or future customers.
In affected by industry over-capacity by number of rooms and weak addition, non-compliance with privacy regulations may result in demand due, in part, to the cyclical nature of the hotel industry, fines, damage to reputation or restrictions on the use or transfer or other differences between planning assumptions and actual of information.
Reductions in room rates and occupancy levels would adversely impact the results of Group operations.
The Group is exposed to funding risks in relation to the defined benefits under its pension plans The Group may experience a lack of selected development The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level opportunities in relation to its ongoing obligation to provide current and future While the strategy of the Group is to extend the hotel network pensions for members of its pension plans who are entitled to through activities that do not involve significant capital, in some defined benefits.
In addition, if any plan of the Group is wound-up, cases the Group may consider it appropriate to acquire new land the Group could become statutorily liable to make an immediate or locations for the development of new hotels.
If the availability payment to the trustees to bring the funding of these defined of suitable sites becomes limited, this could adversely affect its benefits to a level which is higher than this minimum.
contributions payable by the Group must be set with a view to The Group is exposed to the risk of litigation making prudent provision for the benefits accruing under the The Group could be at risk of litigation from its guests, customers, plans of the Group.
joint venture partners, suppliers, employees, regulatory authorities, Some of the issues which could adversely affect the funding of franchisees and or the owners of hotels managed by it for breach these defined benefits and materially affect the Groups funding of its contractual or other duties.
Claims filed in the US may obligations include: include requests for punitive damages as well as compensatory damages.
Exposure to litigation or fines imposed by regulatory poor investment performance of pension fund investments which authorities may affect the reputation of the Group even though is substantially weighted towards global equity markets: the monetary consequences are not significant.
long life expectancy which will make pensions payable for longer The Group may face difficulties insuring its business and therefore more expensive to provide : Historically, the Group has maintained insurance at levels adverse annuity rates which tend in particular to depend on determined by it to be appropriate in light of the cost of cover and prevailing interest rates and life expectancy as these will make the risk profiles of the business in which it operates.
However, it more expensive to secure pensions with an insurance company: forces beyond the Groups control including market forces, may and limit the scope of coverage the Group can obtain as well as the Groups ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates.
Other forces other events occurring which make past service benefits more beyond the Groups control, such as terrorist attacks or natural expensive than predicted in the actuarial assumptions by disasters may be uninsurable or simply too expensive to insure reference to which the Groups past contributions were assessed.
Inadequate or insufficient insurance could expose the The trustees of the UK defined benefits plans can demand Group to large claims or could result in the loss of capital invested increases to the contribution rates relating to the funding of those in properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from pension plans, which would oblige the relevant members of the properties, and could leave the Group responsible for guarantees, Group to contribute extra amounts to such pension funds.
The debt or other financial obligations related to the property.
trustees must consult the plans actuary and principal employer The Group is exposed to a variety of risks associated with its before exercising this power.
In practice, contribution rates are ability to borrow and satisfy debt covenants agreed between the Group and the trustees on actuarial advice, The Group is reliant on having access to borrowing facilities to and are set for three year terms.
The last such review was as at meet its expected capital requirements and to maintain an efficient 31 March 2004.
As at 19 February 2007, being the last practicable balance sheet.
The majority of the Groups borrowing facilities are date prior to publication of this document, the Group has agreed only available if the financial covenants in the facilities are complied to make a special contribution to the UK Pension Plan of 40m with.
If the Group is not in compliance with the covenants, the over the next three years as noted under the Pensions section lenders may demand the repayment of the funds advanced.
However, this action does not preclude the trustees Groups financial performance does not meet market expectations from making further demands in respect of increases to it may not be able to refinance its existing facilities on terms it contribution rates and funding levels.
The availability of funds for future financing is in part dependent on conditions and liquidity in the capital markets.
20 IHG Annual report and financial statements 2006
