Corporate level Regional business Business units Hub, Pakistan 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 21 07 11:52 Page 14 Our approach to risk and risk management International Powers principal activities are the development, acquisition and operation of power generation plants together with closely related activities, such as desalination and district heating.
These principal activities are supported by a number of local, regional and corporate offices which carry out activities such as trading and treasury operations.
All of these activities have inherent risks.
Our general approach to risk management and risk governance is set Policy, delegations and exposure limits are set at the corporate out below.
This is followed by a description of the principal risks faced level, with the Board of Directors taking ultimate responsibility.
Acceptable business practices and health, safety and environmental standards are set centrally.
Risk management framework Our risk management philosophy is designed to deal with the diverse nature of our asset base.
International Power owns, or has equity Market and trading risks are managed regionally within stakes in, over 40 plants and businesses located in 20 countries on four the framework set at corporate level.
Political risks are also continents.
Our portfolio contains all major technologies and fuel types managed regionally with support from the corporate centre.
with the exception of nuclear power.
In terms of age, our plants range from those which entered service in the 1950s through to those still under construction.
Overall, the majority of the portfolio entered service Risk assessments and action plans are mainly business unit less than 15 years ago.
Politically and economically the portfolio is based.
Health, safety and environment compliance activities are similarly diverse, having a presence in developed and developing also managed at asset level, albeit within a central policy countries, with a variety of cultural, political and legal systems.
Business managers are accountable for managing To reflect the profile of our business we have developed a system the risks within their areas of responsibility.
This principle also that contains both bottom up and top down elements to identify applies to managers of corporate functions.
14 Business and financial review Our approach to risk and risk management P Actions 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 23 07 10:10 Page 15 There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing In order to compare risks across the Group on a systematic basis the key risks faced by the Group.
Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk we segment our activities as shown below.
In reality, certain exposures Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer CFO and interact and other exposures apply to more than one risk area for comprises Executive Directors, other regional directors and senior example regulatory risk applies to all of our activities.
The Risk Committee has responsibility, on behalf of the segment risks are assessed in each of the areas in which they occur.
Board, for ensuring: Financial risks the adequacy of systems for identifying and assessing significant risks: that appropriate control systems and other mitigating actions are Market and trading risks in place: that residual exposures are consistent with the Companys strategy Fuel supply risks and objectives.
Country and political risks During the business planning process, each business unit and functional group identifies and assesses the key risks associated with achievement Construction and operational risks of its principal objectives and assesses their impact.
These assessments are conducted by all material entities.
During the year, significant Health, safety and environmental risks changes in the risk profile are highlighted through the business performance reporting process.
Staffing and HR risks The centrepiece of our risk management activities is an annual, Group-wide, risk review.
This is based on the outcome of the business planning exercise, updated as necessary to take account of post Principal risks and exposures business plan events.
The assessments are synthesised into a Risk Report that identifies all the principal risks and which is reviewed by the Financial risks Risk Committee.
Where risks are considered to exceed the Companys Our business can be subject to financial volatility.
This can originate risk appetite, the Risk Committee directs which actions are to be taken.
from a number of sources, including project company and counterparty The Risk Report is reviewed by the full Board and the Audit Committee.
One example is the insolvency of TXU Europe in 2002 Schematically the annual Risk Report system functions as follows: which resulted in the termination of the Rugeley Tolling Agreement a long-term agreement to purchase coal and sell power, which caused a shortfall in revenues for that asset.
Our capital structure is designed Review by full Board and Audit Committee to address these risks.
At the corporate level we have a number of loan facilities which provide Review by Risk Committee us with a prudent level of financial headroom cash plus outstanding credit lines, less known obligations which can be applied to any aspect of our business should the need arise.
These facilities will meet the short Synthesis by Risk Report working group to medium-term funding requirements envisaged by the business.
Longer-term funding requirements or funding for a particularly large Risk assessments by business units and functions P transaction e. g. the acquisition of the EME international asset portfolio in 2004 may be sourced from a combination of these facilities and suitable long-term instruments, such as bonds or by raising additional equity.
The actual choice of funding instrument s will depend on market conditions at that time.
In merchant markets we are sometimes required to provide trading credit support for our trading operations.
Fuel and electricity markets periodically experience sharp price movements.
When price movements occur this has an immediate knock-on effect on our trading credit We own or have equity stakes in over There is a continuous process for P P 40 plants and businesses in 20 countries identifying, evaluating and managing on four continents key risks faced by the Group Overall, the majority of our portfolio The centrepiece of our risk management P P entered service less than 15 years ago activities is an annual, Group-wide risk review Annual Report 2006 15 P P P 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 21 07 11:52 Page 16 support requirements, which can be volatile as a consequence.
also have interest rate pass through mechanisms.
Overall, 77% of our The maintenance of financial headroom offers protection against borrowings were protected from interest rate fluctuations in these escalating margin calls payments we are required to make when ways, at the end of 2006. power prices increase above the contract price.
In order to hedge the net assets of non-UK operations, borrowings are Project development can, on occasions, require credit support.
generally in the same currency as the underlying investment.
The Group This support can take the form of parent company guarantees or aims to hedge a reasonable proportion of its non-sterling assets in this credit support instruments issued by banks.
In the unlikely event way.
It is not our policy, however, to hedge currency translation exposures that credit support facilities are unavailable to support the growth through foreign exchange contracts or currency swaps.
This exposes our developments that we are planning, this could require us to reduce our sterling profits and our balance sheet assets and liabilities to fluctuations development activities.
We consider it highly unlikely that we will have that are not related to underlying business performance.
to forego opportunities as a result of this constraint due to the prudent For 2006 and 2005 average and year-end sterling rates for major level of financial headroom that we maintain and the availability of currencies, which are significant to the Group, were: additional bilateral facilities with banks.
Average At 31 December At the individual business level we finance our projects with 2006 2005 2006 2005 non-recourse debt.
We use non-recourse finance as this insulates US dollar 1.85 1.82 1.96 1.72 the Group from adverse events occurring at the project level, limiting Australian dollar 2.44 2.39 2.48 2.34 our balance sheet exposure to a given project to the loss of the Euro 1.47 1.46 1.48 1.46 equity in that project.
Other financial exposures and their mitigants are set out below.
Czech koruna 41.51 43.56 40.85 42.27 Counterparty risk When one of our projects makes sales and purchases in a currency other than its functional currency this gives rise to a currency transaction We manage our credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties exposure.
Transaction exposures also arise when dividends or other by establishing clearly defined limits, policies and procedures.
Energy funds are remitted from our overseas companies.
We match transaction trading activities are strictly monitored and controlled through delegated exposures in advance where possible, and hedge any unmatched authorities and procedures, which include specific criteria for the transactions as soon as they are committed.
We use foreign currency management of credit exposures in each of our key regions.
With contracts and similar instruments for this purpose.
respect to our treasury activities, the financial counterparty credit exposure is limited to arrangements with relationship banks and to Investment structures and contingent liabilities commercial paper that has an investment grade credit rating.
Going forward, the complexity of the Group and its investment Counterparty exposures arising from sale and purchase agreements with structures, together with the rapidly growing body of tax legislation, our customers are monitored and managed locally with assistance from will make tax planning and forecasting an increasingly complex and Group treasury.
In addition, Group treasury manages the consolidated uncertain process.
We closely monitor actual and potential changes Group-wide counterparty credit positions, with the active involvement in tax legislation in order to assess the continued effectiveness of of the global risk manager.
our corporate structures and financial planning assumptions.
We are supported by a major global specialist firm in making these assessments.
Currency and interest rate exposures International Power has a number of contingent liabilities.
These arise Project company borrowings are normally made in the project from certain tax planning assumptions that are not yet confirmed by the companys functional currency.
Hence exchange rate fluctuations do not relevant fiscal authorities and from ongoing legal actions, one of which affect the financial stability of our assets.
In countries with historically dates back more than a decade.
We have fully provided for all sums that weak currencies we aim to have power purchase agreement PPA we believe will become due.
tariffs denominated in a major international currency.
This protects future returns against large and rapid devaluations.
Funding of pensions obligations Variability in interest payments can introduce further volatility into The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes.
We mainly mitigate this risk by fixing borrowing rates, These schemes guarantee their members that they will receive pensions principally by using interest rate swaps.
A limited number of our PPAs 16 Business and financial review Our approach to risk and risk management Midlothian, Texas 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 23 07 10:12 Page 17 related to their final salary at retirement, which gives rise to a risk that credits.
The key risks facing our market and trading activities and their our pension funds will not be sufficient to meet these obligations.
This mitigants are set out below.
risk crystallised during the first part of the decade as share prices fell worldwide and more onerous actuarial valuation assumptions were Hedging activities mandated by government.
The Groups defined benefit pension funds Unhedged output is subject to price and volume volatility.
To reduce this recorded a deficit of 15 million when they were last reviewed, and uncertainty, we operate a rolling hedge programme under which we actuarial assumptions updated, in December 2006.
Whilst this is not increase the proportion of output that is sold forward as the production large compared to a number of other UK groups, the adequacy date approaches.
As at 20 February 2007 around 90% of expected of our pension funds will remain an area of focus for some time.
output at Rugeley and Saltend was contracted for 2007 and approximately 80% for 2008.
In Texas 60% of our expected output at In order to address this we have increased the level of contributions.
Midlothian and Hays, and 95% at Coleto Creek, has been forward Furthermore, the comparatively small number of staff within our defined contracted for 2007 and for our Blackstone and Bellingham, New benefit pension schemes approximately 1,400 as at 31 December England plants, 55% has been forward contracted.
In Australia, both Loy 2006 significantly reduces the level of our potential exposure relative Yang B and Hazelwood are highly contracted for 2007, with 85% and to many other FTSE 100 companies.
75% of output sold forward respectively.
Due to market liquidity considerations the majority of our hedging activity is for a maximum Financial processes period of two years ahead.
We consider that we have an appropriate and robust internal control system.
During the past year our systems of financial control have been It is not always possible to achieve an exact match between power subject to a comprehensive review to meet the requirements of Section sales and purchases, and the purchases and sales of related commodities.
404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
We anticipate that the systems will Mismatched positions have the potential to result in substantial losses.
meet the standards of this Act and the rules that have been developed This potential exposure is addressed in our trading policies, which do during its implementation.
not allow us to take significant unmatched positions.
In order to identify variances to our forecasts in a timely manner and In addition to asset-backed trading we carry out some proprietary provide an early warning of changing circumstances, we monitor a trading trading not linked to the expected output of our power plants.
The principal financial KPIs are profit Our proprietary trading activities are limited in scope and any exposures from operations PFO, EPS, and free cash flow, details of which are set are correspondingly small.
Framework for trading activities Insurance risk management Our trading activities operate within a robust framework of policies Our risk management processes assist us in the identification of events and oversight functions.
Trading and forward contracting strategies that can be partly or entirely mitigated through use of insurance, are continually reviewed by regional and corporate trading and risk or which we can self-insure.
Risks that we insure include business management professionals, to ensure they are best suited to both interruption, Directors and officers liability and property damage.
local market conditions and corporate risk guidelines.
Company-wide Insurance providers recognise the robust nature of our processes oversight of our trading operations is provided by a global commodities and this is reflected in the cost of our policies.
risk committee GCRC which includes the Chief Executive Officer CEO, the CFO, and the global trading and risk managers.
The GCRC Market and trading risks acts under the authority of the Board, and delegates limits and authorities to local risk committees, which have been established in each of A significant number of the projects in which we have an interest our trading operations to oversee the management of the market, operate without PPAs and are, therefore, vulnerable to market forces, operational and credit risks arising from our marketing and trading which determine the price and amounts of power sold and fuel activities.
The local risk committees include the trading manager, purchased.
In particular, the majority of our plants in the UK, North global and local risk managers, Directors and senior managers.
America and Australia operate on a merchant basis.
In order to limit our exposure to market movements, we hedge a proportion of our Energy market risks and counterparty exposures on our asset anticipated output by forward selling power and buying forward related and proprietary portfolios are measured and managed using various commodities including fuel, transmission rights, capacity and emission statistical techniques.
Italy 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 23 07 10:12 Page 18 We address country risk exposures in several ways.
Country risk Investments in new projects assessment is an important element of our due diligence prior to When we invest in assets that operate, or will operate, on a merchant participating in a project and we favour projects where international basis we make assumptions regarding long-term spreads.
There is arbitration is available for resolving disputes.
Once projects are a large degree of uncertainty in these forecasts, which include operational, International Power always strives to be a good neighbour, assumptions concerning: supporting the local, regional and national communities wherever supply and demand characteristics: possible.
We also attempt to maintain good relationships with political new entrant economics used to forecast power prices from the institutions and our customers.
date at which new capacity is required: The size of our portfolio dilutes the effect of a dispute, at any given market and environmental regulation, particularly the cost of asset, on the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, non-recourse debt 2 carbon dioxide CO allowances and limits on other emissions: arrangements limit our financial exposure to the loss of our equity correlations between power prices and fuel prices.
investment and the future cash flows from the project.
Thus, whilst the loss or impairment of a project would affect the financial performance We carry out detailed investigations and develop sophisticated of the Group, other operating companies would remain unaffected.
market models prior to investing in new merchant plants.
Construction and operational risks Fuel supply risks Costs of new power plants are significant, and the build phase has Fuel supply security is fundamental to our business.
Most of our markets programme delayed completion and technical performance risk.
have robust supply infrastructures, and other measures that further enhance It is our policy, wherever possible, to award major projects on an our position.
These include: mines local to the power plant, fuel storage, engineering, procurement and construction EPC basis to suitably dual-fuel capability and sourcing from a number of reputable suppliers.
EPC contracts transfer the majority of the design Consequently, we have experienced very few supply interruptions that and construction risks to the contractor, and provide substantial have had an impact on operations, and none that have had material protection through liquidated damages, in the event of failure on adverse effects on financial performance.
the part of the contractor to meet contractual completion or plant We procure fuel under a variety of contractual arrangements ranging performance targets.
We supplement this contractual protection from long-term fuel supply agreements FSAs to on-the-day merchant with insurances.
The principal determinant of our fuel supply activity is the As with many other industrial sectors, the power plant sector has need to match purchases to power sales, both in terms of volume and consolidated over the past two decades.
Whilst there is currently a price.
Hence, we operate long-term FSAs at assets where we have longcompetitive market, further consolidation could change this situation, term PPAs and predominantly merchant supply arrangements in our increasing prices and reducing our ability to secure commercial merchant power markets.
We would also be exposed to It is not always possible to achieve an exact balance between fuel concentration risk, becoming dependent on a very small number of purchases and power production.
This is particularly an issue for our suppliers for replacement parts, overhaul and maintenance contracts.
projects with PPAs, where the associated FSAs often have minimum Currently we have long-term relationships with a number of original fuel purchase obligations.
By structuring the purchases flexibly and equipment manufacturers across our fleet, including Alstom, incorporating appropriate force majeure protection, we are able General Electric, Mitsubishi and Siemens.
to mitigate this risk to ensure as far as possible that the price and Power plants are characterised by extremely high temperatures, volume obligations in the PPA and FSA mirror one another.
pressures, rotational velocities and voltages.
Providing a safe environment for people on our sites and in surrounding areas is Country and political risks a major priority.
We achieve this by a combination of engineering and Most of our projects with PPAs are in countries with some degree of operational procedures and standards, provision of training, performance country risk.
In the past, some PPA tariffs have been reopened by our monitoring and by employing experienced staff.
We do not currently foresee the prospect of further renegotiations but this remains a possibility.
18 Business and financial review Our approach to risk and risk management 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 24 07 11:13 Page 19 We are a minority partner in a number of projects and do not set measures is currently most apparent at our European plants, where we operational standards in all cases.
In such circumstances we provide are required to ensure that we have sufficient carbon credits to support support where appropriate and attempt to use our influence to achieve our expected levels of generation.
Certain of our projects have change standards that are equivalent to our own.
However, our ability to of law protection, which enables us to pass on any carbon costs to the influence partners varies.
In such cases carbon risk is removed.
During the build period we closely monitor the progress of four major In the US and Australia there are active discussions at both the state and factors: construction programme, cost, quality and safety.
Once a plant federal level that could lead to CO limitations being introduced some 2 is in operation we monitor performance by reference to a number of time in the future.
The absence of single, centrally sponsored, debates performance indicators, including the technical availability KPI, which is increases the unpredictability of final outcomes.
At the global level there a measure of reliability.
is uncertainty over what, if anything, will replace the Kyoto convention on climate change when it expires at the end of 2012.
Health, safety and environmental HS&E risks Most governments in developed countries have introduced legislation Poor health, safety and environmental performance has the potential to to incentivise renewable generation to the point where growth in adversely affect our business.
Risks range from enforced plant closures renewable generation may have a material impact on our fossil fuelled and substantial fines to damage to the well-being of our staff and to plants.
In response, we made a major investment in renewable energy our reputation in the wider community.
during 2006 and we are implementing clean coal and carbon capture technology at Hazelwood.
HS&E compliance activities We have also dedicated resources to reviewing technology trends in At plant level, HS&E requirements are set by local and national standards order to ensure that we are well positioned to participate in the drive and regulations, and individual plants operate within site specific towards a lower carbon environment.
We have an ongoing HS&E audit programme to provide assurance in this area and we closely monitor Staffing and HR risks accident frequency rate AFR statistics and breaches of environmental The power industry has a history of long-term employment at plant permits.
AFR and reportable environmental incidents are amongst and corporate level and staffing is not generally a day-to-day risk issue.
Our industry is highly competitive and we have to balance resources Plant operating and monitoring procedures are effective in ensuring that against the need to contain costs.
We utilise our extensive experience we comply with the conditions of our environmental licenses and consents.
to make these judgements and have the ability to mobilise people at Whilst we have experienced occasional breaches of our environmental short notice to mitigate the risk of loss of key staff.
To date we have operating limits, there have been no recent incidents that have posed a not experienced any disruption of note as a result of unexpected significant threat to the environment or to our ability to run our plants.
Sites are required to adhere to a set of corporate health and safety standards We anticipate that terrorism will remain a threat to our staff and and to local regulations.
Health and safety performance is the responsibility assets for the foreseeable future.
In order to reduce this threat we liaise of our plant managers, who are supported by local health and safety with local law enforcement organisations on security issues and our specialists.
Our global health and safety manager is responsible for ensuring corporate security specialist assists vulnerable sites to assess and reduce that our corporate standards remain current and are understood by all of their exposures.
We also utilise the services of a global security our sites.
consultancy to ensure that our risk assessments and physical security measures fully reflect local conditions.
The consultancy additionally has Global warming and development of environmental regulation the capacity to provide personal security services if required.
Environmental legislation is one of the key drivers of the long-term Certain of our sites are highly unionised.
We have not been affected by development of the electricity industry.
Initiatives to reduce greenhouse industrial action for several years but this remains a risk.
We maintain gas emissions are expected to increasingly restrict our ability to emit active dialogues with staff unions to ensure that we are aware of any CO, and hence our ability to use fossil fuels to generate power without 2 potential issues in good time to mitigate our risks.
the use of carbon capture and storage.
The impact of carbon reduction Annual Report 2006 19
