Directors report - Business review Principal risks and uncertainties Interserve operates in a business environment in which a number Major contracts of risks and uncertainties exist.
While it is not possible to As Interserve focuses on large-volume relationships with certain eliminate these completely, the established risk-management major clients for a significant part of its revenue, termination of and internal control procedures, which are regularly reviewed by one or more of the associated contracts would be likely to the Risk Committee on behalf of the Board, are designed to reduce revenue and profit for the Group.
In addition, the manage their effects and so to contribute to the creation of management of such contracts entails potential risks including value for the Groups shareholders as we pursue our business mis-pricing, inaccurate specification, failure to appreciate risks objectives.
The Group continues to be dependent on effective being taken on, poor control of costs or of service delivery and maintenance of its systems and controls.
Over and above that, failure to recover, in part or in full, payments due for work the principal risks and uncertainties which the Group addresses undertaken.
In PFI PPP contracts, which can last for periods of through its risk-management measures are: around 30 years and typically require the Special Purpose Companies SPCs established by Interserve and one or more Market change third parties to provide for the future capital replacement of Among the market changes which could affect Interserves assets, there is a risk that such a company may fail to anticipate business are: shifts in the economic climate both in the UK and adequately the cost or timing of the necessary works or that internationally: alterations in the UK governments policy with there may be increases in costs, including wage inflation, regard to expenditure on improving public infrastructure, beyond those anticipated.
buildings and services: delays in the procurement of government-related projects: market saturation in the Middle Among the Groups mitigation strategies are targeting work East: shifts in the political climate in some of the regions in within, or complementary to, its existing competencies, the which we operate: changes in our competitors behaviour: and fostering of long-term relationships with clients, operating an the imposition of unusually onerous contract conditions by major authority matrix for the approval of large bids, monthly clients.
Any of these might result in a failure to win new management reporting with key performance indicators at contracts in our chosen growth markets or to win contracts contract and business level, the use of monthly cost-value which are sufficiently profitable.
reconciliation, taking responsibility for the administration of our PFI PPP SPCs, securing Board representation in them and The Group seeks to mitigate these risks by fostering long-term ensuring that periodic benchmarking and or market testing are relationships with its clients and by operating in various regions included in long-term contracts.
We constantly monitor market conditions and assess our capabilities in comparison to those of our Key people competitors.
Whether we win, lose or retain a contract we The success of Interserves business is dependent on recruiting, analyse the reasons for our success or shortcomings and feed the retaining, developing, motivating and communicating with information back at both tactical and strategic levels.
appropriately skilled, competent people of integrity at all levels of the organisation.
The members of the management team contribute to Interserves ability to obtain, generate and manage opportunities.
We have various incentive schemes and run a broad range of training courses for people at all stages in their careers.
With active human resources management and Investors in People accreditation in many parts of the Group, we manage our people professionally and encourage them to develop and fulfil their maximum potential with Interserve.
26 Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 Health and safety regime The nature of the businesses conducted by the Group involves exposure to health and safety risks for both employees and third parties.
Management of these risks is critical to the success of the business and is implemented through the adoption and maintenance of rigorous operational and occupational health and safety procedures.
A commitment to safety forms part of Interserves mission statement and the subject leads every Board meeting both at Group and divisional level.
Each member of the Executive Committee undertakes dedicated visits to look at health and safety measures in place at our operational sites and we have ongoing campaigns across the Group emphasising its importance.
Financial risks The Group is subject to certain financial risks which are discussed in the Financial review on page 25.
In particular, Interserve carries out major projects which from time to time, require substantial amounts of cash to finance working capital, capital expenditure and investment in PFI projects.
Failure to manage working capital appropriately could result in the Group being unable to meet its trading requirements and ultimately to defaulting on its banking covenants.
Interserve has policies in place to monitor the effective management of working capital, including the production of daily balances, weekly cash reports and forecasts together with monthly management reporting.
Interserve recognises a pension deficit on its balance sheet.
The deficits value is sensitive to several key assumptions, and any significant changes in these may result in the Group having to increase its pension scheme contribution with a resultant impact on liquidity.
Damage to reputation Issues arising within contracts, from Interserves management of its businesses or from the behaviour of its employees at all levels can have broader repercussions on the Groups reputation than simply their direct impact.
Control procedures and checks governing the operation of our contracts and of our businesses are supported by business continuity plans and arrangements for managing the communication of issues to Interserves stakeholders.
