Business review continued Risks and uncertainties The Group may be exposed to additional liabilities Invensys operates globally in varied markets and with respect to its UK and US pension plans manages the risks inherent in its activities.
The interaction of, among other things, increased Management uses a common model to identify life expectancy, equity market performance and low and assess the impact of risks to their businesses.
interest rates over the past several years has had For each risk the likelihood and consequence are a significant negative impact on the funding levels of the Groups pension plans including the Groups identified, management controls and frequency plans in both the UK and the US.
This has materially of monitoring are confirmed and results reported.
and adversely affected the pension plan funding Invensys seeks to mitigate exposure to all forms obligations of the Group.
These developments have of risk, where practicable, and to transfer risk to been exacerbated by the Groups very high insurers, where cost-effective.
proportion of pensioners relative to its active workforce.
With respect to both the Group pension The more significant risks and uncertainties faced plans for its UK operations the UK Plan and for by the Group, which could cause the Groups actual its US operations the US Plan, any decline in the results to vary materially from historic and expected equity market, improvements in life expectancy, results, are set out below.
changes in expected morbidity rates or future decreases in interest rates could increase the funding The Groups substantial debt could adversely deficit and require additional funding contributions affect its ability to service its debt and in excess of those currently expected.
An increase in other liabilities required funding contributions could have a material The Group has a substantial amount of debt and adverse effect on the Groups business, financial similar liabilities, and a deficit on shareholders condition and results of operations.
The Groups ability to comply with its financial covenants, to make scheduled payments United Kingdom or to refinance its debt and other obligations will In the UK, although the proportion of the assets of depend on, among other things, its gearing, its the UK Plan invested in equities has been reduced, operating performance and its liability management and further diversification is expected to be programme particularly pensions, which, in turn, undertaken by the trustee of the plan the Trustee, are subject to prevailing economic conditions and a proportion of the UK Plans assets must be certain financial, competitive, regulatory, technical, invested in assets other than fixed interest securities business and other factors beyond its control.
if the UK Plan is to meet the investment returns If the Groups cash flow and capital resources are required for the UK Plan to become fully funded.
insufficient to fund its debt service requirements, A level of investment in equities will remain and its liability management programme and its other the UK Plan therefore remains subject to the risk obligations, the Group may be forced to reduce or of declines in equity markets.
Equally, as the UK Plan delay scheduled expansion and capital expenditures, investments become diversified, the UK Plan will sell material assets or operations, obtain additional inevitably become subject to the risk of decline in capital or restructure its debt.
There can be no a wider range of assets, notwithstanding that each assurance that the Groups operating performance, new asset class will represent a smaller proportion cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient to of the funds assets than equities do at present.
service the Groups debt and other liabilities in the future.
In the event that the Group is required to On 28 March 2006, the Company and the Trustee dispose of material assets or operations or to entered into a funding plan for the UK Plan, based restructure its debt or other obligations, there on the triennial actuarial valuation of the UK Plan can be no assurance as to the terms of any such undertaken with a reference date of 30 September transaction, disposal or restructuring, how soon 2005, which indicated a funding deficit of 325 any such transaction could be completed or whether million on the reference date.
The Trustee and the any such transaction or transactions would allow the Company agreed a recovery plan to eliminate the Group to satisfy its obligations with respect to its deficit which involved a payment of 105 million debt and other liabilities.
made on 29 March 2006, payments of 20 million in each of the years ending 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2008, and payments of 35 million per annum thereafter adjusted for inflation until the deficit is eliminated anticipated to be in September 2014.
The Company has also agreed to pay the Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 25 Business review continued annual employer service cost for the UK Plan which If the UK Plan were to be wound up, the relevant in the year ending 31 March 2007 is expected to employers would be responsible, under section 75 be 16 million.
In addition, the Company will make of the Pensions Act 1995, to fund the UK Plan up to additional payments to the UK Plan out of the the level of the cost of buying out the benefits for proceeds of disposals.
Except where the UK all scheme members with an insurer.
This cost would be considerably more than the value placed on the regulatory regime requires a higher sum to be paid, liabilities while the scheme is ongoing.
The deficit in the Company will contribute 8% of the proceeds of the UK Plan calculated on a winding-up basis was business disposals net of tax and costs subject to approximately 1.8 billion as at 30 September 2005. a fide minimis proceeds level of 1 million.
The UK If triggered, such a liability would have a material Pensions Regulator may review the funding plan, adverse effect on the Groups business, financial and, if it is not satisfied that it will eliminate the condition and results of operations and could result funding deficit in a short enough period of time, in the insolvency of the Company and most of its may put pressure on the Trustee to seek to revise it.
The funding plan is subject to revision after the next Funding obligations on a share of the buy-out basis valuation to be undertaken by the Trustee, which can also arise under section 75 of the Pensions Act must have a reference date no later than 30 1995 if an employer ceases to participate in the UK September 2008 although the Trustee is free to call Plan e. g. on a sale.
Such section 75 debt would be for a further valuation on any earlier date it sees fit.
by reference to the relevant employing companys If the funding deficit of the UK Plan revealed by share of the total buy-out debt the total buy-out such valuation the revised deficit is such that the debt being equivalent to the funding deficit contributions agreed under the current recovery calculated on a winding-up basis.
In certain limited plan will not clear the revised deficit, the Trustee circumstances the Trustee of the UK Plan and the UK may seek increased contributions from the Company.
Pensions Regulator may agree to a reduction in the Such increased contributions would need to be amount of this debt.
Such obligations, after any agreed by the Company, but if no agreement is agreed reductions, may lead to contributions to the reached, the UK Pensions Regulator has statutory UK Plan on a disposal of a business being in excess power to fix the contribution rate.
Such a position of the 8% of disposal proceeds agreed with the could arise if the funds investments do not produce Trustee in the recovery plan.
the rate of return targeted by the Trustee, if the scheme liabilities are increased by further falls in It is possible that such funding obligations could interest rates, if there are further improvements prevent Invensys entering into business disposals in life expectancy assumptions which have to be involving employers participating in the UK Plan if brought into account in the scheme valuation, or the amount of the funding obligation arising under other changes in the valuation assumptions which section 75 made such a disposal uneconomic and cause liabilities to increase.
The Company cannot the Trustee of the UK Plan and or the UK Pensions rule out the possibility that the assumptions used in Regulator were unwilling to agree to a reduction in the valuation as at 30 September 2005 may change the debt to a point where a disposal became viable.
in the future causing liabilities to increase.
The UK Pensions Regulator also has statutory powers The trust deed of the UK Plan does not contain in some circumstances to require persons connected a unilateral power for the Trustee of the UK Plan or associated with an employer such as other to wind up the UK Plan.
However, the Trustee may companies within the Group to contribute to make an application to the UK Pensions Regulator underfunding in a UK pension scheme such as the for an order to wind up the UK Plan.
order can only be made if the UK Pensions Regulator is satisfied that both the winding up of the UK Plan is necessary to protect the interests of the members of the UK Plan and that it is reasonable to make such an order.
26 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 If the US Plan were to be involuntarily terminated by United States a court and the ERISA controlled group were to be The interests of the participants in the US Plan are required to fund the underfunded amount with under the oversight of the Pension Benefit Guaranty respect to the US Plan or, failing which, the PBGC Corporation the PBGC which is empowered to were granted a lien over any assets of the members seek a court order to terminate the US Plan if, of the ERISA controlled group, this would have a among other things, the PBGC demonstrates that material adverse effect on the Groups business, required minimum funding contributions under the financial condition and results of operations.
US Plan have not been made or the possible longrun loss of the PBGC with respect to the US Plan The US legislature is currently considering proposals may reasonably be expected to increase unreasonably to procure the repayment of pension deficits over if the plan is not terminated.
If a court were to a set period, most likely seven years.
Should this determine that the US Plan failed to satisfy either of legislation be passed, Invensys would be required the foregoing tests, it could terminate the US Plan.
to increase its ongoing contributions to US pension As a result, the Company and each of its subsidiaries plans to levels significantly higher than the regular in which it holds at least 80% of the voting power contributions made in recent years.
or equity the ERISA controlled group would be jointly and severally liable for the full amount of the The Group could be exposed to further underfunded liability under the US Plan, which was deterioration in its financial results if the approximately $500 million as at 31 December 2005. restructuring and turnaround initiatives of If such underfunded amount were not paid to the certain of the Groups significant businesses PBGC upon its demand, the PBGC would be granted are not successful an automatic lien securing the underfunded amount, In response to poor operating performance due to subject to a maximum amount of 30% of the net difficult external trading conditions for Controls, APV worth of all members of the ERISA controlled group.
and Eurotherm and deficiencies in internal execution capabilities in APV and Controls, the Group has On 25 February 2004, the Company entered into an significant restructuring activities in process in these agreement with the PBGC providing that the PBGC three businesses.
These restructuring activities and would forbear from instituting proceedings to turnaround initiatives involve the closure of a terminate the US Plan in advance of or as a result number of production facilities and changes in of the 2004 refinancing or any sale of a business.
In management and there is therefore a risk of consideration for the PBGCs forbearance agreement, disruption to the business through industrial action the Company agreed to accelerate contributions to and, potentially, continuity and quality of products the US Plan in order to maintain an agreed level of and services.
In addition, there is a risk that the funding of the US Plan for a period not to exceed implementation of these activities may not be five years or until an agreed maximum level of successful, resulting in loss of market share and a funding of the US Plan is attained, if sooner.
further deterioration in the Groups financial results.
Pursuant to the agreement, the Company contributed $150 million over the three-month The Group is subject to ongoing litigation period following consummation of the 2004 and environmental liabilities refinancing, and has contributed over $45 million The Group currently has substantial liabilities out of the proceeds of the disposals of the in aggregate in relation to environmental claims, Powerware, Hansen, ABS EMEA and Lambda disputed taxes, costs associated with past disposals businesses and other smaller disposals.
The Company of businesses and ongoing litigation.
Invensys is also is obligated to contribute, as additional subject, from time to time, to litigation in the contributions, 4% of net proceeds from any future ordinary course of business.
Members of the Group disposals during the term of the agreement plus are also defendants in a number of lawsuits in the such additional amount in excess of the minimum United States and the UK in which the plaintiffs funding requirements under ERISA, if any, required claim damages for personal injury arising from to maintain the agreed level of funding.
Under the alleged exposure to asbestos and silica.
The Group agreement with the PBGC, such additional amounts continues to tackle these liabilities and has made are due by 31 March following the end of the plan provision for them where appropriate but if the year.
The PBGCs forbearance agreement will actual liabilities exceed these provisions it could terminate under certain circumstances including the have a material adverse effect on the Groups Companys failure to make the required business, financial condition and results of contributions or acceleration of any credit facility operations.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 27 Business review continued The Groups operations are subject to European, and regulations or other factors affecting its US and other laws and regulations governing the businesses.
Unexpected change in any of these discharge of substances into the environment or variables could significantly impair the Groups otherwise relating to environmental protection performance, as could failure to comply with the including hazardous waste disposal and public and relevant laws, regulations or standards, which could damage the reputation of the Group.
Breach of these laws could result in business interruption and or the imposition The Group faces intense competition that could of civil or criminal penalties which could have a reduce its margins and revenue growth material adverse effect on the Groups business, Invensys operates in highly competitive markets and financial condition and results of operations.
the Groups products and services are characterised by continually evolving industry standards and In addition, the environmental laws of various rapidly changing technology driven by the demands jurisdictions impose actual and potential obligations of the Groups customers.
The Group invests in on the Group to remediate contaminated sites, research and development to sustain competitive including some sites no longer owned by the Group.
advantage, and also works continually to ensure that Provision is made for the expected cost of its cost base is competitive.
However, if the Groups remediation, based on independent professional businesses fail to keep pace with technological advice.
There is a risk that remediation could prove changes and delivery and product requirements more costly than expected and that further in the industrial sectors, the Group may fail, or contamination could be discovered.
experience delay, in introducing new or enhanced products.
This may result in lower margins and loss The amounts provided in the Groups accounts in of market share.
respect of the above liabilities are based on current knowledge.
All of the above liabilities are subject The expansion or opening of manufacturing and to a number of uncertainties, assumptions and engineering facilities in jurisdictions with lower contingencies.
While the Group continually monitors operating costs, including in Asia and other these liabilities, there can be no assurance that these developing economies, may expose the Group liabilities will not be substantially higher or become to losses payable sooner than currently anticipated or that In response to increased competition, especially any of the current reserves in the Groups accounts from low-cost manufacturers in Asia, the Group in respect of any such liabilities will be sufficient.
If intends to increase its operating efficiencies and these liabilities were to be substantially higher than decrease its operating costs by acquiring, opening currently estimated or if currently unknown liabilities or, in certain cases, expanding manufacturing and should arise, the resulting increase in the Groups engineering facilities in countries that have lower liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the operating costs, including in Asia and other Groups business, financial condition and results of developing economies.
In order to carry out the operations.
opening or expansion of facilities in lower-cost countries successfully, the Group will be required Operating in global markets subjects the Group to commit resources to close down existing facilities, to risks associated with changes in political make personnel redundant and to purchase the and economic conditions and in applicable laws appropriate property, plant and equipment at the and regulations new location.
Transition issues may cause disruption Invensys derives a significant portion of its revenue to the businesses.
In addition, the Group will be from customers in Europe and North America and required to hire managers and technicians with this latter market is particularly important to the industry knowledge, or, if managers or technicians Controls business.
The Group operates in over 60 are not available in the local market, commit countries and is subject to a broad range of laws, resources to providing appropriate training for regulations and standards in each of the jurisdictions employees.
There can be no assurance that any such in which it operates.
In addition, the Group has no move will result in lower costs or be successful or control over changes in inflation, interest rates, meet the pricing pressure coming from low-cost foreign currency exchange rates and controls, manufacturers.
political and economic conditions, changes in laws 28 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 The Groups business could be harmed if it is The Group is exposed to risks associated with unable to protect its intellectual property rights the commercial failure of new products, projects The Group currently has limited protection for and technologies certain of its intellectual property, particularly in The Group develops new technologies and relation to the intellectual property of the Process introduces new products, in some cases contracting to supply the products to the customer before the Systems business.
Certain of the Groups know-how, design is established or proven.
All new technologies particularly in relation to applications or solutions and products involve business risk in terms of products, are embedded in those products and as possible abortive expenditure, reputational risk, and such it may be difficult to manage or protect such potentially customer claims or onerous contracts.
As a result, the Group may not be in a Such risks may have a material adverse effect on the position to prevent third parties from replicating its Groups business, financial condition and results products or the processes and know-how used to of operations.
In particular, the Groups intellectual property rights in the ArchestrA and Adverse currency fluctuations can negatively InFusion products are important to the future impact the Groups revenue and net income prospects of the Group.
If the Groups competitors The Group is exposed to two types of currency risk.
succeed in reproducing its products at comparatively There is translation risk in that the Groups financial low costs, or in improving or exploiting its statements are stated in pounds sterling.
Most of the unprotected products, processes or know-how, this Groups revenue and expenses are denominated in could have a material adverse effect on the Groups currencies other than pounds sterling, primarily the financial condition and results of operations.
The revenue and expenses are addition, the Group may be unable to protect itself translated into pounds sterling at the applicable from infringement in jurisdictions in which it may exchange rates for inclusion in the Groups be unable to obtain adequate intellectual property consolidated financial statements.
The exchange rate rights or is unable to enforce its intellectual between these currencies and pounds sterling can property rights.
Currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on the Groups The Group may be subject to claims of business, financial condition and results of infringement of third-party intellectual operations.
property rights From time to time, third parties may assert against The Groups operations are also subject to currency the Group or its customers alleged patent, copyright, transaction risks where revenue is denominated in trademark and other intellectual property rights a currency that is different from that in which the to technologies that are important to its business.
related manufacturing costs were incurred.
If the Any claims that the Groups products or processes currency in which the expenses are denominated infringe the intellectual property rights of others, increases in value relative to the currency in which regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, revenue is denominated, the Groups operating could cause it to incur significant costs in responding margins decrease.
In addition, the Group is impacted to, defending and resolving such claims and may by currency transaction risk in relation to its debt.
divert the efforts and attention of the Groups management and technical personnel away from its The Group may be subject to liabilities business.
If any infringement or other intellectual as a result of past or future disposals property claim made against the Group by any third Over the past several years, the Group has made party is successful, or if the Group fails to develop a number of significant disposals.
In many cases, non-infringing technology or license the rights to the the Group has agreed to retain known or pre-sale technology on commercially reasonable terms, there liabilities or share the liabilities with the purchaser.
may be a material adverse effect on the Groups However, the Group has retained both known and business, financial condition and results of operations.
unknown liabilities of businesses disposed of in the past and the Group expects that it will retain liabilities in respect of any future disposals, either contractually, through the provision of certain Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 29 Business review continued indemnities and representations and warranties The Group may be subject to liability as a result regarding the disposed businesses, or otherwise.
of product liability claims Any such liabilities could result in a cash outflow The Group has incurred and may continue to incur from the Group and have a material adverse effect product liability claims.
There can be no assurance on the Groups business, financial condition and that the Group will not face material product liability results of operations.
claims, warranty claims or product recalls and associated claims in the future, particularly as some Undertaking large, long-term fixed price projects of the Groups products are safety-critical.
Any errors exposes the Groups business to risk of loss and defects in the Groups products, systems or A significant number of the Groups businesses applications could cause injury to persons or damage involve long-term projects some on a fixed price, to property and equipment.
These occurrences could that can take many months or even years to result in claims, loss of revenue, warranty costs, costs complete.
These projects may be subject to delays and damages associated with product recalls, litigation, delay in market acceptance or harm to the and cost overruns due to delays in equipment Groups reputation for safety and quality.
The Group deliveries, engineering problems, work stoppages, may not be able to dispose of any such claims unanticipated cost increases, shortages of materials successfully or effect any product recalls without or skilled labour or labour unrest or other unforeseen incurring significant costs, which in each case could problems.
Further, these projects may be particularly have a material adverse effect on the Groups susceptible to cost overruns and delays due to the business, financial condition and results of engineering and construction uncertainties inherent operations.
in the nature of the projects.
Industry consolidation has resulted in fewer Any cost overruns or delays may require the Group, customers and certain of the Groups businesses among other things, to seek to incur additional are dependent on a small number of customers indebtedness to complete a particular project which A number of the industries in which the Groups could have a material adverse effect on the Groups customers operate have experienced consolidation business, financial condition and results of particularly in the sectors served by Process Systems.
This has affected many of the Groups customers and their relationships with the Group.
For example, In addition, the Group operates, especially through when a customer of one of the Groups competitors its Rail Systems, Process Systems and APV businesses, acquires one of the Groups customers, the Group within a competitive contracting environment that has generally lost business.
Additionally, customers sells to governmental authorities and private sector ability to exert pricing pressure on suppliers, contractors.
Contracting conditions normally include including the Group, has increased as these provisions for liquidated damages for delay and customers have become larger and more railway disruption costs and in a limited number concentrated.
In addition, the Groups Rail Systems of cases may include unliquidated liability for business and, with respect to its North American consequential loss.
Although liability is usually businesses, the Groups Controls business depend on capped at a percentage of the total contract price, a limited number of large customers in the business there are exceptions, including in Spain and Portugal areas in which they operate.
Reliance on a limited where the Rail Systems business has substantial number of customers may increase volatility for the operations, Asia, and in other jurisdictions where Rail Systems and the Controls businesses if they are procurement laws applicable to public bodies could unable to retain these customers or the customers prohibit the exclusion or limitation of liabilities experience delays stemming from financial or arising from breach of contract.
operational difficulties, including industrial action.
For example, recently it has been announced by the Transport Salaried Staff Association and the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers that they intend to ballot their members for potential industrial action in regard to the Railways Pension Scheme.
30 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 The timing and frequency of substantial contract material portion of the raw materials, parts, awards for the Groups Rail Systems business are components or services that the Group requires, unpredictable and the supplier market for many of the businesses The revenue of the Groups Rail Systems business is fragmented.
Any significant shortages and delays depends on a small number of large customers, such by suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results as Network Rail and the Public Private Partnership of operations.
consortia in the UK and other large rail and masstransport operators in Europe, Asia Pacific and the Periods of shortage, particularly of raw materials and US.
New contract awards are generally associated semi-conductors, may be accompanied by rapid rises with major transport infrastructure upgrades and as in prices and there can be no assurance that such a result by their nature are large and infrequent.
cost increases can be wholly recovered from the Funding for these new projects is frequently Groups customers.
dependent on governmental investment decisions and these may be affected by changes in political If the Group is unable to retain key personnel and economic conditions.
As a result the timing of and hire additional personnel, it may not be able contract awards is uncertain and delays in awards to effectively implement its business strategy may result in volatility in the results of the Rail and could experience delays in the development Systems business and have a material adverse effect of, or increased difficulty in selling, its products on the Groups business, financial condition and and services results of operations.
The Group is currently going through a period of significant change in its head office senior The Group depends upon the ability of third management team including changes to the Board.
parties to deliver parts, components, services In addition, there have been a number of changes and raw materials in a timely manner to senior management positions in certain of the The Group uses many different types of raw Groups businesses, and many of the appointees are materials to produce its products.
Key raw materials new to the Group with limited knowledge of the include the following: organisation.
electronic components and equipment, including semi-conductors: Invensys believes its future success will depend computer hardware and operating systems in part upon its ability to attract and retain highly software: skilled personnel.
The Group has in the past metals, including in particular titanium, in various experienced difficulty in hiring and retaining forms: and employees with appropriate qualifications.
If the machined parts, bearings, fasteners, stampings, Group does not succeed in attracting and retaining fabrications, plastic resins and parts.
skilled personnel, it may not be able to manage and grow its business as anticipated.
Each of the Groups businesses relies on third parties to supply it with raw materials, parts, components and services.
Using third parties to manufacture, assemble and test its products reduces the Groups control over manufacturing yields, quality assurance, product delivery schedules and costs.
The third parties that supply the Group with raw materials, parts and components also have other customers and may not have sufficient capacity to meet all customer needs during periods of increased demand.
Although the Group works closely with its suppliers to avoid shortages, there can be no assurance that the Group will not encounter problems in the future or that it will be able to replace a supplier that is not able to meet the Groups demand.
None of the Groups suppliers individually supplies it with a Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 31
