30 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Business Review Risks and uncertainties Detail on the governance arrangements by which risks and We consider the following to be the most significant risk factors, uncertainties are monitored and managed is set out in the relating to the Companys operations.
The risks listed do not Corporate Governance section of the report at pages 89 to 92. necessarily comprise all those associated with ITV, and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not We view our work on risk as central to our aim of gauging the presently known to ITV, or that ITV currently deem immaterial, Companys risk appetite in a way which also allows market may also have an adverse effect on its business.
opportunities to be identified, and potential new revenue streams to be developed.
Broadcasting Risk description Impact Mitigation Erosion of televisions share Loss of revenue Development of revenue streams outside Broadcast advertising.
of total display advertising Promotion of TV versus other advertising media via active participation in the trade body Thinkbox Review of the impact of new technologies e. g. PVRs.
Continued decline in audience on ITV1 Decline in SOCI Development of predictive tools versus other commercial channels Loss of revenue Growth of the ITV family of channels ITV 2, ITV 3, ITV 4, Citv Investment in the ITV1 schedule The CRR remedy remains in place Pricing constraints on Application to OFT to review remedy delivery of volume audiences Design packages for advertisers that drive enhanced value Growth of non-ITV1 revenue streams Delivery of value from Network Ineffective use of funds Annual budget approval Programme Budget, including cost Segregation of commissioning and price negotiation of sports rights and acquisitions Formal approval process including financial limits for individual commissions acquisitions ROI analysis performed on all sports rights and acquisition deals e. g. films etc as well as for key programme commissions Performance ratchets in key talent deals and for key shows Key programme brands produced in house Loss of transmission Loss of revenue Northern and Southern transmission centres act Reputational risk as complementary back-up facilities Business continuity testing programme Emergency procedures in place Constant monitoring of systems by service providers Regular service and project review meetings with key suppliers Content Risk description Impact Mitigation Retention of key ITV employees Loss of profit Incentivisation schemes for key talent Volume and international appeal of Loss of revenue Continually building new relationships with independent UK programme supply for sales exploitation and overseas producers Increased development of programme ideas in owned overseas production centres USA, Australia, Germany Increased focus on exploiting the existing catalogue in new and traditional media Consumer Risk description Impact Mitigation Regulatory risk in relation to participation Loss of revenue Working pro-actively with the various regulators on the various TV revenues consultation processess in progress Examination of additional revenue streams Delivery of new consumer propositions e. g. Loss of revenue Appointment of management with proven track record itv.
com, ITV Local Reputational risk of success in these new areas Technology Action plan to provide clear strategic framework for internet-based initiatives.
General Risk description Impact Mitigation Pension scheme funding gap Additional funding Appointment of Investment Fund managers requirement and Custodians Trustees meet regularly to consider matters such as investment criteria, funding policy and legislative changes An Investment Committee of Trustees which reviews investment policies Formal actuarial valuations performed at least every three years to identify the solvency position Interest and exchange rate risk Loss of profit Formal interest rate and exchange rate risk policies Regular review of financial instruments position Weekly monitoring of mark to market values Policy to hedge major balance sheet exposures Formal quarterly forecasting of currency exposures
