Operating and Financial Review Platinum and Palladium Prices Rhodium Price US$ oz US$ oz 1,200 5,000 1,000 4,000 800 3,000 600 2,000 400 1,000 200 0 0 March 2004 March 2005 March 2006 March 2004 March 2005 March 2006 Platinum Palladium Rhodium Foreign Currency Risk Risks and Uncertainties Johnson Mattheys operations are located in over 30 countries, providing global coverage.
The majority of its profits are earned There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the groups long term outside the UK with the largest single investment being in the USA.
In order to protect the groups sterling balance sheet and performance.
reduce cash flow risk the group has financed most of its investment in the USA, Europe and Japan by borrowing US Technological Change and Patents dollars, euros and yen respectively.
Although a large element Much of the groups business is focused on selling products of this funding is obtained by directly borrowing the relevant which are technologically advanced or employ technologically currency, some is achieved through currency swaps which can advanced processes in their manufacture.
In most cases these be more efficient and reduce costs and credit exposure.
The products are subject to continuous improvement as new group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign technology is developed.
The group is exposed to the risk that exchange exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments if it does not keep up with changes in the market place its in foreign currencies.
Currency options are occasionally used to products will no longer be competitive.
This is both a threat hedge foreign exchange exposures, usually when the forecast and an opportunity since Johnson Matthey can gain business as receipt or payment amounts are uncertain.
Details of the well as lose it.
The groups strategy to meet this risk is to invest contracts outstanding on 31st March 2006 are shown on significantly in research and development to maintain or achieve page 86. leadership positions in those markets which offer sufficient added value to justify the long term investment required.
Precious Metal Prices The groups results are also impacted by the status of Fluctuations in precious metal prices can have a significant patents.
These include patents which the group itself registers and maintains, as well as the risks arising from new third party impact on Johnson Mattheys financial results.
Our policy for all manufacturing businesses is to limit this exposure by hedging patents and the benefits that arise from the expiry of third party patents.
All the groups divisions have significant registered against future price changes where such hedging can be done at acceptable cost.
The group does not take material exposures intellectual property.
Pharmaceutical Materials Division supplies active pharmaceutical ingredients to generic manufacturers and on metal trading.
All the groups stocks of gold and silver are fully hedged by can benefit when third party patents expire.
If actual patent lives differ from the expectations of the relevant group business, leasing or forward sales.
Currently the majority of the groups platinum stocks are unhedged because of the lack of liquidity such as by being extended or successfully challenged, this can affect the groups results.
The group has established policies in the platinum market.
both to monitor its existing patent portfolio and those of third parties, taking appropriate action as necessary in respect of infringement.
- Johnson Matthey 22 Legislation Commercial Relationships Much of the stimulus for the development and growth of Johnson Matthey benefits from close commercial relationships Johnson Mattheys products arises from new legislation with a number of key customers and suppliers.
The loss of any governing the environmental or health impact of its customers of these key customers or suppliers, or a significant worsening products in different jurisdictions worldwide.
This is most in commercial terms could have a material impact on the significant for Environmental Catalysts and Technologies where groups results.
historic and future growth depends on global tightening of Johnson Matthey devotes significant resources to emissions limits for on road and off road vehicles.
Legislation is supporting these relationships to ensure they continue to also relevant for some of the groups other businesses.
From time to time the group undertakes Catalysts and Technologies manufactures products to remove surveys of customer satisfaction which are reviewed by the contaminants or to produce particularly pure chemicals.
Some of the relationships are supported by long term Technologies is supported by legislation phasing out lead, contracts, notably the groups relationship with Anglo Platinum.
cadmium and other heavy metals from glass and ceramic glazes.
The development of the fuel cells industry is also impacted by Foreign Exchange clean air regulations and the drive towards zero emissions Johnson Matthey operates globally with the majority of the within both local and national legislation.
groups operating profit earned outside the UK.
It has significant Whilst the group has benefited considerably from the investments outside the UK with the single largest investment development of such legislation its growth could be adversely being in the USA.
As such the group is exposed to movements affected if the pace of legislative change slowed significantly.
in exchange rates between sterling and other world currencies, Johnson Matthey monitors the development of legislation particularly the US dollar, which could adversely or positively globally and coordinates its development work to ensure it can impact results.
The groups policies for managing its foreign achieve greatest advantage from each new requirement.
Regular currency exposures are set out in more detail on page 22. reviews are undertaken at the business and group level to monitor growth and to investigate other areas of potential if Precious Metal Prices and Controls legislation slows.
A large proportion of the groups activities involve managing precious metals which have inherent risks associated with them Global, Political and Economic Conditions in addition to bringing valuable business opportunities.
Johnson Matthey operates in over 30 countries around the While the group could be vulnerable to a global disruption world including several within Africa, Asia and Latin America.
in the supply of platinum group metals, it has access to world While benefiting from the opportunities and growth in these markets for these metals and is not dependent on any one regions the group is exposed to the economic, political and source for obtaining supplies for operations.
business risks associated with such international operations.
The Precious metals have high prices which can fluctuate group encounters different legal and regulatory requirements significantly and this can have a material impact on Johnson including those for taxation, environmental, operational and Mattheys results.
The groups policies for managing this risk are competitive matters.
It is exposed to the effect of political risk set out in more detail on page 22.
The high value of precious which can include sudden changes in regulations, expropriation metals means that any process losses could be material and of assets, imposition of trade barriers and wage controls, limits there remains the possibility of theft or fraud.
Johnson Matthey on the export of currency and volatility of prices, taxes and has extensive experience in operating with precious metals and currencies.
The group is exposed to possible natural employs strict security, assay and other process controls and catastrophe risk, for example through major earthquake or reviews to minimise any exposure.
Policies are reviewed flood, and possible terrorist action.
Management monitor such regularly by the Chief Executives Committee and reported risks, maintaining adequate insurance cover and amending to the Audit Committee.
business procedures as appropriate to mitigate any exposure while remaining in compliance with local and group Pensions requirements.
The groups defined benefit pension funds are well funded with a net surplus at 31st March 2006 of 51.5 million see page 72.
Environmental Liabilities However, this position is exposed to the risk of changes in The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual interest rates and the market values of investments as well as and potential obligations on the group to remediate contaminated inflation and increasing longevity of the members.
The sites, both those currently owned and, also in some cases, those assumptions used in calculating the funding position of the which have been sold.
Johnson Mattheys environmental policies pension funds are shown in detail on page 71.
These risks are are set out on page 30.
The group incurs costs annually in mitigated by paying appropriate contributions into the funds meeting these obligations and also maintains provisions for and through an investment asset allocation policy which has a potential liabilities.
If existing provisions are inadequate to cover high level of probability of avoiding a material deficit based on any liabilities or the associated costs arising from environmental the results of an asset liability matching study.
obligations this could materially impact the groups results.
