Business review Principal risks and uncertainties There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks which is comprehensive and systematic.
The appointment of Philip Fletcher as Chairman, Principal risks and uncertainties Social influences following his five years as Director General of Strategic, financial, commercial, operational, social, The group is subject to social influences and may Ofwat, helps to promote certainty and reduce environmental and ethical risks are all considered be required to change its business practices in regulatory risk during this transition period.
as part of Keldas internal controls, which are light of regulatory changes brought about by designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk public opinion in the face of consumer and of failure to achieve business objectives.
Changes in legislation they can only provide reasonable, not absolute, The group continually monitors and attempts to assurance against material misstatement or loss.
For example, following the passing of the Water Act influence proposed new European and UK legislation 2003, in future if we receive formal requests to which has potential to impact on the business.
For a more detailed explanation of our internal fluoridate from strategic health authorities that have controls, turn to the corporate governance section The Water Framework Directive is the most followed all the proper consultation procedures and on page 37. can demonstrate public support, we may be substantial piece of European water legislation obliged, where practicable, to carry out their wishes.
It requires all inland and coastal waters Although at present there are no immediate risks The company maintains a neutral position on to reach good status by 2015.
It will do this by considered likely to have a significant impact on whether fluoridation is effective or appropriate.
establishing a river basin district structure within the short or long term value of the group, the If required to fluoridate the water supply by certain which demanding environmental objectives will be principal risks identified fall into five categories: set, including ecological targets for surface waters.
Strategic Health Authorities, the company would have to introduce operational procedures to The Directive therefore sets a framework which changes to the regulatory environment: enable this.
aims to provide substantial benefits for the long changes in legislation: term sustainable management of water.
climate changes: Supplier markets social influences: As the recent fluctuation in energy prices has This new Directive has the potential to drive major supplier markets.
additional capital investment and increases in clearly illustrated, the group is also subject to external market forces, where input prices can rise customers charges.
Changes to the regulatory environment beyond the regulatory allowance.
The group is set allowed returns and price limits in a Climate changes relatively stable environment, with investment and In order to minimise the impact of energy price The groups core activities, the provision of price limits determined by Ofwat on a 5 year cycle.
fluctuations, Yorkshire Water follows a clear energy high quality water and sewerage services, are inextricably linked with the weather and therefore purchasing policy.
The group has also continued to On 1 April 2006, there were some changes at develop new ways of reducing consumption and any climate changes have the potential to impact Ofwat.
Although it will continue to be known as renewable energy sources such as wind turbines on business.
Ofwat, the statutory name changed to the Water at its treatment works.
A new board has As the groups resources are a mixture of water replaced the Director General and will now take captured in reservoirs or abstracted from rivers or responsibility for the economic regulation of the underground aquifers, climate change could alter water and sewerage industry in England and Wales.
many of the variables in this complex equation.
Kelda Group plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
