Risk factors LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Risk factors The Board continues to identify and meet existing needs.
The group needs to 6 review the risks which could have a be able to continue to respond and adapt Risk management and control material effect on the business, financial to these pressures whilst in a timely and in light of complexity and condition, prospects and share price cost-ef cient manner continuing to deliver variability of client contracts of LogicaCMG.
The risks that the Board existing products and services.
Failure to Many contracts are negotiated on individual deems to be material are listed below.
do so will be a risk to the groups success.
case-by-case bases with clients, which can Working with the Executive Committee, be both a risk and an opportunity.
A portion the Board continually reviews the 3 of the groups revenue is derived from xed actions needed to mitigate these risks.
price, unit-price or combined xed price Dependence on major and unit-priced contracts.
clients and contracts 1 In addition, the group enters managed A signi cant part of the groups revenue is service and fully outsourced contracts Dependence on recruitment derived from large contracts and framework which typically are longer in duration.
and retention of suitably agreements.
Although no one customer The group must provide for changes in quali ed personnel accounts for more than 3% of revenue, services and personnel over the term of The ability of the group to meet the a major client delaying or failing to renew these contracts.
The complexity, variability demands of the market and compete a contract could adversely affect the and duration of client contracts make risk effectively with other IT suppliers is, results of the group.
management and control more dif cult.
to a large extent, dependent on the If the group fails to adequately assess its skills, experience and performance of 4 risks, implement the required controls or its personnel and an appropriate balance monitor its position, any resulting failure to of onshore, nearshore and offshore Loss of authorisation or deliver the contract could adversely affect resources.
There is a high level of demand accreditation from the results of the group, its relationship for individuals with appropriate knowledge vendors or disruption of with the client or its reputation.
and experience in the IT services and key supplier relationships consultancy market.
The group provides A portion of the groups revenue is an infrastructure which supports the dependent on continued authorisation 7 development of its personnel through and accreditation by certain vendors of Reputational risk resulting programmes such as succession planning, IT software and hardware.
Without such from non-delivery leadership, talent management and service authorisations and accreditations The groups reputation for delivering on technical development.
The loss of key by these vendors, the group may be unable time, high-quality, professional services personnel or signi cant numbers of staff, to offer certain IT products and services.
is integral to maintaining and developing or the failure to attract a suf cient number Failure to maintain these authorisations its client relationships.
It is recognised that of suitably quali ed and experienced and accreditations may also result in the the groups differentiation lies in its deep personnel in our onshore, nearshore and group failing to ful l certain contractual industry knowledge, technical expertise, offshore locations, could have serious obligations.
There can be no assurances strong delivery skills and the long-term consequences on the groups ability that a vendor will not withdraw an nature of its client relationships.
Many to service client contracts.
authorisation or accreditation, which of the projects the group undertakes are may result in an adverse effect on the critical to the business operations and groups business.
2 information systems of its clients.
The failure or inability of the group to meet its Responsiveness to 5 clients expectations could have a material technological change adverse effect on the clients operations Many markets in which the group Exposure to country and regional and could result in damage to the groups operates, such as Telecoms and Media risk political, economic, social, reputation.
have been particularly susceptible to particularly in Europe and India rapidly changing technologies, regulation, As the group operates on an international economic conditions and uctuations basis, it is exposed to the risk of political, in client demand.
The group adopts a economic or social unrest in the territories balanced business and market portfolio in which it operates.
These risks are to endeavour to protect itself against many generally outside the control of the group of these uctuations, especially those that but could still result in the loss of services are restricted to individual territories and that would prejudice our ability to respond market sectors.
The implementation of to agreed service levels or ful l other For strategic objectives, see pages 2 to 9. an effective research and development obligations.
The group maintains business programme that exploits technology continuity plans to endeavour to deal advancements to produce innovative with many situations but there can be For glossary of Key Performance Indicators products is essential to both stimulate no assurance that the groups results see page 128. new client revenue opportunities and would not be affected by such an event.
