ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Principal risks and uncertainties Understanding our key risks and developing appropriate responses to those risks is key to Anglo Americans success Anglo American is exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties which may have a financial or reputational impact on the Group and which may also impact the achievement of social, economic and environmental objectives.
These risks include strategic, commercial, operational, compliance and financial risks.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group have been categorised into headline risk areas.
The Groups approach to risk management is set out in the corporate governance section on pages 59 to 65.
The key headline risks identi ed for 2006 7, potential impacts on the Group and the mitigation strategies are summarised below.
Key headline risks Safety, health and environment Mining is a hazardous industry and failure to adopt high levels of safety management can result in a number of negative outcomes: harm to our employees and the communities that live near our mines, harm to the environment as well as fines and penalties, liability to employees and third parties for injury and loss of reputation.
Anglo American sets a very high priority on safety, health and environmental issues.
Anglo American recognises the HIV AIDS epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa is a signi cant threat to economic growth and development.
In 2002 the Group announced it would provide anti-retroviral therapy to employees with HIV AIDS.
Anglo American also invests considerable resources in research and development to minimise the impact the Groups operations have on the environment, for example seeking ways to improve energy ef ciency.
The Group believes it must make an enduring contribution to the societies in which it operates, and implements principles of sustainable development.
In doing so the Group aspires to forge good relationships with its local communities.
Treasury risk management The Groups principal treasury policies are set by the Board.
The Board delegates responsibility for managing financial risk to the Executive Board.
The Group treasury acts as a service centre and operates within clearly fide ned guidelines that are approved by the Board.
Treasury front of ce and treasury back of ce are segregated and report to separate executive positions.
The Anglo American accounting department provides an independent control function to monitor and report on treasury activities, which are also subject to regular review by internal and external audit.
The treasury operations of the Groups listed subsidiaries are managed independently within the scope of the Group treasury policy.
The treasury operations of the Groups associates, fide Beers and AngloGold Ashanti, are independently managed.
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk arising from the need to finance its ongoing operations.
As a consequence of its global operations the Group is exposed to currency risk where transactions are not conducted in US dollars, where assets and liabilities are not determined in US dollars or where assets and liabilities are not US dollar denominated.
Commodity prices determined primarily by international markets and global supply and demand give rise to commodity price risk across the Group.
Cash deposits and other financial instruments, including trade receivables due from third parties, give rise to counterparty credit risk.
Further details of these risks and their management are provided in note 24 to the financial statements.
The main exchange rates giving rise to currency risk in the Group are shown on page 155.
52 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 Sensitivity analysis in respect of currency and commodity prices Set out below is the impact on underlying earnings of a 10% uctuation in some of the Groups commodity prices and exchange rates.
6 1 Commodity currency Average price rate 10% sensitivity US$ million Gold 604 $ oz 107 Platinum 1,142 $ oz 159 Palladium 321 $ oz 24 2 Coal 51 $ t 186 3 4 Copper 305 c lb 276 3 Nickel 1,095 c lb 37 3 Zinc 148 c lb 105 5 Iron ore 55 $ t 52 ZAR USD 6.77 449 AUD USD 1.33 72 CLP USD 530 21 Euro USD 0.80 60 GBP USD 0.54 7 1 Excludes the effect of any hedging activities.
Stated after tax at marginal rate.
Sensitivities are the average of the positive and negative and re ect the impact of a 10% change in the average prices received and exchange rates during 2006.
Increases in commodity prices increase underlying earnings and vice versa.
A strengthening of the rand, Australian dollar and Chilean peso relative to the US dollar reduces underlying earnings and vice versa.
A strengthening of the euro and pound sterling relative to the US dollar increases underlying earnings and vice versa.
2 Average price represents RSA-API 4 index.
Sensitivity re ects the impact of a 10% change in the average price across the entire Anglo Coal product portfolio.
3 Being the average LME price.
Sensitivity re ects the impact of a 10% change in the average price received.
4 Copper sensitivity excludes the impact of provisionally priced copper from 2005.
At 31 December 2006 there were 140,098 tonnes of provisionally priced copper sales, marked at 287 c lb 2005: 136,095 tonnes, marked at 202 c lb.
5 Average price represents iron ore lump.
Sensitivity re ects the impact of a 10% change in the average price across lump and ne.
6 oz denotes ounces, t denotes tonnes, c denotes US cents, lb denotes pounds.
Supplier risk Supplier risk remains a concern for the mining industry.
Procurement and supply chain excellence has been a major element of the Groups activities since 2000 with the inception of Project Angelo which is discussed in more detail on page 31.
Political, legal and regulatory Businesses may be affected by any political or regulatory developments in any of the countries and jurisdictions in which they operate, including changes to scal regimes or other regulatory regimes, which may result in restrictions on the export of currency, expropriation of assets and imposition of royalties.
The Group has no control over changes in local in ation, market interest rates or political acts or omissions which may deprive the Group of the economic bene ts of ownership of its assets.
The Group actively monitors regulatory and policy developments.
Event risk Damage to or breakdown of a physical asset including risk of re and explosion, can result in loss of revenue or consequential losses.
The Groups operations can be exposed to natural risks such as extreme weather conditions.
Specialist consultants are engaged to provide information regarding key event exposures and recommendations to reduce exposures.
Anglo American seeks to purchase insurance to protect against catastrophic event risk though conditions in global insurance markets mean this is not always possible or economic at certain times.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 53 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 | OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Reserves and resources The Groups mineral resources and ore reserves estimates are subject to a number of assumptions, including the price of commodities, production costs and recovery rates.
Fluctuations in these variables may have an impact on the long term financial condition and prospects of the Group.
In South Africa, the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development Act 2002 provides for conversion of existing mining and exploration rights to new order rights.
Conversion of these rights is subject to a variety of conditions and undertakings by the applicant, including employment, skills development and ownership by historically disadvantaged South Africans HDSAs, speci cally 15% ownership by 2009 and 26% by 2014.
Details of this conversion process and the Groups policy on reporting of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources with reference to the Act are expanded on in the speci c section on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates.
Employees The ability to recruit, develop and retain the appropriate skills for Anglo American is made dif cult by global competition for skilled labour amongst resource companies, particularly in periods of high commodity prices.
A number of strategies are implemented to mitigate this risk including attention to an appropriate suite of reward and bene t structures and ongoing re nement of Anglo American as an attractive employee proposition.
Operational performance Failure to meet production targets results in increased unit costs.
The impact is more pronounced at operations with a high level of xed costs.
Mitigation strategies include efforts to secure strategic supplies at competitive prices, energy reduction, increased use of green energy and sale of excess emission credits, use of cheaper alternative inputs, application of group water management guidelines and business improvement initiatives to reduce unit costs.
In addition, the Group manages a strong project pipeline.
In doing so the Group must manage the associated risk of meeting project delivery times and costs.
Acquisitions The Group has undertaken a number of acquisitions in the past.
With these, as with any such future transaction, there is the risk that any bene ts or synergies identi ed at acquisition may not be achieved.
Rigorous guidelines are applied to the evaluation and execution of all acquisitions, which require approval of the Investment Committee and Executive Board and, in the case of acquisitions beyond a certain value, the approval of the Board.
Infrastructure Inadequate supporting facilities, services, installations water, power, transportation, etc.
may impact the sustainability and or growth of the business, leading to loss of competitiveness, market share and reputation.
Anglo American promotes early development of strategy and alignment with infrastructure owner operator, development of relationships, participation in industry groups and lobbying to ensure effective provision of services by key utility providers.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are presented in note 1 to the financial statements, management necessarily makes judgements and estimates that have a signi cant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Changes in the assumptions underlying the estimates could result in a signi cant impact on the financial statements.
The most critical of these are: Useful economic lives of assets and ore reserves estimates The Groups mining properties, classi ed within tangible assets, are depreciated over the respective life of the mine using the unit of production UOP method based on proven and probable reserves.
When determining ore reserves, assumptions that were valid at the time of estimation may change when new information becomes available.
Any changes could affect prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
The calculation of the UOP rate of amortisation could be impacted to the extent that actual production in the future is different from current forecast production based on proven and probable mineral reserves.
54 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 These factors could include: changes of proven and probable mineral reserves: the grade of mineral reserves varying signi cantly from time to time: differences between actual commodity prices and commodity price assumptions used in the estimation of mineral reserves: unforeseen operational issues at mine sites: and changes in capital, operating mining, processing and reclamation costs, discount rates and foreign exchange rates possibly adversely affecting the economic viability of mineral reserves.
The majority of other tangible assets are depreciated on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives.
Management reviews the appropriateness of assets useful economic lives at least annually and, again, any changes could affect prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
Impairment of assets The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
In making the assessment for impairment, assets that do not generate independent cash ows are allocated to an appropriate cash generating unit CGU.
The recoverable amount of those assets, or CGU, is measured as the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Management necessarily applies its judgement in allocating assets that do not generate independent cash ows to appropriate CGUs, and also in estimating the timing and value of underlying cash ows within the value in use calculation.
Subsequent changes to the CGU allocation or to the timing of cash ows could impact the carrying value of the respective assets.
Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs Provision is made, based on net present values, for restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs as soon as the obligation arises.
Costs incurred at the start of each project are capitalised and charged to the income statement over the life of the project through depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage are provided at net present value and charged against pro ts as extraction progresses.
Environmental costs are estimated using either the work of external consultants or internal experts.
Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and amortise these estimated costs over the life of the mine.
Retirement bene ts The expected costs of providing pensions and post retirement bene ts under fide ned bene t arrangements relating to employee service during the period are charged to the income statement.
Any actuarial gains and losses, which can arise from differences between expected and actual outcomes or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Assumptions in respect of the expected costs are set after consultation with quali ed actuaries.
While management believes the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would impact the earnings of the Group.
Special items Operating special items are those that management considers, by virtue of their size or incidence, should be disclosed separately to ensure that the financial information also allows an understanding of the underlying performance of the business.
The determination as to which items should be disclosed separately requires a degree of judgement.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 55
