Chief executives operating review 2005 was another year of strong growth for Meggitt.
The group is well-placed to take advantage of the sustained recovery in the civil large jet marketand its aftermarketand respond to continuing healthy demand from the defence industry.
Over all, with acquisitions complementing strong organic growth and the Dunlop integration performing in line with expectations, Meggitt turned in another set of excellent results.
Results Aerospace Development of the engine Underlying profit before tax Turnover increased 36% to 458.6 monitoring units EMUs for the increased by 29% to 116.3 million million 2004: 336.9 million.
General Electric GEnx and the Rolls- 2004: 90.3 million on turnover up Underlying operating profit Royce Trent 1000 engines for the 29% to 616.3 million 2004: 476.6 increased 37% to 107.2 million Boeing 787 aircraft progressed well.
Profit for the year increased 2004: 78.4 million.
Excluding The EMUs on the GP7200 and the by 26% to 66.2 million 2004: 52.5 the impact of acquisitions and at Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engines for million.
This excellent performance, constant exchange rates, turnover the A380 aircraft were certified coupled with another year of strong increased by 8% and underlying during 2005, with production cash generation, has led to an operating profit by 10%.
The advanced increase in the final dividend of aerospace order book at December airborne vibration monitor AAVM 10% to 5.3 pence.
2005 was 33% up on December 2004 for the Boeing 737, a joint Meggitt, at constant exchange rates.
Boeing and CFMI programme, has now been introduced into airline Acquisitions revenue service.
Providing early Good organic growth arising from Meggitt continued to focus its information on potential engine activities on aerospace, defence the civil aerospace recovery and bearing deterioration, several and high performance sensors.
on-going healthy demand from airlines are fitting the AAVM into new We acquired Avery Hardoll for 8.4 aircraft and two major US airlines the military markets million.
Located in the UK, this are to retrofit their entire 737 fleet.
business provides products for the aerospace ground fuelling market, Meggitts airborne fire detection complementing products in our Meggitts aerospace businesses, business continued its excellent existing US controls business.
which account for 74% of group progress with several contract wins turnover and 82% of underlying including the fire detection system The acquisition of Sensorex and operating profit, continued their for the A400M military transport ECET in France for 7.1 million, excellent performance.
This aircraft, which comprises a central which design and manufacture reflected good organic growth computer and fire detectors for the high performance sensors for the arising from the civil aerospace engines, main landing gear and aerospace market, increased our recovery, on-going healthy demand auxiliary power unit.
presence on major Airbus aircraft from the military markets and the from the A380 to several military Embraer will incorporate Meggitts impact of acquisitions.
engine fire detection systems and Major orders in 2005 included cargo smoke detection products into The group received a net payment the second tranche of Eurofighter its very light and light jets.
of 16 million for the 2004 acquisition Typhoon business amounting to of Dunlop.
This related primarily Meggitts fluid dynamics businesses 80 million for wheels, brakes to consideration held in escrow continued to secure multiple and braking systems, air data pending resolution of certain ongoing programme awards.
The new transducers, crash survivable commercial issues and to normal engineering programmes of 2006, memory and engine optical asset adjustments on finalisation which should generate substantial pyrometers.
aftermarket demand, include valves 14 Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 for GEs GEnx engine and for the of Gulfstream and Raytheon Buncefield fuel distribution depot, Hispano-Suiza SAM146 engine business jets and the success of the Hemel Hempstead on 11 December that will power the future Russian ATR72 aircraft have led to increased 2005.
Despite this, a superb regional jets family: anti-icing valves braking system sales, despite a response from the workforce and for the BR710 large jet engines used small reduction in the flying hours of robust business continuity plans in Bombardiers Global Express and the BAE 146 aircraft, many of which enabled limited production to the Gulfstream V aircraft: air oil have been temporarily grounded recommence in early January 2006. separators for Pratt & Whitney as a result of liquidity issues faced Production will move to a smaller Canadas 610, 615 and 617 general by several major US airlines.
New local facility and other group aviation engine range: and Hamilton orders came from the second factories and should be completed Sundstrand for the F135, F136 and tranche of the Eurofighter Typhoon by mid-2006, with a 5 million Trent 1000 engines.
programme and Raytheon selected provision included within 2005 Meggitt to supply wheels, brakes operating exceptional costs.
Following the integration of recent and the braking system for the new acquisitions, Meggitt is developing Hawker 750 and 900 aircraft.
a strong capability in thermal Defence systems management with orders for antiMeggitts progress in wheel and Turnover increased 25% to 86.0 ice and high pressure environmental brake repair and overhaul was million 2004: 68.9 million.
control systems for the Javelin very evidenced by new support Underlying operating profit light jet and military trainer aircraft management contracts for the UK increased by 19% to 14.7 million engine: the environmental control MoDs 19 VC10 aircraft and a five- 2004: 12.3 million.
Excluding the system ducting for Alenia year support management contract impact of 2004 acquisitions and at Aeronauticas ATR 42 and ATR 72 for the Britannia and Monarch fleets.
constant exchange rates, turnover aircraft, a growing family of twin We expanded Dunlops repair facility increased by 19% and underlying turboprop, short-haul regional in Singapore to support all Meggitt operating profit by 18%.
The order airliners: and in January 2006, products used by the regions rapidly book at December 2005 was 17% the engine anti-ice system for the expanding airline industry.
up on December 2004 at constant Embraer Phenom 100 very light jet.
A strong capability in thermal Our polymers businesses won Meggitts defence systems business numerous orders from Boeing, made excellent progress in 2005, management with orders for GE, Gulfstream, Hawker and others.
maintaining its strong position in anti-ice and high pressure We completed the first-stage weapon training systems, environmental controls systems consolidation of the UK polymers ammunition handling, environmental businesses, successfully transferring control systems for military use and Meggitts business in Slough to launch and recovery systems for Dunlop facilities in the Midlands.
The Avica UK factory, which countermeasures.
During 2006, we are expanding manufactures metallic ducting parts Weapon training systems grew those facilities to enable further for aircraft environmental control significantly in the year, benefiting consolidation with a local plant.
systems sales 10 million per from the large investments being annum, was severely damaged as The continued rise in the utilisation made in live fire training for armed a result of explosions at the nearby services personnel.
Meggitt won Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 15 Chief executives operating review continued orders on the US Armys ten-year operational capacity in response to US automotive industry.
Margins range modernisation programme, the growing demands of the defence were also affected by continuing digital multiplex ranges and military market.
This consolidation should cost increases in raw materials, operations in urban terrain.
US law be completed in early 2007. particularly copper and silver.
enforcement agencies increased Several new orders were secured their orders for live fire mobile on new automotive platforms and Electronics road ranges.
orders in the last quarter improved Turnover increased 1% to 71.7 on those of the third.
We secured ammunition handling million 2004: 70.8 million.
production contracts for the Stryker Underlying operating profit reduced Investment in a division-wide direct mobile gun replenisher, the Apache by 2.3 million to 8.7 million 2004: sales force in Europe is starting to 12 Pak and Combo Pak and the 11.0 million.
The order book at bear fruit with wins on new missile AC130 Gunship Mk44 magazines.
December 2005 was 26% up on programmes from Diehl in Germany We won new sole source December 2004 at constant and Thales in France.
The division development contracts for the exchange rates due mainly to secured orders for the second Future Combat Systems FCS the receipt of second tranche tranche of Eurofighter Typhoon mounted combat vehicle, positioning Eurofighter Typhoon orders.
covering sensors for engine control Meggitt to win further ammunition and monitoring applications.
handling business on other FCS Broader integrated engineering skills The facility in Xiamen, China vehicle variants.
continues to perform in line with and greater operational capacity for Environmental control system expectations.
The second phase Meggitts defence systems business production on the M1A2 Abrams of product transfers started in tank thermal management system September 2005 with several position is projected to continue for at least sensors from Spain.
A project to the next five years and we started Electronics sales 12% of the group assemble commercial aerospace to develop and produce the vapour total were held back due to weakness speed probes has just begun.
In line cycle cooling system for the C130 in the automotive and test and with our original investment plans, avionics modernisation programme.
measurement markets and two we will have expanded into a second, major medical companies announced adjacent building by the end of 2006, Meggitts countermeasures business 2 their intention to reduce inventory adding another 5,000m of was dominated by customer-funded levels.
However, investment in new manufacturing space.
development programs for next technologies, which continued with generation products.
As they enter significant progress in smart production in late 2006, Meggitt Investing for the future sensing and high temperature should experience strong growth Meggitt continued to invest in sensor development, is expected in this sector.
research and development R & D to generate sales from 2007. to sustain organic growth.
Cash At the end of 2005, Meggitt Defence Our Spanish position sensing spend in 2005 was 30.8 million, Systems announced the merger business saw reduced demand for around 5% of turnover as previous of its three Californian businesses on-board automotive use following years, excluding customer-funded to capitalise on broader integrated the slowdown in the European and R & D at nearly 2% of turnover.
engineering skills and increase 16 Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 Capital expenditure of 19.2 million jet production expected to increase continues to ensure our businesses by 21% in 2006 and 11% in 2007 have the best facilities and and military demand continuing equipment.
In the second half of to look healthy.
2005, the board approved a number Trading in our electronics businesses of major investments to increase is likely to remain soft for at least capacity and productivity including the first half of 2006 as medical new facilities for the aerospace customers continue to destock.
businesses in Basingstoke UK and in Manchester USA when their Capital expenditure continues leases expire: expansion of the aeroengine condition monitoring facility to ensure our businesses have in Fribourg Switzerland : enlargement the best facilities and equipment of the polymers facility in Shepshed UK : and the consolidation of our three Californian defence systems businesses into a local Irvine facility.
Over all, however, the order book is robust, with a 30% increase during Capital expenditure in 2006 is 2005 giving confidence that Meggitt expected to increase to 35 million will deliver further growth in 2006. as a result of these investments, In consequence, the Directors are before returning to around 20 recommending a 10% increase in million thereafter.
Meggitt continues to invest in human resources.
In 2005, we enhanced processes and systems including business and organisational development and IT and compliance management to maintain the impressive growth record achieved over the last three years.
Outlook Meggitt has continued to achieve strong growth in turnover and underlying profit and has, once again, delivered an outstanding cash performance.
Prospects for the civil aerospace market look very good with large Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 17
