Chief Executives operating review: By taking fast, decisive action, we are addressing the challenges of a difficult operating environment and are shaping up to compete as the market becomes even tougher.
Pat ODriscoll Chief Executive 04 Chief Executives operating review Northern Foods plc Business review Frozen As I outlined in our strategic business review in November 2004, The Frozen division delivered 36.1 million continuing operating Northern Foods has considerable strengths.
We have scale as one of profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items and a Britains largest food manufacturers, a reputation for quality products, 10.5 per cent continuing operating margin before goodwill amortisation well-invested assets and skilled people.
We have leading market and exceptional items.
This was despite a 2.2 per cent decrease positions in key growth categories together with strong own label in continuing sales, mainly due to business losses resulting from market shares and leading brands.
With our GET FIT programme Morrisons acquisition of Safeway.
Key to these results was rigorous we are now transforming the company to create an integrated cost control and a tight operational focus.
The launch of premium One Northern business.
We have embarked on a three-year La Bottega pizzas helped maintain Goodfellas market leadership.
programme to make Northern Foods the supplier of choice to UK and Irish retailers in added value convenience foods.
Chilled The Chilled division produced a disappointing performance with Market conditions continuing sales growing by only 2.0 per cent and continuing operating This year we faced tough trading conditions, particularly in the profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items down second half.
I believe that the trading environment will continue 19.2 per cent.
There were good results in products such as sandwiches to be challenging, with sales growth likely to be affected by more and pizzas but other categories, including meal solutions and pastry cautious consumer sentiment, and with retailers competing ever products, failed to meet expectations.
Our two factory closures and harder for market share gains.
new divisional structure were the first steps in addressing these issues.
Sales Business transformation programme update Continuing sales were up 2.0 per cent at 1,416.1 million.
Underlying I am pleased with the progress of our GET FIT programme.
We set clear sales, excluding the impact of currency, acquisitions, divestments three-year objectives for driving sales growth, lowering costs to improve and the 53rd week last year, grew by 2.7 per cent.
Total underlying efficiencies, enhancing our commercial approach and developing growth with our top five retailers was around the same level.
Strong an effective organisation and results are now beginning to appear.
growth with Tesco and Asda was offset by slower growth with other customers.
Jointly with our largest customer, Marks & Spencer, Simplified business structure we have established a more structured, category-focused relationship The reshaping of our business structure has gone to plan.
We have and also had some great success stories with products such as consolidated 15 former operating companies into a more relevant Melting Middles chocolate puddings, a star of their current advertising divisional structure Ambient, Frozen and Chilled.
Other highlights included new own label cake sales with we eliminated a great deal of duplication, removed a layer of Asda, a new hot pies range with Tesco, Taste the Difference salads management and shortened and clarified reporting lines.
for Sainsburys and chilled ready meals for Morrisons.
In brands, the success of the Creations seasonal biscuit range from Foxs New operating board and Goodfellas La Bottega pizza have been notable.
We established an operating board comprising divisional and functional directors in order to blend the business and specialist Operating profit expertise needed to address changing market demands.
In the process Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items we have made new functional appointments in human resources, was down 4.3 per cent at 102.4 million, with continuing businesses supply chain, technical, commercial, marketing and finance.
showing a decline of 2.9 per cent.
An immediate benefit of our business restructure was the more Operating margin focused and streamlined approach to customer management.
Our goal is to increase our continuing operating margin before Different parts of Northern Foods no longer talk to customers in goodwill amortisation and exceptional items to 8.6 per cent by 2007. isolation and the benefits of better customer management are already The operating margin before goodwill amortisation and exceptional evident.
Our new group commercial director will ensure we continue items for continuing operations was 7.2 per cent in 2005.
Satisfactory to improve our approach.
results in Ambient and Frozen were offset by underperformance in Chilled driven by customer and category mix issues, Christmas trading and some inflation under-recovery.
Ambient The Ambient division made good progress with continuing sales up 7.5 per cent and continuing operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items up 19.8 per cent to 31.5 million.
We continued to reap the benefits of last years integration of the Foxs and Elkes biscuit businesses.
Foxs branded products have outperformed the market in all the businesss core sectors, with year-on-year sales growth of 11.1 per cent versus an industry growth rate of 1.0 per cent.
Within the seasonal sector, the redesign of Creations helped Foxs to outperform the market.
Cake performance also improved due to new business wins and greater factory efficiencies.
Analysed in the turnover and segmental analysis Northern Foods plc Chief Executives operating review 05 Factory restructuring completed Looking ahead As we moved to rationalise our manufacturing capacity we announced We have to accelerate the pace of change to meet our strategic two factory closures in September 2004, one at Evesham Foods and targets in an increasingly tough marketplace.
In the coming year one at London Road, Carlisle.
The process of closing these factories we will therefore focus our efforts in two key areas: driving sales took place with no disruption to production, despite occurring at a growth and reducing costs in the supply chain.
time which included the peak Christmas trading period.
The closures have allowed Northern Foods to transfer products to other sites and Sales growth remains critical and we will continue to target the so improve capacity utilisation.
I would like to thank the staff at both category and customer opportunities we identified in the strategic sites, but particularly those in Carlisle who had to cope with major business review.
Constant innovation is also key and the appointment flooding at the same time.
of our group marketing director will help us to accelerate the pace and scope of new product development.
Successful product Manufacturing excellence launches so far this year include a new Count on Us range supporting We continued to improve our manufacturing efficiency, offsetting Marks & Spencers Eat Well proposition.
higher costs for labour, raw materials and utilities through higher productivity, better utilisation of our capacity and better demand The performance of the Chilled business is fundamental to the success planning.
Company-wide performance measures on key areas such of our strategy.
In order to deliver improvement fast, we need as waste and labour utilisation were introduced to all sites and success a streamlined, effective and lower cost organisation in place.
On one site we were able to halve waste levels in just six months.
The lessons learned are being shared across the business.
In May 2005 we therefore integrated our two Chilled business units SAP implementation at all Northern Foods sites and the upgrade into a single Chilled division.
The move, based on a detailed site to MySAP have made it possible to monitor progress, allowing us planning process, will further remove duplication in our structure, to compare manufacturing performance on a like-for-like basis.
lower business costs and help Northern Foods realise its growth potential through more focused customer and consumer insight.
Procurement In order to maximise the impact of the integration, the divisional We made good progress in working to capitalise on our scale as director will be supported by the group supply chain, commercial, an integrated One Northern business.
Our centralised procurement marketing and technical directors.
team was established and made savings through a range of initiatives such as e-auctions, while supplier conferences highlighted further In conclusion, although the year has been tough and results opportunities for improvement.
have suffered, the changes under way are transforming Northern Foods.
Throughout the year our people have maintained their passion In the year ahead we will accelerate the pace by consolidating our for making outstanding food and giving excellent service to our supplier base, using our scale as one of the largest purchasers of food customers.
I do not underestimate the challenges ahead but I believe ingredients in the UK to achieve better terms and better standards our people have the will, determination and the skills to make the of delivery, and improving our overall supply chain efficiency.
This process changes needed for success in a demanding industry.
I am proud of is being led by our newly appointed group procurement director.
their achievements to date and know that they will continue to help Northern Foods realise its potential as we accelerate the pace of People change in 2005 06.
In order to develop a One Northern culture characterised by leadership and accountability, we revised our approach to In closing, I would like to add a note of personal thanks to our retiring performance management and remuneration structure, redesigned Chairman, Peter Blackburn, who has been an enormous strength in our Management Information MI system and introduced recognising the need for change and enabling its delivery.
We all company-wide performance metrics.
We also initiated a leadership wish him every happiness in his retirement.
development and training process to accelerate change in the business and are committed to enhancing our employee communications.
Pat ODriscoll Chief Executive 1 June 2005 06 Chief Executives operating review Northern Foods plc What we said: What weve done: Through a rigorous business review By simplifying our structure, weve we identified the strengths and been able to sharpen our focus and weaknesses of Northern Foods enhance customer relationships We committed to drive sales We launched a range of GET FIT growth, lower costs, improve initiatives to reduce costs and efficiencies, enhance our improve performance commercial approach and develop our capabilities To measure our progress and build accountability we introduced new We set out clear three-year targets business reporting tools and linked for growing our business and remuneration to reward becoming supplier of choice With good progress to date, we will accelerate the pace What of delivery to meet our targets in tough market conditions next?
We will sustain our efforts in managing our cost base and streamlining our organisation whilst staying sharply focused on growing our sales In pursuit of our business ambition we intend to be best in class: with products that excite our customers: world-class supply chain management: and outstanding employees Northern Foods plc Chief Executives operating review 07
