CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW The good results we have delivered this year are particularly pleasing against a backdrop of a less buoyant UK new car market.
We also made excellent progress with our new Pinnacle dealer management system with over 100 implementations in the group during the year.
The integration of CD Bramall was completed during the year and the acquisition finance to buy the shares of approximately 230.0 million, which was put in place at the beginning of 2004, has now been repaid in line with our plan.
We have made a number of acquisitions and greenfield start ups in 2005, most of which occurred in the second half.
Although these have been dilutive overall, they have enabled us to build relationships with manufacturers not already represented.
Summary financial statement m 2005 2004 Revenue 3,284.5 3,168.2 Underlying operating profit 98.8 87.7 Exceptional operating costs 2.9 6.6 Operating profit before other income 95.9 81.1 Other income gain on sale of fixed assets 7.4 18.9 Operating profit 103.3 100.0 Finance costs share of joint venture 39.5 34.6 Profit before tax 63.8 65.4 Earnings per share basic 34.8p 37.1p Earnings per share adjusted 33.4p 30.0p Dividend per share 13.2p 10.2p Underlying operating profit of 98.8 million 2004: 87.7 million less interest of 39.5 million 2004: 34.6 million gives profit before tax and exceptionals of 59.3 million 2004: 53.1 million, an increase of 11.7 per cent.
Trading environment The UK market experienced a five per cent fall in new car registrations with the total market standing at just above 2.4 million cars.
The private retail market suffered the most, down 10 per cent, reflecting the weaker economy.
Sales to the lower margin fleet and business sectors were down just 0.3 per cent.
The strong demand seen in recent years for commercial vehicles also tailed off with an overall reduction in units registered of one per cent.
The reduction was entirely in the light commercial van sector which accounts for over 80 per cent of registrations in this market.
Registrations of trucks rose 4.5 per cent although this was mostly achieved in the first half of the year.
Overall the US market remained stable with sales of cars and light trucks up by 0.5 per cent to almost 17.0 million.
New car sales were mixed in respect of the range of brands we currently represent in California: Land Rover, Mercury and SAAB improved, whilst Jaguar, Aston Martin and Lincoln sold fewer units.
In Germany the market for the products we sell remained weak.
Jaguar registrations fell almost 20 per cent, Land Rover was broadly static year on year and Aston Martin increased, albeit from a very small base.
The principal activity of our business is the sale and servicing of motor vehicles.
We also operate a number of commercial vehicle dealerships.
Within the business there are distinct areas of activity: new vehicle sales, used vehicle sales, aftersales and support services.
In 2005 new vehicle sales accounted for 30 per cent of gross profit, used car sales for 18 per cent, aftersales 43 per cent and support services 9 per cent.
Motor vehicle retail business We have businesses in three of the largest car markets: the UK, the USA and Germany.
The business in the UK accounted for 94.7 per cent of our underlying operating profits in 2005.
4 CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Evans Halshaw Ford St Albans part of our largest UK franchise UK We own and operate 275 franchised dealers from 219 sites in the UK.
This includes 25 commercial vehicle dealerships.
We have a national network of dealerships from Scotland to the south coast of England with a diverse portfolio of franchises consisting of specialist, luxury, volume and commercial vehicles.
During the year we undertook a rebranding of the UK dealerships.
Our volume dealerships have been branded as Evans Halshaw whilst the premium marques are now trading under the name Stratstone.
We believe that there are benefits in terms of marketing and advertising in having two distinct brands, each of which has sufficient scale throughout the UK.
This enables marketing and advertising expenditure to be more specifically targeted and facilitates the use of other media such as television which has previously not been cost effective.
Our premium brands include Aston Martin, BMW, Ferrari, Jaguar, Land Rover, Maserati, Mercedes-Benz, Mini, Porsche, SAAB and Volvo.
In 2005 we have added Cadillac, Honda and Alfa Romeo franchises.
In total, specialist and luxury franchises represent 47 per cent of our portfolio.
The principal volume franchises are Ford and Vauxhall.
We also represent Peugeot, Citron, Hyundai and Nissan.
During the year we added Kia and Fiat to the volume franchises we represent.
Commercial vehicle franchises include DAF, Iveco, LDV and MAN-ERF.
We also have five sites selling Harley-Davidson and Japanese motorcycles.
After eliminating the impact of the acquisitions and disposals we have made over the last 24 months, revenue on a like for like basis in the UK is down 2.7 per cent, which is broadly in line with the reduction in UK new car sales.
The underlying operating margin on existing businesses has moved ahead to 2.9 per cent compared to 2.7 per cent in 2004.
The underlying operating profit includes an operating loss of 2.3 million versus a profit of 2.0 million for 2004 in respect of our MG Rover business.
Excluding the MG Rover losses, our existing dealerships underlying operating margin would have been 3.0 per cent.
All our MG Rover sites have now either been closed, with a view to disposing of the property, or refranchised where we expect the contribution from these sites to be positive in 2006.
Of the premium brands, Aston Martin, Jaguar and Porsche again had a good year.
We improved results in our Mercedes-Benz group which had been disrupted in the previous year due to a number of site relocations.
Land Rover was up on the previous year with the introduction of the Range Rover Sport which has proved to be very popular in the 4x4 sector.
We opened eight Cadillac sites during the year.
Although the volume of Cadillac sales has been low in 2005 we anticipate that the new small Cadillac, which arrives this year, will help establish the brand and move our Cadillac business towards break even by the end of the year.
We now operate 12 sales points for the brand and anticipate this to grow to 18 by the end of this year.
Other premium brand franchise points acquired were Alfa Romeo, Honda, Jaguar, Lotus, SAAB and Volvo.
Sales volumes in our Ford business were down year on year.
In addition, margins have been squeezed due to the lower demand and the over supply situation in the national network for the majority of the year.
Levels of stocks have now come down and this we believe will help improve returns for us in this brand in 2006.
During the year we disposed of Ford dealerships in Exeter and Torquay, which lost 0.3 million in the first eight months of the year.
Similar to Ford, the volume of sales for Vauxhall declined year on year, although not to the same extent.
Margins in this business were also under pressure in the year.
Of our other volume brands we were pleased with the performance of our Peugeot dealerships which improved profits against the prior year.
We opened or acquired 20 volume franchises in the year.
These represented Citron, Fiat, Hyundai, Kia and Vauxhall and in a number of cases have replaced the MG Rover sales points.
The new businesses, both premium and volume, contributed revenue of 58.2 million with an operating loss of 2.1 million.
The loss reflects the start up nature of many of the additions plus they predominantly came on stream towards the end of the second half of the year when new car sales are at their lowest.
We remain one of the biggest commercial vehicle retailers in the UK and, against the background of another strong market, we saw the performance of this group move forward in the year with sales ahead of the previous year on a like for like basis.
In June we sold our Mercedes-Benz trucks business which prior to sale made operating profits of 1.4 million 2004: 2.3 million.
Prior to disposal or closure, Exeter and Torquay Ford, Mercedes-Benz trucks and MG Rover contributed revenue of 65.4 million and an operating profit of 0.4 million.
USA We have again moved the profitability of our US business forward compared to the prior year.
In addition to the cost savings we made in 2004, we have had a more successful year with Land Rover.
Range Rover and Range Rover Sport models continue to be very popular in the southern California market.
6 CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED m Revenue Gross profit Gross margin Underlying Underlying % operating operating profit margin % Existing 196.2 31.3 15.9 7.7 3.9 Acquired 21.3 2.3 10.8 0.7 3.3 Total 2005 217.5 33.6 15.4 7.0 3.2 Total 2004 170.0 28.9 17.0 6.1 3.6 Revenue has increased 26.2 million at our existing dealers with Land Rover sales in Los Angeles, Newport Beach and Mission Viejo making the biggest contribution.
Gross margins have fallen, mainly due to a number of large fleet deals for Lincoln Mercury products which were dilutive and also due to weaker demand for Jaguar products.
The underlying operating margin has improved to 3.9 per cent.
Two SAAB dealerships were acquired in January 2005.
These contributed revenue of 21.3 million and an operating loss of 0.7 million.
We now operate twelve franchises from nine locations in southern California.
The portfolio of brands consists of Jaguar, Land Rover, Aston Martin, SAAB, Lincoln and Mercury.
Whilst the portfolio remains concentrated on a few brands, we are continuing with our plan to introduce other franchises as we move the business forward.
Germany The performance of our German businesses continues to be disappointing.
In total we operate five sites in Munich and Frankfurt with ten franchises: five Jaguar, three Land Rover and two Aston Martin.
In comparative terms it is a small part of the group contributing just over one per cent of revenue and an underlying operating loss of 1.8 million 2004: loss of 2.1 million.
Support services We provide a broad range of support services both to the Pendragon group and to outside customers.
The services are provided by a number of specialist businesses, which principally comprise: Contract hire and leasing Computer software solutions Wholesale parts distribution Shared services Loxley House m Revenue Gross profit Gross margin Underlying Underlying % operating operating profit margin % Total 2005 143.5 41.6 29.0 13.6 9.5 Total 2004 144.9 36.3 25.0 13.4 9.2 Contract hire and leasing Our contract hire and leasing business made an operating profit of 6.1 million 2004: 6.0 million.
The total fleet size at the year end was eleven thousand vehicles compared to twelve thousand at the end of 2004.
We have combined the back office functions of Bramall Contracts and Pendragon Contracts which will lead to improved efficiency in the operation of our contract hire and leasing business.
Pinewood Technologies Pinewood is responsible for the computer and telecoms network for the group as well as providing services to third party customers.
The focus of activity in the year for Pinewood has, like last year, been the development, sale and installation of the new dealer management system, Pinnacle.
We now have 128 of our dealerships on the new Pinnacle system and plan to have a further 72 on the system by the end of this year.
Demand from external customers has continued to grow.
Also within Pinewood Technologies is CFC, which provides software solutions for the management of small fleets, contract hire and workshops.
7 Shared services During the year we continued to expand the call centre activities.
Customer prospecting services for our Citron and SAAB businesses were introduced and we centralised the warranty claims handling function for our BMW business.
We started to incorporate our Mercedes-Benz businesses into the call centre model towards the end of the year and will complete this in the first half of 2006.
Team members Each year we recognise the contribution of our team members towards the success of the business.
The winners, pictured above of the 2005 awards were, Mike Dawkins, Matthew Cullen, Mark Stephen, Tony Adams, Lee Cunliffe, Graham Worth, John Dalton, Michael Swain, Paul Tattersall, Jonathan Burrows, Ian Harrison and Tony Trueman.
Outlook Last year we achieved our integration goals with CD Bramall and repaid the debt we incurred to buy that business and dealt with the closure of MG Rover.
The new car market in the UK was less buoyant than the previous year and therefore profits more difficult to achieve.
January 2006 new car registrations in the UK were down by 13.3 per cent compared to 2005.
Some of the January fall can be attributed to the higher than normal registrations of diesel cars in December 2005.
Industry forecasts are for a UK car market down just under three per cent for the whole of this year and a decline of five per cent would be our current view.
We are looking forward to a year of new challenges and believe that we can take the business forward in 2006 and retain our position as the clear leader in the industry.
Trevor Finn Chief Executive 9 February 2006 8 Evans Halshaw Vauxhall St Albans
