Operating review Engineering & Construction In terms of project execution, there were a number of highlights during 2005.
These included the completion of the BTC pipeline and pumping stations in Georgia and Azerbaijan: entering the final stages, ahead of schedule, of engineering and procurement for the three process plants for the Kashagan Field Development project in Kazakhstan: the mechanical completion of the Crescent Gas Plant in the UAE: and entering the final phase of a major upgrade project for Qatar Petroleum.
These achievements have been accomplished while maintaining a good HSE record.
New order intake during the year was in excess of US$2.1 billion 2004: US$0.7 billion, with major awards in Oman, Kuwait, Russia and Kazakhstan, and smaller awards in the UKCS, Africa and the UAE.
In addition to a buoyant market that is yielding significant opportunities, our success in securing new business has been achieved through Petrofacs reputation for execution excellence.
Our focus on Project Development Services has achieved strong growth during the year, underpinned by the award of several PMC type contracts and a larger flow of consultancy work and studies.
It is pleasing to note that these recent successes have created opportunities for major contracts in our Operations Services division Engineering & Construction enjoyed a year of for both Facilities Management and Training services.
substantial growth, successful project execution and The Engineering & Construction divisions strategic focus is on a record level of new orders.
customers and regions that will create a platform for sustained growth through significant medium and long-term investment Our staff numbers increased by one-third in 2005 to approximately programmes.
In particular, we are well placed for future phases and 2,400 personnel, with the majority of this growth in our Mumbai and expansion opportunities on our current projects in Oman and the Woking offices, where we have now achieved critical mass to carry north Caspian region.
The challenges ahead remain in finding and out large-scale projects.
Our Woking office has broadened its service developing the resources required to support growth.
offering to include project management contracts PMC and, selectively, brownfield and greenfield engineering, procurement and The outlook in our core regional markets of the UKCS, Middle East, construction EPC execution.
Our Mumbai office now offers a truly Africa and Former Soviet Union is expected to remain positive world-class engineering capability that we expect to continue to grow through 2006.
Our main focus will be to maintain our track record of through 2006. safe, high quality and cost effective project development and execution and continue to meet our customers expectations.
While there is increasing competition for experienced engineers in our sector, we strive to ensure that we attract and retain the best talent and reward and incentivise our employees appropriately while maintaining a competitive cost structure.
In addition, Petrofac has continued its focus on graduate recruitment with great success.
There is no doubt that the future of our business growth and further success will depend on successfully attracting first-rate, motivated young engineers.
Maroun Semaan Chief Executive Engineering & Construction 81% Revenue 66% 187% Net profit Backlog 10 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 From its three principal operating centres Sharjah UAE, Mumbai Ministry of Oil & Gas MOG, Kauther Gas Plant, Oman India, and Woking UK Petrofacs Engineering & Construction division provides both front-end services during project During July 2005, Petrofac secured a contract with the Sultanate of development Project Development Services and project Omans MOG to build a new gas plant in the Kauther field in north implementation capability by way of comprehensive engineering, Oman at a value over US$200 million.
The Kauther field was procurement and construction contracting services EPC Services.
discovered by PDO in 2001 and is being developed and operated by PDO on behalf of MOG.
The single-train plant will recover valuable Project Development Services cover concept, feasibility and gas and condensate reserves and will have a capacity of 3 commerciality studies together with a full front-end engineering and 20 million m d. design FEED capability.
This capability includes feasibility and planning, consultancy, design and engineering, project services and Petrofacs role in the project will draw on its capability from both the cost estimating.
Engineering & Construction and Operations Services divisions, as Petrofac is responsible for engineering, procurement and EPC Services encompass the detailed engineering, procurement, construction and operating the plant for an initial one-year period construction, commissioning and start-up phases of the projects.
More specifically, EPC Services include extended basic and detailed engineering, procurement, inspection, testing, expediting, transport Both the Harweel and Kauther projects will be executed in and clearance of equipment and materials, installation and conjunction with Petrofacs long-term in-country construction partner, construction on site, pre-commissioning, commissioning, Galfar, a leading Omani engineering and construction company.
The performance testing and start-up services and full project award of these contracts represents Petrofacs return to Oman, documentation.
where in 1994, the group successfully completed the North Oman Crude Stabilisation project for PDO with Galfar.
The divisions geographic focus is in areas where there is expected to be sustained high levels of capital investment over the medium to Kuwait Oil Company KOC, Facilities Upgrade, Kuwait long-term, predominantly the Middle East, Africa, and the Former Soviet Union.
The division will also continue to focus on the mature, Following the successful upgrade of an oil gathering centre GC-23 but core, market of the UKCS.
and the 2004 award for the replacement of the north Kuwait crude oil During 2005, the Engineering & Construction division undertook work export system, which at the end of 2005 was in its final stages, KOC and Petrofac have extended their relationship with the award of a in countries including Kazakhstan, Qatar, UAE, Kuwait, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Iran, Oman, Russia and the UK.
US$680 million facilities upgrade contract.
A number of new EPC Services projects were awarded and Under the contract, Petrofac is tasked with modernising facilities at commenced during 2005: nine locations, including seven oil gathering centres and two gas booster stations.
The project is key to KOCs future operations, which Petroleum Development Oman PDO, Harweel Cluster aim to improve the performance of the facilities and increase the Development, Oman state-owned oil companys oil production.
In late 2005, Petrofac secured a large lump-sum turnkey project with The two year contract will be executed through the divisions base in the award of a contract by PDO for the second phase of the Harweel Sharjah and a project office in Kuwait and is scheduled for completion Cluster Development in southern Oman.
The contract, worth close to in 2007.
US$1 billion, will be executed over three years.
The scope of the contract includes a new oil & gas processing station, associated facilities with a capacity of 10,000 cubic metres 3 3 per day m d of oil production, facilities for 5 million m d gas injection into the Zalzala oilfield and modifications to the existing Harweel processing station.
PDO has the option to extend the scope to cover an additional 3 10 million m d gas injection facilities into the Sakhiya oilfield, additional gathering facilities and expansion of the Harweel oil 3 processing facilities to 20,000 m d. Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 11 Operating review Engineering & Construction continued The award of the Harweel Cluster Development, Kauther Gas Plant The complexity of the project resulted in extensive delays in and KOC Facilities Upgrade contracts build upon Petrofacs respect of which the joint venture raised significant claims for cost relationships with the regions national oil companies and overruns.
Further details of the claims are set out in the demonstrate the groups ability to leverage from its strong regional Financial review.
Furthermore, these awards demonstrate our customers confidence in Petrofacs ability to deliver large-scale EPC projects.
Other significant EPC Services contracts undertaken during the year included: AGIP KCO, Kashagan, Kazakhstan During 2005, Petrofac progressed to the final stages of the three engineering and procurement packages for AGIP KCO and its partners, for the onshore oil, gas and sulphur processing units for the Kashagan field in Kazakhstan.
In January 2006, Petrofacs role on the Kashagan project was extended with the award of a further contract with AGIP KCO and its partners for the construction management of the onshore facilities of the first phase of the Kashagan development.
The scope includes the main works contract oil, gas and sulphur processing units, power Qatar Petroleum QP, Flare Mitigation, Qatar generation and utilities, tanks and offsite facilities, industrial buildings, initial civil works and pipe rack erection contracts.
Petrofac has entered the final phase of the US$173 million contract for engineering, procurement, installation and commissioning at QPs Mesaieed natural gas liquids complex.
Commissioning is expected to be completed in early 2006.
BP, BTC SCP Pipelines and Facilities, Azerbaijan and Georgia Petrofac, together with joint venture partner Amec-Spie, completed construction of the 248km Georgia stretch of the BTC pipeline, as well as the associated pumping and metering stations in Georgia and Azerbaijan.
The challenging project, which took more than three years to complete, and was valued at approximately US$800 million, covered a route that climbed to a highpoint of 2,500 metres above sea level and traversed 16 rivers and 20 roads.
The project also includes the SCP pipeline and facilities which at the end of the year are at an advanced stage of completion.
12 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 Crescent Petroleum, Gas Processing Facility, Sharjah Lundin, Oudna Field Development, Tunisia In late 2005, Petrofac substantially completed the US$82 million In September 2005, Petrofac and Lundin extended their relationship contract for Crescent Petroleum in Sharjah, UAE on time and within with the award of two further contracts for the development of the budget.
Petrofac provided engineering, procurement and Oudna field, located approximately 80km off the coast of north construction services for the new gas processing facility on a eastern Tunisia.
The plant includes an onshore gas receiving and processing facility, two gas sweetening trains, a sulphur Petrofac is providing engineering, procurement and project recovery plant and associated utilities and infrastructure.
management services during the drilling and facilities development phases which are scheduled to last until October 2006.
In addition to monitoring and reporting on all drilling-related project costs, Petrofac is also responsible for the engineering, procurement and project management of all subsea hardware and process, vessel and mooring system modifications required to convert the Ikdam floating, production, storage and offloading FPSO vessel and install it for service on the Oudna field.
Key Project Development Services undertaken during 2005 included: BG, Hasdrubal Field Development, Tunisia In late 2005, Petrofac was awarded a contract to carry out FEED work for both the onshore and offshore elements of BG Tunisias Hasdrubal field development.
With conceptual and pre-FEED work for the offshore and onshore TNK-BP, Kovykta Field Development, Russia facilities already completed by Petrofac from its Woking office, the plan is to develop the field with a normally unmanned installation and In 2004, Petrofac was awarded and completed a FEED study for produce hydrocarbons through a new multiphase export pipeline to Rospan, a subsidiary of TNK-BP, in relation to their gas and onshore processing facilities that will be constructed adjacent to the condensate field in Western Siberia.
During 2005, further engineering existing BG Tunisia Hannibal plant.
services were provided in relation to safety and integrity upgrades for the gas plant.
Once in operation the Hasdrubal onshore facilities will export gas to the Tunisian gas grid and condensate to a storage facility along the In December 2005, Petrofac was awarded two further contracts with coast at La Skhira via a newly constructed pipeline.
The facilities will subsidiaries of TNK-BP.
These contracts are in connection with the also produce separate liquid propane and butane products, making development of the Kovykta gas and condensate field in East Siberia.
the very most of the value of the hydrocarbon fluids being extracted The contracts run for three years and are worth over US$60 million.
The first contract, awarded by RUSSIA Petroleum, will see Petrofac provide project management services for the engineering, 3 procurement and construction of new 7 million m d gas production facilities and condensate loading system.
Under the second contract, with the East Siberian Gas Company, Petrofac will provide project management services for the design and construction of the main gas pipeline which will provide gas to local consumers in the Irkutsk region.
The 645km pipeline will extend from the processing facilities at Kovykta to the regions capital, Irkutsk, with first gas scheduled to be delivered to consumers towards the end of 2006.
The total investment being made which is under Petrofacs project management amounts to approximately US$1.1 billion.
Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 13 Demonstrating strategy in action The acquisition of Rubicon Response to utilise the expertise of Rubicon A key initiative has been the creation of demonstrates Petrofacs ongoing Response to maintain and improve the North Seas first integrated commitment to identify, acquire, upon existing high safety standards Emergency Response Service Centre integrate and develop complementary within the group.
ERSC in Aberdeen, Scotland, businesses.
In identifying the synergies underpinning the importance that the Rubicon Response is now fully integrated with this specialist emergency response group places on safety and the proactive within Petrofac Training and is the and crisis management provider, and approach it takes in order to address specialist emergency response and crisis through the subsequent acquisition, safety issues in the oil & gas industry.
management arm of the Petrofac group.
Petrofac enhanced its training and consultancy capability, and has been able 14 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 Rubicon Response Petrofac enhanced its training and consultancy capability with the acquisition of emergency response and crisis management specialist, Rubicon Response in January 2005.
A division of Petrofac Training, Rubicon The facility is held at a constant state of Response has since pioneered the readiness, allowing response to any type development of the North Seas first of incident at any time.
Out of hours it could integrated Emergency Response Service normally take 40 60 minutes to mobilise Centre ERSC, providing multiple operators an emergency response team, but with a with access to a dedicated professional 24 7 operation, the on-duty Emergency emergency management service.
Response Operator ensures that the ERSC responds immediately.
The strategic location of the facility enables the team from Rubicon Response to work closely with the emergency services, industry regulators and other agencies to provide an efficient and swift response service.
1 250 24 7 35 integrated Emergency Response responders trained to use operation with a constant state assets in the North Sea can the facility Service Centre co-located with of readiness be supported the Marine Coastguard Agency and Oil Spill Response services Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 15 Operating review Operations Services maintenance services contract for KOC in Kuwait, our largest international contract so far.
These projects demonstrate Petrofacs ability to mobilise rapidly and to execute large-scale operations and maintenance projects, both in the UK and internationally, at a time when the industry is facing a shortage of skilled people.
Sustained high oil prices had mixed effects on the business.
Our specialist manpower services and survival training businesses saw particular benefit from these economic conditions.
However, the price environment led to something of a hiatus in mature UK field asset trading.
It has typically been in periods of increased asset trading activity that Petrofac has been able to secure service operator contracts with new entrant independent oil companies.
During the year, major oil companies largely postponed asset divestment programmes due to improved economic viability and potentially reflecting a relative shortage of available reserve replacement opportunities.
During the year, we saw the ownership of two of our clients change.
Paladin Resources was acquired by Talisman Energy and Kerr-McGees UK oil & gas assets were acquired by Maersk Oil.
In Operations Services had a successful 2005, aided both cases, we continue to work on the same assets for the new owners, although, with regard to the Montrose & Arbroath facilities, by a buoyant core market, the UKCS, driven by now owned by Talisman Energy, in line with their established sustained high oil prices.
operating strategy, we expect to transition duty holder responsibility during the course of this year.
Such events require Petrofac to be Overall, key contracts were renewed, competence was extended, agile and responsive to changing customers needs but they also both organically and through acquisition, major projects were create opportunities to demonstrate our capabilities to new mobilised and significant new business was secured.
All of these customers of scale.
achievements were accomplished while maintaining high safety standards.
Petrofac Facilities Management supported national oil companies NOCs and their subsidiaries, directly and in consortia, in Iran, Key contract renewals included five year operations support contracts Sudan, and Kuwait, while Petrofac Training continued to expand and with ExxonMobil and CNR, a two year extension to our training service our target markets of NOCs, major oil companies and management solutions contract for Shell, and one year extensions with independents.
Maersk Oil for the Gryphon, Janice and Global Producer III installation operations support contract and with Sea Production for the duty Petrofac Training acquired Rubicon Response, a specialist provider of holder contract on Talisman Energys Galley field.
emergency response and crisis management solutions, in January 2005.
This acquisition positioned Petrofac as a world leader in the A number of significant new contract awards were secured during the provision of this specialised capability and is an excellent fit with our year including the five year Marathon engineering, construction, overall service offering.
operations and maintenance contract won in competitive tender and now being delivered in conjunction with our Engineering & We are confident in the growth potential of our businesses as we Construction division.
We also extended our relationship with Tullow continue to develop our capabilities and project them internationally.
Oil, taking responsibility for the Schooner & Ketch and Horne & Wren facilities.
The year also saw excellent progress in project execution.
We successfully mobilised two major projects, the Heather & Thistle service operator contract for Lundin Petroleum and the Robin Pinchbeck Chief Executive Operations Services 38% Revenue 62% 25% 1 Net profit Backlog 1 on a constant currency basis 16 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac Facilities Management ExxonMobil, Operations and Maintenance contract Petrofac Facilities Management is focused on growing its operational coverage of assets in the UK sector of the North Sea and in Effective May 2005, Petrofac was awarded a five year contract extension with ExxonMobil.
The extension is for the provision of developing operations support, maintenance and facilities management opportunities worldwide.
offshore personnel to the Beryl Alpha and Bravo facilities, which have been supported by Petrofac since 1989.
Europe Petrofac Facilities Management works in the UKCS with global integrated oil companies and both large international and regional independents.
Our customers include BP, ExxonMobil, Total, BG, BHP Billiton, Marathon, Maersk Oil, CNR, Talisman Energy, Lundin Petroleum, Tullow Oil and Venture Production.
In total, Petrofac either operates or provides support services to more than thirty platforms in the UK oil & gas sector operating on more than twenty fields with production of around 360,000 bpd of oil and approximately 72 million 3 m d of gas.
This production level equates to approximately 810,000 bpd of oil equivalent and represents around 25% of current UK production.
2005 was a successful year for major contract awards and renewals: Lundin, Service Operator contract In January 2005, Petrofac secured its fifth life-of-field service operator contract in the UK with Lundin Petroleum.
Lundin Petroleums Heather and Thistle assets were successfully transitioned by Petrofac in the second quarter of 2005.
Petrofac is responsible, as facilities manager and safety case duty holder, for the fields production and CNR International CNR, Maintenance and maintenance operations on a life-of-field basis.
Services contract Marathon, Engineering, Construction, Operations Petrofac was awarded a contract with CNR to provide operations and Maintenance contract support services for four fixed installations in the UKCS comprising the Ninian and Murchison fields where Petrofac has provided services The award of this contract covers the provision of engineering, since the mid 1990s.
CNR acquired the assets from Kerr-McGee and construction, operations and maintenance ECOM services for the became operator of the fixed installations in December 2002.
The Brae field UKCS and engineering and construction services for the contract, which has an estimated value of US$35 million, will Central Africa Business unit Equatorial Guinea and Gabon, over an commence in early 2006, when Petrofacs existing contract ends, initial five year period.
with an initial term of five years but with the intent of continuing for the life of the assets.
The execution of this contract will bring together the skill sets from the Engineering & Construction and Operations Services divisions of Petrofac.
Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 17 Operating review Operations Services continued Maersk Oil, Operations and Maintenance contract Tullow Oil, Service Operator contract scope extension In late 2005, following its acquisition of Kerr-McGees UK assets, During the year, Tullow Oil and Petrofac agreed to expand the scope Maersk Oil awarded Petrofac an extension of the current operations of their existing service operator relationship to include the Schooner support contract for the Gryphon, Janice, and Global Producer III & Ketch platforms and new Horne & Wren assets.
The extension of the original five year contract became are normally unmanned.
effective in January 2006 and runs until late 2006. International 2005 represented a year of both consolidation and expansion for Petrofac Facilities Management internationally.
Contracts in Sudan and Iran ran their first full year, while the award of a five year maintenance contract with KOC provided the basis for significant growth.
KOC, Maintenance Services contract Petrofac secured a US$125 million maintenance contract with KOC to deliver full maintenance services on the North and West areas in Kuwait.
The five year contract was the first performance-based full maintenance services contract within Kuwait to be awarded to an international contractor.
Petrofac provide integrated maintenance management and full maintenance services with the aim of improving equipment availability by providing cost-effective maintenance and associated technical support services.
The contract covers maintenance of 16 facilities comprising oil gathering centres, gas booster stations, gas steam and water Sea Production, Operations and Maintenance contract injection plants, water gathering and pumping stations, gas and crude oil pipelines and well heads.
To facilitate the execution of this In early 2005, Sea Production awarded Petrofac an extension worth contract, Petrofac has established an in-country base including an estimated US$26 million for the provision of operations services office, workshop and warehouse facilities working with Kharafi on board the Northern Producer to July 2006.
National, a leading Kuwaiti contractor, to provide in-country support.
The Northern Producer, a floating production installation located on As part of Petrofacs commitment to developing skills locally, by 2010, the Talisman-operated Galley field, is managed by Petrofac on behalf at least 25% of the workforce will be comprised of Kuwaiti nationals.
Petrofac acts as facilities manager providing operations and maintenance management and safety case duty holder.
Petrofac is also responsible for the onshore and offshore operations team and provides facilities engineering support.
When the project started in 1998, it was forecast to have a lifespan of approximately four years.
Seven years from first production, the field has produced nearly 55 million barrels of oil.
18 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac Training Petrofac Training is focused on providing specialist safety, operations, production and technical training services to the worldwide oil & gas industry.
In January 2005, Petrofac Training expanded its capability through the acquisition of Rubicon Response, a specialist provider of emergency response and crisis management solutions, headquartered in Aberdeen.
Petrofac Training now houses two respected training brands within its comprehensive portfolio of operations, production and technical training services Rubicon Response and RGIT Montrose which focuses on health and safety training in the UK.
The latter performed well in 2005 with the market for offshore survival training being particularly buoyant.
Rubicon Response, now fully integrated into Petrofac Training, serves clients across a wide range of geographies.
In early 2005, Petrofac Training successfully re-secured and expanded an important existing contract with Shell to provide training management solutions.
The two year contract covers management of training for Shells three key European operating centres in the UK, Holland and Norway.
In late 2005, the contract was further extended to cover Ireland.
Internationally, Petrofac Training secured a three year contract to provide safety training, and a training management solution for BP in Sharjah.
In conjunction with joint venture partner TTE International, Petrofac has continued to provide training management, trainers and support staff to BP and third parties at the Caspian Technical Training Centre in Baku, Azerbaijan.
The training centre, near Baku in Azerbaijan, aims to deliver a highly skilled, safe, efficient and motivated national workforce to match the growing needs of the industry in the Caspian region.
During the year, Petrofac provided training and consultancy services to many major oil companies, national oil companies and major service contractor clients in seventeen countries.
In addition to stand-alone opportunities, Petrofac Training is seeing an increasing number of joint opportunities with both the Facilities Management and Engineering & Construction businesses, whose own contracting activities can generate significant training opportunities.
The oil & gas industry faces a critical shortage of key technical and operational skills across the spectrum of activities and across regions: in mature areas the problem is an ageing workforce, while in newer regions, such as the Caspian, the basic skills base still needs to be created.
Petrofac Training is highly focused on the development of national workforces and is therefore presented with worldwide opportunities for growth.
Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 19 Cendor PM304 Petrofacs three divisions combine to provide innovative development solutions.
The Cendor field offshore Peninsular The Resources team has been Malaysia in Block PM304 is being supported by staff from other divisions developed by a Petrofac-led joint of Petrofac with Engineering & operating team with Petronas Construction providing project Carigali under a Production Sharing construction management and the Contract PSC.
Operations Services division managing facilities and operations prior to first oil.
Under the revenue-over-cost PSC, Petrofac bears 100% of the investment The field development plan for this cost and receives revenue from the project was formulated and approved date of first oil to recover that rapidly and an innovative technological investment and also a profit element to solution was developed to execute yield an appropriate return on the the plans.
The Cendor field had been undeveloped until Petrofacs development solution and focused approach were applied.
Demonstrating strategy in action The stake in the undeveloped Cendor field The Resources team are supported in Block PM304 in offshore Peninsular in the execution of this project by Malaysia demonstrates Petrofacs ability to personnel from Petrofacs two other improve revenue and earnings stability divisions, Engineering & Construction and through a diversified and complementary Operations Services, enabling the group to business model.
leverage customer relationships by providing a range of services across the life cycle of an asset.
20 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 30% 3 2006 24.6m the stake that Petrofac has in partners in the development: first oil expected in 2H estimated barrels of proved reserves the Cendor field in Block PM304 Petronas Carigali, Kuwait Foreign in Cendor PM304 Petroleum Exploration Company and PetroVietnam Investment Development Company Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 21 Operating review Resources In late 2005, we reached agreement to acquire Centricas interest in the Hewett field.
However, following the exercise of pre-emption rights by the existing partners, this investment did not proceed.
While this was a disappointment, we continue to seek opportunities to achieve greater alignment with our partners.
As announced in early 2006, we completed the acquisition of an interest in the West Don field, alongside FirstOil and Valiant Petroleum, and the field development plan is currently being prepared.
We also secured a rd 50% interest in the adjoining block in the UKs 23 oil & gas licensing round.
The Energy Infrastructure Solutions group aims to identify and develop brownfield and greenfield opportunities in oil & gas midstream and downstream infrastructure, for example, refineries, pipeline transmission, tolling process plants and utilities.
Typically, these will be structured either as the direct acquisition of an asset or in a turnkey project development structure, including Build Operate Transfer BOT, Build Own Operate Transfer BOOT and Build Own Operate BOO development arrangements.
During the year, we established an alliance with First Reserve, a US private equity firm specialising in the energy industry.
The alliance brings together Petrofac Resources enjoyed another successful year First Reserves financing and transaction structuring expertise, with with an increase in our business development Petrofacs project identification and assessment capabilities, particularly capability allowing access to a greater number of in relation to assets and regions where our Engineering & Construction and Operations Services businesses have experience.
In addition to our development investments, our portfolio comprises In particular, we expanded our presence in Malaysia, bringing South two assets that have been cash flowing for some time: the East Asia into our areas of core focus.
Our existing investments operational performance of the Ohanet gas field in Algeria during the performed well during the year and we made good progress with year was very satisfactory, with a 17% increase in production levels those that are under development.
Furthermore, we expanded the over 2004, while in Kyrgyzstan, our refinery joint venture also investment portfolio with the acquisition of an interest in the West Don performed well through the year.
While we continue to see competition for asset investments, we are Our Upstream group aims to identify and develop opportunities in confident that our experienced business development team and our producing and proved or probable but undeveloped reserves enhanced ability to assess and manage risk through accessing the through, for example, participation in large onshore field wider groups capabilities, should enable us to secure suitable developments, onshore and offshore field developments that major investment opportunities.
oil companies may consider to be marginal, and late life producing assets, particularly those offshore.
The investment in the undeveloped Cendor field offshore Peninsular Malaysia in Block PM304 is an excellent example of this and, following approval of the field development plan early in 2005, the year saw considerable activity on this project with the establishment of the full project team.
Amjad Bseisu First production is currently scheduled for the second half of 2006.
Chief Executive Resources 3% 163% Revenue Net profit 22 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac invests alongside its partners to add value through its Cendor PM304, Malaysia expertise in Engineering & Construction or Operations Services.
Petrofacs optimised facilities solutions can facilitate project viability, During 2004, Petrofac Resources acquired a 30% interest in the manage project risks, and improve alignment.
Petrofac also provides Production Sharing Contract for the undeveloped Cendor field facilities to customers on a fully-financed or BOT BOOT BOO basis.
offshore Peninsular Malaysia in Block PM304.
Proven reserves are estimated at 24.6 million barrels of oil.
Current investment portfolio Petrofac Resources investment portfolio currently comprises The field is being developed by a Petrofac-led, joint operating team interests in the Ohanet gas redevelopment project in Algeria, block with Petronas Carigali.
Other field partners are Kuwait Foreign PM304 of the Cendor field in offshore Peninsular Malaysia, the West Petroleum Exploration Company and PetroVietnam Investment Don, Cragganmore and Elke fields in the UKCS and Kyrgyz Development Company.
Petroleum Company, owner of the only operating refinery in the Kyrgyz Republic.
During 2005, the field development plan FDP was submitted to, and approved by, Petronas.
In accordance with the FDP, contracts were Ohanet, Algeria secured by competitive tender for a mobile operating production unit MOPU and a mobile operating drilling unit MODU.
The MOPU was Petrofac Resources largest investment is in the Ohanet project, sourced from the Gulf of Mexico, and arrived in Malaysia in December Algeria.
Petrofac, in joint venture with BHP Billiton as joint venture 2005, where some additional engineering works were performed.
The operator, Japan Ohanet Oil & Gas Co, and Woodside Energy MODU is available and on standby.
Algeria, has invested in excess of US$100 million for a 10% share in a Risk Service Contract RSC with Sonatrach, Algerias national oil company.
The US$1 billion Ohanet development is located in the Illizi province of Algeria, southeast of Algiers and close to the Libyan border.
Petrofacs Engineering & Construction division carried out the EPC contract for the gas processing facilities at Ohanet in joint venture with ABB Lummus.
The groups Operations Services division was also responsible for part of the on-site commissioning works.
First gas for export began flowing in late 2003.
During 2005, Ohanet 3 produced, on average, approximately 15.5 million m d 2004: 13.5 of gas for export, approximately 28,008 bpd 2004: 23,900 of condensate and approximately 2,227 tonnes per day 2004: 1,800 of liquefied petroleum gas 151,700 bpd of oil equivalent: 2004: 130,000.
Under the terms of the RSC, signed in July 2000, Petrofac and its joint venture partners receive a portion of the monthly liquids production over a target eight year period, up to a defined return on the investment.
Should the defined return not be achieved within eight years, the period can be further extended by three years, and if Kyrgyz Petroleum Company, Kyrgyz Republic necessary, a further one year.
At Petrofacs current base case production profiles, and current oil price forecasts, it is unlikely that Kyrgyz Petroleum Company KPC is engaged in the production and there will be an extension of the repayment period.
refining of crude oil and the marketing and sale of oil products in the Kyrgyz Republic.
KPC is jointly owned by Kyrgyzneftegaz, the stateowned oil & gas company, and Petrofac.
Petrofac has managed KPCs facilities and operations since 1998.
KPC continues to be the only integrated oil refiner and distributor of petroleum products in the country.
The refinery is located in Jalalabat and is now capable of processing all local crude oil production up to 10,000 bpd.
KPC employs around 170 technical specialists and support personnel who, after a major training programme, are now almost entirely Kyrgyz citizens.
During the year the refinery produced an average of 314 bpd of gasoline 2004: 410, 657 bpd of diesel 2004: 554 and 731 bpd of fuel oil 2004: 762.
The steady supply of feedstock remains a challenge and was impacted in the later part of the year by restrictions on the export of crude oil from Kazakhstan.
Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 23 Operating review Resources continued Elke, UKCS Petrofac Resources hold a 100% interest in Block 28 3 in the UKCS, containing the Elke field.
The field was discovered in 2002 by OMV and contains approximately 227 million barrels of heavy oil initially in place.
However, due to the high viscosity of the oil, the field remained undeveloped by OMV and its original partners.
Developing an offshore field with high viscosity oil requires an innovative development scheme and Petrofac is looking to draw on the expertise of its Engineering & Construction and Operations Services divisions with a view to providing an economic FDP.
If successful, the approach may have application to other offshore heavy oil fields.
New business development During 2005, major bid submissions were made for projects in Kuwait, Syria, Algeria, Nigeria and the UK, including joint bid submissions with Cal Dive International for mature offshore oil & gas properties and proven undeveloped reserves in the UKCS.
Other significant developments included: West Don, UKCS Petrofac Resources acquired a 40% interest in Block 211 18a in the UKCS, containing 80% of the undeveloped West Don field.
Petrofac acquired the field together with First Oil and Valiant, each with a 30% interest, from BP and ConocoPhillips.
Petrofac Resources and Valiant both secured a 50% interest in the adjoining Block 211 18c in the rd United Kingdoms 23 oil & gas licensing round.
Petrofac and its partners will draw on the expertise from the rest of the Petrofac group to help successfully develop these interests.
Cragganmore, UKCS First Reserve Petrofac Resources and First Reserve, a US private equity firm Petrofac Resources acquired a 5.58% interest in Block 9 28a Area B specialising in the energy industry, entered into an alliance for in the UKCS in January 2004.
The block contains the Crawford field, midstream and downstream investment opportunities.
The alliance since renamed Cragganmore, which was originally produced by will target opportunities for investing in assets and regions where Hamilton Oil and Gas now BHP Billiton using a converted semiPetrofac already has experience and expertise.
The alliance will share submersible production vessel.
The field, with remaining oil in place risks and rewards and will allow Petrofac Resources to invest in larger estimated to be in excess of 200 million barrels, was abandoned in scale projects.
The alliance will benefit from synergies particularly 1990 when oil prices were low and there were better opportunities to where Petrofac provide Engineering & Construction and Operations use the vessel elsewhere.
The field is being re-mapped using up-to-date data processing and interpretation methods.
A number of development options will be evaluated together with a prospect inventory of additional appraisal targets.
Petrofacs involvement as operator is with a view to services being provided by the groups Engineering & Construction division and ultimately by the Operations Services division.
24 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005
