Operating Review Marketing and Distribution Division Our assets We have sales offices in 21 countries and the capability to distribute products worldwide.
We hold around 400,000 products in stock, available for same day despatch.
Our multiple sales channels paper catalogues, transactional web sites, inbound and outbound The Marketing and Distribution Division call centres, field sales and branch networks comprises five closely related businesses.
provide customers with a choice to suit their Together they represent 88 per cent of the specific needs.
Groups sales and 84 per cent of the Groups operating profit.
Typically, these businesses We offer technical information and support via distribute a wide range of electronic components our technical data sheets, web sites and teams and other maintenance, repair and operations of engineers.
products into private and public sector markets.
We hold supplier franchises for market leading Our businesses are high service, small order product brands and offer ranges of our own distributors.
They buy from a large number of brand products.
Trends in our market suppliers some 3,000 in total, perform the Customers require a variety of product ordering traditional role of managing the physical flow of Our market proposition channels to suit their specific needs, along with goods and, increasingly, add significant value to To our customers, we offer real economic fast and easy access to products and services.
customers and suppliers alike through the benefit and peace of mind: Increasingly they are reducing inventory and management of information flows.
ordering closer to their point of need so reduced stockholding costs through easy requiring reliable supply, late order capability access to a huge range of products in the They serve the lower volume and highly mixed and next day service.
quantities required needs of designers, small scale production units, procurement specialists and maintenance reduced transaction costs through Many large and small manufacturing and repair engineers in industry and the public eProcurement, efficient processes and companies are focusing on their core sector.
In these areas, service is the key supplier reduction processes and streamlining or outsourcing differentiator.
They are not positioned to supply the procurement of their maintenance, repair secure, reliable and rapid supply of products, the high volumes of components that are fed and operations MRO product requirements to which are easy to identify, select and order into mass production processes.
reduce costs of purchasing and manage the technical information and support supply chain more effectively.
We have over 2 million customer contacts who through technical data sheets and our are attracted by a common need for a broad technical helplines The consolidation of electronic component product range, met by our inventory of around manufacturers and reduction in the number of wide choice of sales channels to match 400,000 stocked products, fast and reliable distributors they want to work with is favouring their needs delivery and specialist technical support.
companies like us with high brand recognition supply chain management solutions.
Geographical reach Although the majority of our sales are currently To our suppliers, we represent the most As manufacturing migrates to low cost in the Americas 43 per cent and the UK effective means of reaching a valuable and economies such as China, Mexico and Eastern 39 per cent, we are increasingly a global diverse customer base: Europe and the infrastructure grows in these business.
This year, sales in the rest of Europe countries, the requirement for the MRO effective multi-channel marketing to and Asia Pacific represented 18 per cent of the products we supply will continue to increase in customers they wish to reach Divisions total sales.
We are able to deliver these regions.
However, the requirements of products to anywhere in the world in a market intelligence and feedback researchanddesign, , few days.
and maintenance also continue to create product launches demand for our products and services in our reliable and swift global distribution Most of the markets in which we operate are traditional geographic markets.
highly fragmented and while market shares are product and application related technical relatively small, Newark InOne in the US and European Directives restricting the use of support to their customers.
Farnell InOne in the UK are well known names in certain hazardous substances RoHS and the markets they serve.
Both businesses are imposing obligations in respect of waste leaders in the high service distribution markets electronic and electrical equipment WEEE are for electronic components.
The RoHS Directive prohibits the use of substances such as lead, mercury and cadmium in electronic and electrical products unless specific exemptions apply.
Similar legislation is also pending in a number of states in the US and in China.
Managing within the supply chain, the introduction of compliant products, which in many cases will replace current products, is creating significant demands upon, and opportunities for, suppliers, distributors and customers alike.
16 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Sales strategy our smaller customers and contributed to the BuckHickman InOne has secured a supplier We have a wider choice of channels than many 5.5 per cent growth in the active customer base agreement with RWE Thames Water, providing of our competitors and continue to invest to in these businesses year on year.
them with a tailored eProcurement solution and ensure that we stay ahead of customer needs.
the fulfilment of the BuckHickman InOne local We are increasingly serving larger national and Our customers rely on our ability to supply branch network.
Branch managers have been products quickly and accurately.
Farnell InOne international customers with the combined working very closely with the RWE Thames product and service offer of our major brands.
customer Metropolis AV & FX Ltd were Water sites to assist in the management of their approached by Cartier, the world famous tooling requirements.
The benefits to the We have improved our capabilities in the watchmakers and jewellers, as part of their customer are better management information provision of eProcurement solutions for our 150th anniversary celebrations, to make the and cost control.
We have created clear exterior of their New York store glitter with differentiation in our market through our ability replica tiaras and a giant bow.
Metropolis Newark InOnes five year agreement secured in to link to almost any purchasing or enterprise specialises in the design and installation of 2002 from the General Services Administration resource planning system our customers may audiovisual equipment, lighting and special GSA means the company is eligible to provide have.
The flexibility and robustness of our effects.
Farnell InOne supplied them on time US government agencies with more than solutions has won us valuable and important and in full with the many thousands of light 400,000 products.
Sales to the government agreements with many large companies.
emitting diodes needed to make their design sector grew in the year by 16 per cent.
eProcurement, which enables the automation a reality.
Service to customers of most of the commercial mechanics from the ordering process to invoicing and payment, MCM, an InOne company, continues to We have developed additional services to develop its business through market strengthen our basic proposition, which enable delivers significant customer benefits including: segmentation.
Success has been achieved us to build stronger and deeper relationships reducing the cost of administering and by utilising customer relationship management, with our customers.
processing orders eProcurement solutions and customised shortening the purchasing process web sites.
A major area of concern for design engineers is the speed with which components become reducing errors in ordering Major wins obsolete and the risk of designing these into eliminating rogue purchasing and ensuring We have been selected again by the National new products.
Our ProductWatch service only approved or contracted suppliers are Universities Working Party on Electronic alerts the customer if the components they used Components NUWPEC to be the preferred have specified or are using are scheduled to supplier for the UK higher education sector become obsolete and advises them of a minimising the risk of buying inferior products and research councils.
off-contract agreement covers a new three-year period with increasing transparency of purchasing data.
an anticipated sales value of 20 million over We have developed software and systems that time.
We have retained the agreement which enable us to extend our inventory We have 378 live eProcurement agreements: through two reviews since we first won it in management skills into our customers and eProcurement sales grew by 73 per cent 1999.
The service provides a single point of premises.
Vauxhall outsourced the supply of all year on year and accounted for 6 per cent of ordering for over 250,000 products and the MRO product requirements of its Ellesmere total Division sales by the end of the year.
significantly cuts administration time and Port manufacturing plant to BuckHickman costs, reduces paperwork and assists in the InOne in 2002.
We have established a sales The customer relationship management reduction of rogue purchasing within branch on site, and supply direct to the system, which has now been fully operational participating institutions.
production line through 150 cabinets located in Newark InOne in the US and Farnell InOne in throughout the plant.
the UK for some 18 months has significantly Farnell InOne has won an agreement with strengthened our marketing capabilities.
These Newark InOne has expanded its technical Robert Bosch GmbH for the supply of have helped increase catalogue distribution, electronic and electromechanical components support capability.
It now has a team of stimulate customer recruitment and drive sales engineers able to provide design customers to all of Boschs European sites.
Targeted telemarketing campaigns to Bosch include an online eProcurement with expert product and application-related helped us stimulate growth in sales amongst assistance.
solution to increase purchasing control, as well as supplier reduction.
Bosch purchasers have Farnell InOne has developed a dedicated access to a specifically tailored product range of web site to assist customers in understanding 80,000 electronic and electromechanical the impact of the RoHS and WEEE legislation.
Monthly updates have been emailed to the BuckHickman InOne has won a contract to 85,000 customers who receive our regular news alert service.
The industrys first supply the UK Atomic Energy Authority UKAEA with all their tooling requirements.
Step-by-Step guide to the RoHS legislation has been published in conjunction with This is in addition to the existing contracts with UKAEA for the supply of personal and ERA Technology and the first catalogue of RoHS compliant product was distributed to protective equipment from BuckHickman InOne, and for electrical and electronic customers early in 2005.
Customers can also search on the web site using RoHS as the equipment from Farnell InOne.
UKAEA are provided with a tailored online catalogue and a attribute to locate any of the 12,000 compliant products listed.
This number will be added to bespoke web site of approximately 100,000 products enabling them to streamline continuously throughout the coming year.
purchasing, better control spending and ensure their employees buy from approved suppliers.
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17 Operating Review Marketing and Distribution Division continued Farnell InOnes Head of Product Market Upgrading our systems Geographic expansion Strategy chairs the RoHS sub-committee We are constantly improving the effectiveness We have developed our presence in China in of the UKs principal trade association, the of our marketing and levels of service through response to demand from our global customers Association of Franchised Distributors of our increasing understanding of our customers with operations there.
We have a representative Electronic Components AFDEC and has buying patterns and requirements.
office in Beijing and a sales office and spoken at a number of major international warehouse in Shanghai.
Through an active public relations The prime source of this market intelligence is year-end, we appointed a new experienced the millions of transactions and other contacts campaign the Group has successfully raised Managing Director for Farnell-Newark InOne in the profile of the issues around RoHS and with our customers and suppliers.
Our China, to spearhead our growth in this rapidly investment in information technology enables WEEE in the industry.
us to take our product and customer data, Working with our suppliers interpret it and identify new ways in which to Looking ahead To our suppliers, we represent a very effective improve and differentiate our offer from that of In the coming year our principal areas of focus means of reaching a valuable and diverse our competitors.
Our multi-channel marketing providing our customers with an facilitates the launch of new products targeted Our new publication management system industry-leading product range and supplier enables the global management of product at specific types of customers.
This year we portfolio have run global product launches for electronics data and allows new products to be added and launched weekly.
It also makes the publication leveraging our information technology suppliers Molex, targeted at the industrial sector and Microchip targeted at electronic design of web pages, catalogues, flyers and other investments in customer relationship marketing materials faster, more accurate and management and web-enabling technologies engineers.
The Microchip launch was supported by Newark InOne and Farnell more responsive to market changes.
to expand our presence with small and medium size customers InOnes technical support teams.
Our new web site search engine has been rolled providing information, technical support and out successfully.
It is easy to use and gives fast an increasing range of RoHS compliant online access to over 2 million products.
The products to our customers intelligent searching enables customers to search as they think, drilling down into further developing our service and information logically, using specific product segmentation proposition through attributes to find what they need.
A complementary eCommerce and traditional breadcrumb trail means buyers can retrace marketing channels, including for the first time one or more steps without having to begin an global and pan-regional new product launch entirely new search, invaluable when looking for campaigns targeting the industrial sector, and products with similar characteristics.
Total increasingly, electronic design engineers.
eCommerce sales through our web sites and eProcurement arrangements increased The continued transformation of our business 56 per cent over last year and now account into a world leading marketing and distribution for 18 per cent of sales in the Americas and business is our primary objective.
Through the 17 per cent of those in the Europe and strength of our team, the power of our Asia Pacific region.
technology and the quality of our service we believe we can build market share and deliver Farnell InOne, BuckHickman InOne and CPC superior levels of profitability.
Product range are all now operating on the same transactional system, allowing them to make the complete Our InOne businesses keep around 400,000 products in stock and make a further 4.3 million product offer of all three businesses available to customers more easily.
available to our customers via our supplier relationships.
Our warehouse in Lige, Belgium, has continued to maintain high service levels while As we use our customer relationship management systems to understand better the increasing order volumes.
Lige utilises our most advanced warehouse technology.
We are specific requirements of our customers, we are increasing the depth and relevance of our able to achieve some of our highest levels of productivity, accuracy and efficiency through product offer.
our investment in state of the art pick and pack technology.
At Newark InOne, in order to compete more effectively in the design engineers segment, we added 28,000 new products to the catalogue published in September.
We were the first catalogue distributor in North America to offer a free of charge re-reeling service on custom length reels of passive component tape with same day shipping a service which is of particular value to manufacturers of small quantities saving them time and money.
18 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
