4 Strategic and operational review WE WILL CONTINUE TO DELIVER SUSTAINED GROWTH BY APPLYING OUR PROVEN STRATEGY OF ORGANIC GROWTH AND VALUE-ENHANCING ACQUISITIONS Giles Thorley, Chief Executive The financial year to 20 August 2005 has seen our strategy continue to deliver long-term growth for shareholders through organic operational improvement and value-enhancing acquisitions.
Punchs strategy is straightforward and has remained consistent since formation.
It is to focus on the sustained organic growth of our pub estate by constantly improving the quality of pubs and their consumer offer.
This is achieved through the recruitment of high quality pub operators: training and support: capital investment and the continued development of preferential supply arrangements with our suppliers.
At the same time, the QUALITY PUB Group seeks to acquire pubs that meet the Boards criteria ESTATE for earnings enhancement and to efficiently finance the business using long-term debt that complements our income streams and the strength of our balance sheet.
ACQUIRE ATTRACT MORE THE BEST Punchs results for the year demonstrate good progress PUBS RETAILERS in all of these areas.
Results OPTIMISE A summary of key achievements is set out below.
FINANCE Figures exclude exceptional items: Turnover of 770m, up 21% INDUSTRY DEVELOP LEADING EBITDA of 412m, up 21% INCOME TRAINING & STREAMS profit before tax and amortisation of 201m, up 28% SUPPORT Adjusted earnings per share of 62.3p, up 28% DEVELOP FULL PUB Continued organic growth with like-for-like turnover POTENTIAL and pub profit contribution both up 2.5%.
Average EBITDA per pub in the original estate up 4% Acquisition and completed integration of InnSpired and Avebury adding a further 880 leased and tenanted outlets PUNCHS GROWTH PROPELLER MODEL In recognition of these excellent results the Board is recommending a final dividend of 7.6p per ordinary Our growth propeller model is the basis of Punchs business strategy.
Through the constant application share, taking the full year dividend to 11.3p, an increase of this proven strategy we have achieved another of 26% on last year.
The final dividend will be payable year of good progress, driven by organic growth on 26 January 2006 to shareholders on the register on and value-enhancing acquisitions.
com 5 A high quality retailer is RETAILER key to the success of any RECRUITMENT pub.
We actively recruit talented individuals & TRAINING through a dedicated BUILDING BETTER recruitment team, BUSINESSES targeted marketing and our recruitment website.
The skills and knowledge 2 Quality retailers are key to to run a successful pub our success.
are enhanced by our award-winning training programme.
New for 2005 is our profit Through Quality course, focusing on quality retail standards, which has been shortlisted in this years National Innkeeping Training Awards.
12 Corporate activity and renancing In September 2004, we completed the acquisition of InnSpired with an intention from the outset to renance that business and sell on those pubs in the estate that did not meet our growth criteria.
That process was duly completed in January 2005, at which point we integrated the retained 471 pubs into the Punch infrastructure.
The net cost of 213m represented excellent value for the retained estate and we have already seen growth of 4.5% in the operational performance of those pubs, which contributed for 49 weeks in the trading year.
In August 2005, we completed the acquisition of Avebury Holdings, with 409 additional pubs, for a price of 219m including debt.
This simple acquisition was fully integrated into the Punch estate by mid October 2005.
Results for the year include two weeks trading from Avebury.
Both InnSpired and Avebury offer great potential for growth, particularly through our investment programme and the introduction of progressive Retailer Agreements over the next few years.
The performance of the former Pubmaster estate, acquired in December 2003, provides a real illustration of the potential which saw EBITDA per pub grow by 7.6% this year.
In addition to these two large acquisitions we continue to secure individual pubs and improve the quality of our estate through disposal of any pubs that do not offer sustainable income.
During the year we completed the purchase of 106 individual sites and sold 93 pubs, mostly 3,016 for alternative use.
At the financial year end the estate comprised 8,227 pubs, prior to the sale of 45 pubs to Admiral Taverns on 8 September 2005.
1,800 Key to our ability to expand through acquisition is our efficient capital structure.
This provides the stability of 716 03 04 05 long-term xed rate finance but also allows us to raise further debt finance as profitability permits.
In August GROWING TRAINING PROGRAMME 2005, we restructured the securitised debt acquired with the Pubmaster business in 2003.
This restructure enabled The number of retailers attending our training us to replace all short-term facilities, to extend this programme has increased by over 420% in 2 years, securitisation to 1.25bn at xed rates averaging 6.2% to 3,016 in 2005.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 6 Strategic and operational review continued Working with our retailers INVESTMENT on capital investment BUILDING BETTER projects helps drive business growth for BUSINESSES both parties.
In the last financial year we have completed 936 development schemes, investing over 63m 1 The Merlin, before.
The Hundred House in Bromsgrove formerly The Merlin underwent extensive modernisation and the 460,000 project has proven an excellent opportunity, achieving a high return on investment.
12 and to renegotiate covenants to ensure operational exibility.
This renancing raised some 150m of new cash, paving the way for the acquisition of Avebury.
The Groups financial structure and resources mean that we remain well placed to capitalise on further acquisition opportunities.
Organic growth Our business model continues to deliver growth in revenue and profit.
We believe that only by encouraging the success of our retailers can we be successful.
Our objective is therefore to maximise the overall profit of every pub.
To give greater focus to this objective we have increased the face-to-face contact with our retailers.
In those pubs within our estate that we have owned for at least two full years, organic turnover growth of 2.5% and steady margins led to an increase in pub profit contribution of 2.5%.
We continue to seek the best calibre of entrepreneurial retailers.
Over the past 12 months, we have tightened our recruitment process combining local knowledge and advertising on a pub by pub basis with a national recruitment campaign tied into our website.
The combination of a structured interview process and assistance given to potential retailers in the preparation of business plans has further improved the quality of applicants.
At present we have 1,529 registered applicants seeking pubs with Punch.
Over the year some 3,000 retailers and staff have participated in our award-winning training programmes 8,227 which amount to nearly 14,000 training days.
Our training 7,334 focus continues to be on those issues that make the biggest financial impact.
4,515 4,302 4,160 Consumers in Punch pubs are offered an ever-widening choice of drinks products with over 250 draught ales and lagers and 500 plus non-beer product lines available to our 02 03 04 05 01 retailers.
We sold 164 different cask ales during the year and our launch of the Connect to Cask awareness campaign PUB NUMBERS 2005 highlighted the opportunities to be gained from the proper promotion and sale of cask ale.
We also sourced ales from Average pub numbers have grown 18% in 2005 www.
com 7 Our proactive approach LEGISLATIVE to the new Licensing Act SUPPORT offered our retailers a BUILDING BETTER comprehensive support package designed to BUSINESSES maximise the business benets of the reform.
We have also led the way in helping our retailers prepare for changes in 2 legislation on smoking in public places.
Our free smoking pack has become the industry standard, and provides everything 1 The Punch licensing pack is a our retailers need to comprehensive point of reference for our retailers.
implement a smoking 2 All retailers are encouraged to policy, such as customer maximise opportunities generated signage, staff notices, by the revised licensing laws.
window stickers and an 3 Free smoking packs were provided 1 3 information booklet.
Trends in the marketplace have seen the growth of cold variants of lager which has seen the lager category as a whole grow within our estate.
As a result of this, beer margin in the estate rose by 3% in the year.
Non-beer sales continue to grow with comparable margin up 6% in the year.
Whilst sales of ready-to-drink avoured alcoholic beverages are now in market decline, cider and wine continue to show strong growth.
We seek to lead these market trends by offering both marketing support and an excellent product range to ensure our retailers are fully able to exploit the opportunities open to them.
This year has also seen the launch of a food offer designed for pubs and retailers with little experience in food Food Solutions which is now available to all our retailers and is already producing positive results in a number of outlets.
Rent in the original Punch estate rose by 6% in the year, with the two key drivers being our new Retailer Agreements and investment.
By August 2005, 957 retailers had lease agreements based on the long-term version of our Retailer Agreement, which is an evolution of the Punch Growth Lease permitting more exibility to reect a retailers particular business needs.
Our investment programme continues to drive business growth for ourselves and our retailers.
During the year we invested over 63m in 936 development schemes, including 423 in the former Pubmaster estate.
We continue to see excellent opportunities to use investment to enhance our estate and achieve high returns.
THE SHINE AWARDS We continue to maximise machine income through machine Our Shine awards continue to recognise our most share agreements with our retailers such that overall income exceptional retailers, encouraging the highest has been steady in an increasingly competitive market.
possible standards across our estate.
Over 1,200 entries were received in September 2004 across Industry issues four categories: Best Food Experience, Best Drinks Punch Taverns is committed to developing a responsible Experience, Best Community Experience, and approach to its corporate social responsibility.
Our pubs Best Customer Experience.
are an integral part of the local communities in which they are sited and we believe that building strong Above are last years overall winners Roger Ward relationships with the community is a fundamental and Steve Pilling, who run Mr Thomass Chop House part of that responsibility.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 8 Strategic and operational review continued A review of our operational SERVICE & support structure has SUPPORT created smaller geographical areas, BUILDING BETTER enabling our Business BUSINESSES Relationship Managers to spend more time with our retailers.
A new role of 1 New retailers receive our Welcome Pack, full of useful information.
Senior Business Relationship Manager has also been 2 Each retailer meets regularly with their Business Relationship Manager.
created, designed to nurture new BRM talent.
In addition to our Welcome Pack retailers are provided with further support through a wide range of marketing initiatives.
Innovations for 2005 include our Big Orange Book buying guide, and a series of pre- 12 Christmas Trade Shows.
This can be seen in the proactive approach we have taken to the new licensing regime which came into force on 24 November 2005 and the opportunity it offers both our retailers and their local communities in terms of more exible and extended trading hours.
The support package we offered our retailers, which included making applications on their behalf for both premises and personal licences, was taken up by 6,537 of our retailers representing 89% of the estate where new arrangements apply.
As at 1 December 2005 6,724 premises and 6,111 personal licences had been granted.
We have also been successful in extending licensing hours 99% of our pubs applied for variations and to 1 December 2005 97% of those had been granted.
This has been accomplished by working closely with both our retailers and the local communities in which they operate.
There has been much discussion about prospective legislation imposing restrictions on smoking in public places.
Together with many in the industry, we have introduced a smoking charter which has seen 4,291 of our pubs implement a smoking policy in their business.
Legislation in Scotland is due to be implemented in March 2006 and we have already developed detailed plans for each of our pubs to create outside smoking areas and to look at other aspects of the pub trade to develop such as food.
Prospective legislation for England and Wales has just been announced and again we will address the final legislation on a pub by pub basis to take advantage of the opportunities it may offer for our retailers.
CSR INITIATIVES Current trading and outlook The outlook for our business continues to be positive In November 2005 we were named Most Responsible and current trading is satisfactory and in line with the Pub Co in the Morning Advertisers prestigious Boards expectations.
Both of our recent acquisitions Responsible Drinks Retailing awards, demonstrating are performing well and we continue to see good our committed approach to corporate responsibility opportunities for further acquisitions and property and industry-leading best practice initiatives.
based transactions to enhance value.
Our retailers also raise thousands of pounds for The community pub holds a unique and strong position charity, as well as providing additional services, in the social fabric of the UK and we believe that by such as convenience stores or Post Ofce branches, helping ensure their pubs remain at the very working closely with our retailers and focusing on heart of their communities.
investment and training it will continue to do so.
com 9 We have continued to PRODUCTS & expand our range of STANDARDS drinks products to ensure BUILDING BETTER our retailers have the best choice available, whilst BUSINESSES maximising our income from machines also remains an important focus in an increasingly competitive market.
3 A major development 1 Leisure machines increase the for 2005 has been the income streams of retailers.
introduction of Food 2 Pub food is a popular way for Solutions.
Offering seven retailers to maximise their potential.
different routes into the 3 Our selection of quality drinks offers retailers the best choice.
food market, this is an innovative new scheme designed to help our retailers capitalise on the increasing popularity 2 1 of pub food.
CSR Valuing our responsibilities Punch Taverns is committed to a progressive approach to corporate responsibility.
We have grouped our current activity into four areas which we believe are core to our strategy.
Commitment to the Community We believe the pub is an integral part of the local community and we support this through the Pub is the Hub scheme.
We have a policy for fundraising and charitable donations, and support active involvement with local action groups, schools and charities.
CSR ACTIVITIES Marketplace Leadership Some corporate social activities we have been We provide industry-leading training to develop our involved in this year retailers to their full potential.
We pride ourselves on giving the best support and aim to be the first choice for Commitment to the Community Employer of Choice anyone interested in running their own pub.
We work closely with our retailers, the industry and government Member of the Pub is the Discounted gym membership Hub scheme Annual Charity Ball to address social issues.
Work experience with local schools In-house magazine supporting open 23,000 donated to the Gambling internal communication Employer of Choice Industry Charitable Trust Annual Employee Survey We are committed to practices which will help us to 15,400 donated to Share Incentive Plan for employees become an employer of choice.
We assess employee charitable causes Employee Assistance Programme 64,000 raised for Comic Relief to support well-being of employees opinions through an annual survey and offer our by our retailers Member of Duke of Edinburgh employees a range of benets and support to help Local Marie Curie Cancer Awards scheme improve performance and create a happy and healthy Care fundraising working environment.
Member of Business in the Community Commitment to the Environment We are committed to exploring new ways to minimise any Marketplace Leadership Commitment to the Environment negative effect of our working practices on the environment.
Shine Awards recognising high Paper recycling scheme We encourage our employees to consider the environment performing retailers Encourage electronic rather through car sharing and home working.
Regional and National Retailer forums than paper-based working Retailer Charter a clear approach Staff travel policy to working with retailers priority parking spaces Membership of the British Beer for car sharers and Pub Association, All Party encouraging use of Parliamentary Beer Group public transport and Association of Licensed supporting home working Multiple Retailers Punch Smoking Charter Named Most Responsible Pub Co in Responsible Drinks Retailing Awards, November 2005 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
