CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW In the year ended 30 June 2005, Redrow delivered a 14% increase in profit before tax to 141.1m 2004: 124.1m and a 13% increase in earnings per share to 62.1p 2004: 54.8p, whilst continuing its unique track record amongst major homebuilders of increasing legal completions in every year since 1990 as legal completions reached 4,372 2004: 4,284.
These results were achieved against a backdrop of a changing trading environment as the housing market began to adjust from the very strong conditions of the last few years towards a more normal market.
This change in market conditions resulted from successive increases in interest rates and increasing concerns expressed by the Governor of the Bank of England regarding the level of consumer debt.
As a result, the Neil Fitzsimmons consumer exercised greater caution, reflected in reduced levels of Chief Executive activity in the housing market which began to take effect in the middle of 2004 and has continued through 2005.
Redrow has been positioned to Strategy manage the period of adjustment Redrow had recognised that the strength displayed in the housing to a normal housing market.
market in the period up to the middle of 2004 was not sustainable and it was inevitable that there would be a period of adjustment as the In the medium term it has market returned to more normal levels of activity.
The Group was opportunities to deliver organic positioned to meet the short term challenges of this adjustment and adopted a strategy that would provide the capability to deliver growth which, together with a shareholder value in more normal markets.
high quality land bank, effective The first element in the strategy was focused upon sales.
product range and strong By establishing a strong forward sales position and increasing the management team, position number of sales outlets to provide some protection against a period of Redrow to be capable of delivering shareholder value into the future Abbey Manor, Swindon CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW 6 Oakside Park, Kesgrave, Suffolk relative weakness in demand, we achieved an increase in forward sales Group was well placed with forward sales of 2,129 2004: 2,344, from an historic norm of approximately 15 weeks to 28 weeks at comfortably in excess of our historic norm.
In addition, having delivered an uplift in the number of continued protection over the next 12 months, as we anticipate the sales outlets during 2004, we further increased our outlets in the market will continue to operate below normal levels of activity.
financial year to June 2005 and reached 112 as we entered the new In addition, we expect to increase our outlets by 10% over the period financial year.
up to Spring 2006 to further support our sales performance.
The strength of our forward sales position and the increased number of The second element in our strategy has been to position Redrow to outlets have been fundamental to delivering growth in profit before tax have the capability to deliver enhanced volume growth.
Over the last not only for the year to June 2005 but in particular during the second few years, we have focused upon the fundamental drivers of land, half of the year when the Group increased its profit before tax by 7% product and people.
These aspects will become increasingly important to 72.0m 2004: 67.4m despite the more challenging markets.
as house price inflation relates more closely to growth in earnings and margins return to more sustainable levels.
In these circumstances, As anticipated, the market slowed during the financial year, and we delivery of value for shareholders will depend more upon the ability to adjusted our sales strategy accordingly.
With the support of the Groups drive volume for top line growth and the management of the cost base strong forward sales position established in previous years, during the to support margins.
The strength of the Redrow land bank, the last twelve months we focused on the maximisation of sales values and effectiveness of the product range and the contribution and the protection of margins in the face of the softer sales environment.
commitment of the Redrow team underpins our ability to achieve As a consequence of this deliberate differing approach, sales were 9% below the extraordinary level of the previous year.
At June 2005, the these objectives.
7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW Apperley Court, Apperley Bridge, Bradford In addition, it also provides the strength to allow the Group some Land flexibility within the land market.
During the financial year, we The success of a developer is dependent on the quality of its land bank.
exercised some caution in terms of new commitments to land Redrow continues to take a long term approach to land acquisition as acquisition and this is reflected in the reduction of land controlled this approach provides the capability to deliver sustainable margins in under contract to 1,500 plots 2004: 2,400 plots.
However, the Redrow normal markets and the platform for volume growth.
land bank as at June 2005 had the capability to provide 100% of The current land bank provides for our short term needs.
Whilst the projected needs from land owned with planning for the new financial Government has indicated a desire to improve the supply of land for year and 85% of the projected requirements for 2006 07 from the new homes, it is still important within the current land bank to hold current land bank.
Our land bank provides both visibility in terms of land owned with planning, representing approximately three years growth of outlets for 2005 06 and also the potential for further outlet growth in the medium term.
This provides some insulation from the delays experienced from the planning system that currently do not appear to be reducing.
Forward land plays a key part in our long term approach to land During the financial year, Redrow increased land owned with planning acquisition, providing land at enhanced margins and reducing the need by over 5% to 15,800 plots 2004: 15,000 plots.
The quality of the to buy land in the current market.
The quality of Redrows forward land land bank with planning is reflected in the year end plot cost of bank is demonstrated by its contribution to the current land bank and 29,300 2004: 27,300.
This represents approximately 17% of the its ability to continue to make that contribution into the future.
current estimated average selling price of the land bank and maintains In 2004 05, 13 forward land sites were transferred into the current land it as one of the most cost effective land banks in the industry.
bank contributing some 2,200 plots representing 43% of CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW 8 land purchased.
This includes Peacock Farm, Bracknell which will provide a significant core development for Redrow Homes Southern during the next 10 years.
Over the last 3 years, forward land has contributed one third of the land acquired.
In the future, the forward land bank has the potential to continue this contribution.
It comprises 22,100 plots 2004: 22,500 of which over one third either has planning or is allocated for residential development in local plans.
The forward land bank has a broad geographic spread with 67 different locations across the three Regions.
The terms of these options generally allow land to be purchased at a discount to open market value.
There are some 750 plots on 4 sites where the land already has a planning consent with a further 7,500 plots on 16 sites allocated in local plans.
Finally there are a further 47 locations amounting to 13,850 plots that have a realistic prospect of securing a Aerial view of Peacock Farm, Bracknell where in June 2005, the forward land bank delivered 650 plots for Redrow Homes Southern residential planning consent.
An aerial view of Cranbrook where Redrow Homes West Country has 500 forward land plots as part of the proposed new village to the east of Exeter that received a resolution to grant planning in May 2005 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW Dalgarven Meadows, Kilwinning, Ayrshire Product Whilst land provides the key to sustainable margins and the ability to Signature is now the Groups core housing range, combining the former deliver volume growth, our product provides the catalyst to convert Contemporary, Sapphire and Emerald specifications.
These had an that land into profit and cash.
The Redrow product portfolio enables us average selling price in the last financial year of 166,200 to optimise the margins and return on capital employed inherent in our 2004: 155,400 maintaining the average sales price broadly in line land bank as it provides a range of product designed to appeal to a with that of new homes in the UK.
This range can be adapted in terms broad customer base and the tools to deliver improved control of the of internal specification and external elevations to make it appropriate cost base.
to the target market and local environment.
The range includes tool kit types such as flats over garages, corner turn and bridge units that Redrow has rationalised the product portfolio into three distinct allow enhanced street scenes and optimisation of coverage.
There is offerings, each appealing to different homebuyers.
The Signature range also a selection of apartment floor plates that are designed to be represents our core product.
This is complemented by In the City, efficient in terms of construction and can be configured in blocks to Redrows major apartment schemes, and Debut, the Groups new suit each site.
The increased use of these house types will provide both affordable product.
During the year, the first Debut units were legally improved certainty of cost and delivery of build.
completed on our development at Rugby.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW 10 Herons Reach, Trowbridge, Wiltshire Westover Grange, Stone, Staffordshire Parc-y-Coed, St Davids Park, Flintshire 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW Neptune Marina, Ipswich Redrow continues to undertake In the City schemes whilst carefully managing its commitment to this sector of the market.
During the year, the Group legally completed 667 In the City units 2004: 460 at an average selling price of 207,400 2004: 148,700.
Legal completions were secured at Altolusso in Cardiff, Jupiter in Birmingham and at Neptune Marina in Ipswich as well as at our higher value development at Odyssey in London Docklands, the impact of which is reflected in the average selling price during the year.
The Group is currently progressing Vie in Manchester, Celestia in Cardiff Bay and The Boardwalk at Sovereign Harbour as well as the next phase of Jupiter in Birmingham.
Because of the timing of construction, In the City developments are likely to represent a lower proportion of Computer generated image of Celestia, Cardiff completions in 2006 than in 2005 and will be weighted towards the second half.
We continue to procure the construction of these schemes through our central project management team that has developed a skill base to optimise design and specification to deliver building efficiency and control of cost.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW 12 BRE classification and the first scheme at Rugby is one of the few Debut by Redrow developments in the UK to have achieved this demanding target.
It is widely recognised that there is a fundamental inequality between Debut is targeted at customers who wish to buy and live in their own the demand and supply of homes in the market.
The Barker Report home and the legal framework prevents purchase by investors.
clearly highlighted the under provision of new homes and the Redrow intends to operate the management of the developments into Government has shown an increasing focus on delivering affordable the future to ensure that the initial quality is maintained.
Redrow introduced the Debut range to address this key sector of demand in the market largely ignored by the new homes industry.
It delivers on aspects of Government policy relating to affordability, use of Modern Methods of Construction and improved sustainability.
Debut homes range from 275 sq.
ft. and on the first development at Rugby, sold for an initial cash consideration ranging from 49,995 up to 109,995.
Debut will create communities with a sense of place and neighbourly spirit and delivers quality homes which are contemporary in design to suit the target market.
Quality of construction and the environment is a key component within the Debut concept and the use of Modern Methods of Construction, in particular lightweight steel frames produced by Framing Solutions, improves both efficiency and quality.
To deliver more sustainable Debut interiors, maximising space for ideal living environments communities, Debut schemes target Eco-Excellent ratings under the Debut under construction at Buckshaw Village, near Chorley, Lancashire 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW The new Debut product at Rugby, Warwickshire Importantly, Debut delivers margins broadly in line with the Signature The Debut concept commenced development in the middle of 2004 range, thereby delivering appropriate returns for Shareholders.
and within 12 months has delivered its first legal completions.
Increased coverage and speed of build mitigate the increased cost It demonstrates Redrows ability to be imaginative and innovative and associated with the quality of build and the enhanced sustainability.
to adapt its business to the market.
We now have planning permission However, Debut will benefit the Groups return on capital employed as for nearly 300 Debut units and have submitted planning applications for it enables us to bring forward the development of some of our land bank a further 400 units on five sites.
We have been particularly encouraged as well as securing a faster rate of sales and build to return cash for by the response of the Local Authorities in respect of our first three re-investment more quickly.
Debut schemes, each of which secured planning consent unanimously and within the Governments thirteen week target.
This new product offers a significant opportunity for incremental volume growth for Redrow and we have set our objective of delivering 2,000 Debut homes per annum within five years.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW 14 Refurbished and new build apartments, Southbank, Wolverhampton Homes Operations Overall, the Homes operations increased legal completions by 2% to 4,372 2004: 4,284.
The average selling price was 172,400 as compared with 154,700 last year.
This increase of 11% primarily reflected the product mix with an increased proportion of In the City legal completions, particularly on the higher value Odyssey scheme in London Docklands.
Operating margins for the year were broadly maintained at 19.6% as compared with 19.8% last year.
As we have previously indicated, we anticipate an easing in margins in the current year as the inflationary element within our land bank continues to unwind.
During the last twelve months, we have seen greater pressure on material prices than in recent years, particularly where materials have a high energy or steel content.
Our policy of central purchasing and historic partnering arrangements have contained overall increases to a Kingfishers at Sonora Fields, Sittingbourne, Kent minimum level, with some 90% of materials on the Signature range 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW being sourced through Group deals.
Encouragingly, we have In the Southern Region we delivered 1,250 legal completions experienced an easing of pressures on labour costs with the changing 2004: 1,042.
We have geographically positioned our operations to be housing market but inevitably there are hot spots in terms of labour able to take advantage of the growth areas identified by Government and have in addition established Redrow Homes East Midlands in rates where there are high levels of construction activity.
Newark to provide a further opportunity for growth.
It will launch its The Northern Region is our most mature area of operation and legally first sites in the second half of this calendar year and will also make its completed 1,832 units 2004: 2,108 in the year to June 2005. first contribution to volumes in the year to June 2006.
Whilst there remain opportunities to increase volumes in this Region, our key areas for volume growth are in the Western and We have developed our organisational structure to provide us with the Southern Regions.
capacity to grow our business organically.
We have the potential to drive top line growth and deliver 7,000 legal completions per annum in In the Western Region significant growth has been delivered over the the medium term from our Signature and In the City products plus the last few years and 1,290 homes 2004: 1,134 were legally completed opportunity for additional incremental growth from Debut, without during the financial year.
Redrow Homes West Country will make its significant further investment in our fixed cost base.
maiden contribution in the year to June 2006 as it launches its first sites in the second half of this calendar year to increase the capacity for volume growth in this Region.
Masterton Park, Dunfermline CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW 16 As regards the future, amongst other opportunities, we continue to Mixed Use and Regeneration progress the major mixed use scheme at Bishopton near Glasgow The mixed use capability within the Group continues to assist in through a development agreement with BAE SYSTEMS plc that has unlocking residential development opportunities.
We have continued the potential to provide 1,500 residential plots and 100 acres of to progress our mixed use scheme at Buckshaw Village, Chorley where, commercial development.
During the last year, the Scottish Executive in addition to the legal completion of 102 residential units during the approved in principle a new motorway access to facilitate the financial year and securing our second Debut development for 71 units, development representing a major milestone in the progress towards we made significant progress with Matrix Park, the commercial scheme.
During the year, we have disposed of two industrial units totalling 45,500 sq.
ft. developed and sold four office units comprising In addition, as part of the Groups long term strategy to land acquisition 15,000 sq.
ft. and completed the pre-sold investment of the and to provide further opportunities for growth in London and the 100,000 sq.
ft. facility for Vernon Carus Limited.
We have now South East, Redrow Regeneration was established during the first half commenced a further phase of offices on the development.
In addition, of the financial year to focus on large scale regeneration opportunities at Western Approach, Bristol we completed the disposal of the in this area.
It has entered into a 50:50 joint venture for the 51,000 sq.
ft. warehouse unit as well as the remaining land holdings on redevelopment of Watford Junction railway station.
This is a major the distribution park.
transport hub and the scheme has the potential to deliver 2,200 residential units and 150,000 sq.
ft. of commercial property as well as significant infrastructure and community benefits.
The strong trading performance from our mixed use developments means that even after taking into account the significant pre-development and option costs on the Watford Regeneration joint venture, the mixed use and regeneration activities have generated 4.5m of operating profits 2004: 2.7m.
The related turnover of 26.6m 2004: 7.2m benefited the Groups year end cash position.
Looking forward to the new financial year, we would expect that further pre-development expenditure within Redrow Regeneration is likely to offset profits from the mixed use elements of our developments.
Buckshaw Village, near Chorley, Lancashire Matrix Park at Buckshaw Village, near Chorley, Lancashire 17 CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW Framing Solutions Employees and Skills Framing Solutions, our joint venture company that supplies lightweight Redrow remains committed to developing the skills of its employees.
steel frames to the housebuilding industry, performed in line with our During 2004 05 the in-house training@redrow team delivered some 40 expectations during the last financial year.
In terms of financial results, different courses and approximately 4,000 equivalent days of training to its performance is not significant in a Group context and we expect to our employees including formal induction for all new employees.
see a marginally reduced loss in the new financial year.
There is an All new Directors promoted from within and recruited externally increasing focus on Modern Methods of Construction that were a attend an induction course.
We continue to invest in the future by feature of the Barker Report and which are an important element in taking on young people as apprentices in a variety of trades and by current Government thinking.
Lightweight steel frame construction continuing to develop the skills of our graduate trainees, more of whom plays an increasingly important role within Redrow, providing a system have now reached manager level.
In 2005 we are introducing a new that offers benefits as regards build speed and quality.
This system is Assistant Site Manager Development Programme aimed at those with now an integral part of the Groups new Debut product and in our the potential to progress their careers.
success in reaching the final stages of the ODPM and English The Barker Report challenged the sector as a whole to develop skills Partnerships Design for Manufacture competition.
As part of the Major Home Builder Group, we are taking part in the skills initiative with  to pilot an alternative apprenticeship aimed at providing a new route for young people to learn a trade, to develop a new qualification for our site managers and to aim for all persons working on our sites to have CSCS cards by December 2007, leading to a qualified workforce by December 2010.
Aerial view of the Watford Junction site CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW 18 We also remain committed to providing safe environments on our sites and Redrow is playing an active role in developing the Home Builders Federation Health & Safety Charter.
All our operating companies once again received British Safety Council awards and a Silver Award was secured from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents to complement the Bronze Award of last year.
Further reductions in our Accident Incidence Rate and the number of injuries reported under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations were achieved.
In terms of Health and Safety Executive action, as in the previous year, there was only one prohibition notice issued and no prosecutions were made or improvement notices issued.
Outlook In the short term we are focused on the maximisation of sales values Barry Harvey, Northern Regional Chairman presents Joseph Unsworth with the and protecting our margins, increasing our outlets, maintaining the Apprentice of the Year award for the Northern Region quality of our land bank, enhancing the effectiveness of our product and controlling cost.
Reservations in the first 10 weeks of the new financial year are 10% ahead of the corresponding period last year from just over 10% more outlets, albeit the market has remained competitive and deal led in the seasonally weaker months of July and August.
Whilst we anticipate a normal seasonal upturn in activity levels during the Autumn, it is too early to conclude whether the current levels of incentives will continue through the balance of the calendar year.
The degree of competitiveness or otherwise within the market will have a significant impact on the outturn for the first half.
Looking ahead, consumer confidence will be a key factor in determining the strength of the housing market in 2006.
Redrow has been positioned to manage the period of adjustment to a normal housing market.
In the medium term it has opportunities to deliver organic growth through its regional structure, mixed use and regeneration capability, the incremental benefits of Debut and by continuing to build relationships with other stakeholders.
These opportunities, together with a high quality land bank, effective product range and strong management team, position Redrow to be capable of delivering shareholder value into the future.
Neil Fitzsimmons Charlcombe Heights, Portishead, Somerset where Chief Executive Paul Homer received a Pride in the Job award from the NHBC 19
