06 Chief Executive Officers review of operations 2005 was both an exciting and challenging year for TRG.
Whilst we were very active on the corporate front, delivering change which we believe will be value accretive for the Group, we also remained closely focused on our core business and secured further profitable growth.
23% Adjusted operating profit increase in 2005 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005 07 Chief Executive Officers review of operations Although 2005 was a tough year for Our focus during 2005 has been very much companies operating in consumer-facing geared towards further progressing our businesses, our profits and profitability strategy, set out at the end of 2001, of showed significant improvement in both of operating in areas with distinct barriers to our core divisions.
Overall we have delivered entry, good growth prospects and high a full year adjusted profit before tax increase returns.
We are looking to develop a business of 21%.
We have also secured significant that is capable of producing long-term, improvement in our margins through scale, sustainable and growing cashflows and our increased trading levels, efficiencies and strategy is geared to deliver this.
We ended operational improvements and this has 2005 with a rather different configuration of resulted in an improvement of 90 basis business than when we started the year.
points in our adjusted operating profit margin.
Following the sale of Est Est Est and Caffe Uno, most of our business is now located As with last year, there has been a very away from the high streets and, in particular, healthy conversion of profits into cash and away from the crowded high street pizza strong growth in both earnings and cashflow and pasta marketplace.
The result of these per share.
As a result, the Group finances changes is that we now have a business with continue to be strong and our rollout a higher quality of earnings and cashflow than programme has been funded from internally at any time in TRGs recent history.
Following the sale of to further develop these businesses and to our Caffe Uno business in December 2005, grow them so that we are able to maintain we returned 35 million to shareholders by leading market positions and continue to way of a Special Dividend on 9 March 2006. generate high returns.
The Group carries a manageable level of debt, has a strong balance sheet and is well placed All of the key performance metrics improved to continue to fund its growth.
Adjusted turnover increased by 12%, adjusted EBITDA increased by 15.5% and adjusted operating profit increased by 23%.
In 2004 we exceeded one of our medium term targets, to achieve an operating profit margin of 10%, and I am delighted that in 2005 we made significant further progress in this regard with an increase of 90 basis points to secure an adjusted operating margin of 11.1%.
The increased profit was the product of good like-for-like growth from the existing estate, strong returns from new restaurants, cost savings from purchasing initiatives and further operational efficiencies.
This combination represents a healthy background to our continuing profitable development.
1 3 % Full year dividend per share increase in 2005 Results are stated excluding non-trading items and DPP, as set out in more detail in note 2 of the financial statements.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005 08 Chief Executive Officers review of operations Frankie & Bennys Chiquito Leisure 114 units 34 units Frankie & Bennys reached two major Chiquito had an outstanding 2005 with a milestones during 2005 firstly, in April, when significant increase in turnover, EBITDA and the one hundredth unit opened and later operating profit.
EBITDA increased by 38% in the year, in September, when it celebrated and operating profit by 48%.
Margins also its tenth anniversary.
In total we opened improved EBITDA by 220 basis points and 14 new units during the year: both new and operating profit by 230 basis points.
During established businesses performed superbly.
the year we completed our refreshment and Frankie & Bennys enjoyed strong like-for-like refurbishment programme which has sales increases and this, combined with delivered a softer, more contemporary and strong performances from new openings, more female and family friendly style.
We meant that turnover rose significantly.
Both opened nine new Chiquito restaurants during EBITDA and operating profit increased by 2005 of which five were opened during the approximately 30%.
All of the key metrics last six months of the year.
These included improved with both the EBITDA and operating conversions of some former Deep Pan margins improving by around 100 basis Pizza sites.
All of the new openings have points.
Of the eight poorly performing sites performed well.
acquired from the Deep Pan Pizza Company, we converted three into Frankie & Bennys We are delighted with the progress made and the results have been superb.
We plan with Chiquito over the past two years and further such conversions during 2006.
All of we are excited by the potential it has for our new openings have performed well and further expansion.
We are particularly they are set to generate very good returns.
pleased to see this offering working In 2006 we will open 15-20 new restaurants alongside, and complementing, Frankie and we anticipate new unit development & Bennys at several leisure sites.
During will continue at around this level for the rest 2006 we plan to open 5-10 new Chiquito of the decade.
Frankie & Bennys tenth anniversary year was marked by fundraising activities for the BBCs Children in Need Appeal.
I am delighted to report that the efforts and generosity of staff and customers meant that over 150,000 was raised for this very worthwhile cause.
1 89m Leisure total turnover in 2005 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005 09 Blubeckers Garfunkels 17 units 29 units We acquired Blubeckers at the end of June Garfunkels year was one of two halves.
2005 and we are delighted with this business.
A solid first half performance was severely We spent the period to December 2005 affected following the London bombings in integrating the business into TRG and setting July 2005.
This had a significant adverse in place some refinements to the model effect on our Central London trade which which are designed to enable the business typically accounts for over 60% of Garfunkels to improve profitability and to be further turnover and is heavily influenced by tourists developed.
To date, the results from and customers who are participating in Blubeckers have been excellent.
Like-for-like leisure related activities such as theatre, sales growth improved significantly during the cinema and other visitor attractions.
second half of 2005 and this improvement We estimate that these problems resulted has continued into 2006 with strong growth in a profit shortfall of around 0.9m in the over the last few months.
We believe that second half.
Blubeckers has good potential and we are However, during the final quarter of 2005 planning to add up to six new sites during trade started to pick up and currently we 2006 and thereafter we see scope to further are enjoying like-for-like growth.
Blubeckers position in the there is no repeat of last years atrocities marketplace a great offering with very wide we are confident that Garfunkels will enjoy appeal across most socio-economic and age a solid 2006. groups with meals served in a relaxed and safe environment is ideal for catering for future trends in the eating out market.
I would like to thank the team at Blubeckers for the professional and efficient manner in which they have embraced the integration into TRG.
1% Leisure operating margin in 2005 40m Leisure profit in 2005 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005 10 Chief Executive Officers review of operations Concessions Concessions 43 units Our Concessions business has enjoyed another successful and busy year.
During 2005 the business has delivered strong growth in turnover, EBITDA and operating profit.
Profits increased by 27% to 8.9m and the profit margin increased by 50 basis points to 14.9%.
Against a background of cost pressures within the airports business this is a commendable performance.
During the year we opened eight new units of which five were in airports and three in shopping centres.
We were delighted to win a tender for three units at Luton airport and these opened at the end of the first half.
During the second half we opened three shopping centre sites and one airport site and these are trading in line with our expectations.
During 2006 we expect to open between four and six new sites including three at Birmingham airport.
We are delighted with the progress that has been made within our Concessions business over the past four years its profits have increased by 75% and we are determined to continue to develop it to ensure a continuation of this trend.
We enjoy a leading market position in UK airport catering and have invested in our Concessions business and its people with the objective of continuing to be the leading UK player and to secure further profitable growth.
59.8m Concessions total turnover The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005 11 Disposals DPP We have an excellent business, strong During 2005 we sold our Est Est Est and Shortly after the year end TRG exercised its finances, great people and market-leading Caffe Uno businesses.
Prior to sale both option to take control of the DPP business.
Our operations are now predominantly businesses were performing below the The Group is now in the process of integrating in areas where we benefit from distinct previous years level of profitability and did not and rationalising DPP which will result in barriers to entry, good growth prospects demonstrate sufficient potential going forward certain one-off charges in 2006, covered and high returns.
We have the capacity to to justify TRGs continuing ownership.
Both in the Group Finance Directors review.
fund significant future growth from new businesses were sold for very satisfactory developments whilst continuing to grow profits Non-core brands prices and the bulk of the combined cash from our existing restaurants a healthy During the year losses from non-core activities proceeds was returned to shareholders by background to further profitable development.
We will continue way of a Special Dividend on 9 March 2006. to take steps to mitigate the losses from Our focus will continue to be on growing non-core units.
As part of the terms of sale of the Est Est Est shareholder value, through developing a business we agreed to acquire a 40% Group capable of delivering sustainable and Future prospects shareholding in the acquiring company, Living growing earnings and cash flows.
The market We ended 2005 in a form rather different Ventures Limited.
Since acquiring Est Est Est outlook, prospective economic conditions from that in which we started the year.
the team at Living Ventures have been fully and challenges for 2006 are, we believe, fairly Activity on the corporate front has resulted occupied with its integration and relaunch.
similar to those which prevailed during much in our business having a focus geared largely We anticipate that the results of their efforts of 2005.
We made good progress last year towards edge and out of town leisure and will start to come through in the current year and we are confident of continuing to do concession locations.
so in 2006. remaining high street restaurants are located mainly in sites which benefit from high footfalls Andrew Page of tourists, shoppers and customers pursuing Chief Executive Officer leisure-related activities such as the theatre.
11 April 2006 We believe that this more focused composition enables the Group to deliver higher quality profits and cashflows.
9 % Concessions operating margin 8.9m Concessions profit The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005
