Review of operations North America North America For the first time since 1998, Miller Brewing Company posted growth in retail sales and domestic shipments.
This growth was achieved in a challenging with its UK partner were renegotiated.
2005 2004 % Financial summary US$m US$m change competitive and economic environment.
Contract brewing volumes were in line with Turnover 4,892 4,778 2 Substantial increases in fuel costs have the prior year.
EBITA 497 424 17 had a marked impact on consumers Total turnover for the year increased by EBITA margin % 10.2 8.9 disposable income and spending patterns, 2.4%, and within this, US domestic turnover Sales volume hls 000s whilst US beer industry sales were also excluding contract brewing grew by 3.2%.
Lager excluding impacted by more favourable sales trends The level of promotions increased in the contract for the competing wine and spirit categories.
fourth quarter as a result of the intensied brewing 47,380 47,258 These two factors, coupled with variable competition in the market place, and this contract weather conditions, make this performance pricing activity is expected to continue into brewing 10,583 10,593 Carbonated soft all the more pleasing.
Domestic market share the coming financial year.
Strong gains in drinks CSDs 75 70 8 grew to 18.5% on a financial year basis.
both operating efficiency and overall waste Lager domestic Domestic beer sales to wholesalers reductions have been made in Millers sales to increased by 0.7% during the year whilst breweries.
However, during the fourth quarter retailers wholesaler inventories at year end were one the first impacts of the significant increases STRs 44,380 43,997 1 day lower than the prior year.
Wholesaler in world commodity prices, particularly Before exceptional credits of US$7 million being exceptional profit on the sale of Tumwater brewery of US$4 million, Tumwater sales to retailers STRs increased by 0.9% aluminium and energy costs, were felt.
brewery closure costs reversal of US$1 million and integration over the prior year.
In the second half, STRs Total marketing expenditure was higher and restructuring cost reversal of US$2 million 2004: exceptional charges of US$14 million being integration and restructuring costs were unchanged versus the prior year on a than in the prior year, driven by increased of US$13 million, Tumwater brewery closure costs reversal of US$4 million and asset impairment of US$5 million.
spending in the second half.
The mix of Miller Lite has achieved strong growth marketing expenditure continued to shift during the year despite challenging away from overhead and xed costs towards comparatives in the second half of the prior consumer-facing media placements and local year, and was the fastest growing beer brand market activation programmes.
Increased in US supermarkets for our financial year just resources were also deployed in the sales ended, as determined by ACNielsen.
The and marketing departments, and in improving decline in Miller Genuine Draft has slowed the talent level, training and development somewhat compared with the previous year: programmes as well as depth of cover in however Miller remains dissatisfied with the all functions of the company.
Miller is in the brands performance and further investment early stages of implementing world-class will be made behind this brand in the coming manufacturing standards in some of its financial year.
Progress against cost leadership Increased focus is being applied to the goals has been in line with expectations and Miller High Life and Milwaukees Best brand the resulting productivity gains have been franchises by both the company and its reinvested in the core strategic focus areas distributors, and the decline in these brands of the business.
These include an expanded has slowed.
During the year, Olde English sales organisation, with the recruitment of and Mickeys returned to volume growth.
nearly 200 specialised sales force team In the worthmore segment, Pilsner Urquell members, funding of local market initiatives has continued to grow whilst Peroni Nastro in all areas, the expansion of the on-premise Azzurro was launched during the fourth taste challenge with millions of consumer quarter.
The early signs for this brand are intercepts being achieved, improved brand promising.
Brutal Fruit was trial launched in marketing capability and an increase in three areas of the country late in the financial marketing expenditure on Millers year whilst shipments of both SKYY Blue and key brands.
SKYY Sport were discontinued during the year.
EBITA for the year grew 17% to US$497 Internationally, volumes experienced million despite the challenging competitive and varying performance across the territories.
Following this strong During the year Millers licensing arrangements performance, Millers target of achieving a 10 SABMiller plc
