BOARD OF DIRECTORS SIR BRIAN STEWART 60 TONY FROGGATT 57 IAN MCHOUL 46 JOHN NICOLSON 52 JOHN DUNSMORE 47 PETER KENNERLEY 49 IAN MCALLISTER 62 CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR CHAIRMAN, GREATER CHAIRMAN AND MANAGING COMPANY SECRETARY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EUROPE USA DIRECTOR, S&N UK AND GENERAL COUNSEL Sir Brian was appointed to the Board Tony was appointed Chief Executive Ian joined the Board in 2001.
He John was appointed to the Board in John was appointed to the Board Peter joined the Group as Company Ian was appointed to the Board in in 1988.
Having qualified as a in May 2003.
Tony started his qualified as a Chartered Accountant July 2000 as Chairman, International in 2002.
He began his career Secretary in May 1999.
He is the senior non-executive chartered accountant, he joined career with the Gillette Company, with KPMG and then held a number Beer and took up his current position as a graduate trainee in sales and as a Solicitor with the London law director and Chairman of the S&N in 1976 and has worked in a and has held a wide range of sales, of finance and strategy posts in in June 2004, with responsibility for marketing at S&N, but then spent firm, Simmons & Simmons, and the Remuneration Committee.
Ian variety of finance and management marketing and management the beer industry, first with Fosters our businesses in Belgium, Portugal, 13 years in the City, starting as a main part of his career was spent has spent most of his career within positions, becoming Finance positions in many countries, with Brewing Group and its subsidiary, Finland and Greece as well as drinks analyst, subsequently rising as a partner advising international the Ford Motor Company, holding Director in 1988, and Chief Executive major consumer goods companies Courage, and then with our venture markets, the USA to become Head of UK Equities businesses in the areas of corporate various positions in Germany, in 1991.
He was appointed Deputy including Heinz and IDV.
His last Inntrepreneur Pub Company.
With a background in at Natwest Securities.
In 1996 finance, mergers and acquisitions.
Britain and the USA, and finally Chairman in 1997 and Chairman in appointment before joining S&N, In 1998 he joined S&N as the marketing, with ICI, Brooke Bond he rejoined S&N as Director of He also spent two years as as Chairman and Managing 2000.
He is Chairman of Standard was as President Europe, Middle Finance Director for Scottish Group and Unilever, he joined Corporate Development before Secretary to the Takeover Panel.
He is Life Assurance Company and Vice East and Africa for Seagram Spirits Courage, before being appointed Courage, then part of the Fosters becoming Head of UK on trade currently Chairman of Network Rail.
President of the British Beer and & Wine Group.
Brewing Group as Managing in 1997 and moving to his current In addition to his wide international Pub Association.
Director, Off Trade in 1993. position in 2002.
He is Vice industrial experience, he adds Following S&Ns acquisition Chairman of the British Beer & Pub a further social perspective to of Courage in 1995, he became Association and a Trustee of the the Board through his membership Marketing Director, Scottish Portman Group and of the Scottish of the Carbon Trust, past Deputy Courage and then Group Community Foundation.
Chairmanship of the Qualifications Corporate Development Director.
and Curriculum Authority and past membership of the Advisory Committee on Business and the Environment.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Sir Brian Stewart Chairman, Sir Angus Grossart, Erik Hartwall, Ian McAllister, Sir Ian Robinson REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Ian McAllister Chairman, Dr Neville Bain, Sir Angus Grossart AUDIT COMMITTEE ERIK HARTWALL 64 DR NEVILLE BAIN 65 SIR ANGUS GROSSART 68 HENRIK THERMAN 68 SIR IAN ROBINSON 63 PHILIP BOWMAN 53 Dr Neville Bain Chairman, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Ian McAllister, Sir Ian Robinson Erik joined the Group Board in May Neville was appointed to the Board Sir Angus was appointed Henrik was appointed to the Board Sir Ian was appointed to the Board Philip was appointed to the board in TREASURY COMMITTEE Sir Angus Grossart Chairman, 2002 after the merger with Hartwall.
He qualified as a Chartered to the Board in May 1998.
He in May 2002 following the Hartwall in September 2004.
He is Chief Executive Ian McHoul, Dr Neville Bain, Alan Dick, He has spent his career with Accountant in New Zealand and is a Chartered Accountant and merger.
With a degree in chemical as a Chemical Engineer, he had of Scottish Power plc and the senior John Jackson Hartwall since 1971, working worked as a Finance Director before practised at the Scottish Bar.
He engineering, he has held various a 30-year career in the global independent director of Burberry both in Finland and internationally, moving into sales and marketing, is Chairman and Managing Director managerial posts within the Hartwall engineering and construction Group plc.
Prior to joining Scottish finally being appointed Managing and then general management.
of Noble Grossart Limited, the Group since 1964.
He was a industry, including posts as Chief Power, Philip was Chief Executive Director and then Deputy Chairman He spent 27 years at Cadbury Scottish merchant bank.
He is a driving force behind the inception Executive of John Brown and of Allied Domecq plc for seven years.
His extensive experience Schweppes working in New director of Trinity Mirror plc and a and development of BBH, leading Chairman of Davy Group, both parts His career includes five years as a Dr Iain Anderson served on the Board in the brewing and beverage Zealand, Australia, South Africa trustee and Deputy Chairman of the the business successively as Chief of Trafalgar House Group.
He director of Bass plc now Mitchells as a non-executive director, resigning on 31 August 2005.
Philip Bowman joined industry, both in Finland and and the UK, finally as Group Deputy National Heritage Memorial Fund.
Executive, Deputy Chairman and spent six years as Chief Executive & Butler plc and Intercontinental the Board on 10 January 2006. internationally, is a major asset Chief Executive, before becoming Having acted as financial or strategic then Chairman during the period of Scottish Power plc and has Hotel Group plc where he held to the Board.
Chief Executive of Coates Viyella adviser to, and served on the from 1993 to 2004.
His presence held a number of non-executive the roles of Chief Financial officer plc, the worldwide clothing fashion boards of many public and private on the Board therefore gives us and advisory appointments within and subsequently Chief Executive and textile group.
He is Chairman companies and other bodies, a major insight into the businesses industry.
He is currently Chairman of Bass Taverns.
In addition he of Hogg Robinson plc.
Dr Bains he brings extensive financial and and markets of a major part of of Ladbrokes plc, formerly Hilton has been a director of British Sky wide financial and business banking experience to the Board.
He is also Chairman Group, a member of the Takeover Broadcasting Group plc, Chairman background enable him to make an of Nokia Tyres plc.
Panel and a director of Siemens of Liberty plc and Chairman of Coral important contribution to the Board, Holdings plc.
The Board benefits, in Eurobet plc.
He brings a wealth particularly in his role as Chairman particular, from his deep knowledge of international finance and of the Audit Committee.
of building and developing business experience with an international businesses.
intimate knowledge of the alcoholic beverages and pub businesses.
14 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2005 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2005 15 GROUP RESULTS DIRECTORS THE COMBINED CODE structure, the appointment of the Chief Executive REPORT OF CORPORATE A detailed analysis of the results for the period The names of the current directors of the Company We have complied with the Combined Code on and the approval of all other Board appointments THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE is provided in note 4 to the accounts.
Corporate Governance issued by the Financial on the advice of the Nominations Committee: Board John Nicolson, Tony Froggatt, Sir Brian Stewart Reporting Council throughout the year, with two procedures and processes and promoting the REPORT DIVIDENDS and Sir Angus Grossart retire by rotation and, being exceptions.
The first relates to the proportion of Groups interests with third parties, including The directors are recommending a final dividend eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
Philip independent non-executive directors on the Board investors, government organisations, industry bodies, of 14.09p per share to be paid on 3 May 2006 to Bowman has been appointed a director since the provision A.
3.2, and the second relates to the short business partners and the community at large.
ordinary shareholders on the register at close of last AGM and as required by the Companys period during which the Nominations Committee did The Chairmans role envisages a time commitment business on 31 March 2006.
This would make a total articles of association, retires and offers himself not comprise a majority of independent non-executive of the equivalent of around 10 full days each month.
ordinary dividend for the year of 21.13p per share.
Ian McAllister has served on directors provision A.
We cover these points The role of the Chief Executive is to lead the the board for over nine years and in accordance in more detail in the report from the Nominations management of S&N in order to deliver maximum BUSINESS REVIEW AND with the combined code will now offer himself for Committee below.
He is responsible to the FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS annual re-appointment.
Chairman and the Board for all aspects of management The Report of the Directors should be read in Erik Hartwall and Henrik Therman are former THE BOARD of the Group including: the preparation and evaluation conjunction with the earlier pages of this document, shareholders of Oy Hartwall Ab, which the Company The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of of strategic options for recommendation to the Board: including in particular, the Operating and Financial acquired in May 2002 pursuant to agreements dated the Group and for determining our long-term objectives the implementation of agreed strategic objectives: Review on pages 8 to 13, which contain details of 14 February 2002.
Otherwise, no director had, and strategy.
Led by the Chairman, its other members the preparation of long-term financial plans and the the Groups trading during the year and an indication during or at the end of the year, any material interest are the Chief Executive, three further executive annual budget: the achievement of financial objectives of likely future developments.
Details of financial in any contract of significance in relation to the directors and seven non-executive directors.
We have and ensuring that all key functions are adequately instruments used by the Company are given in Groups business.
included brief biographies of each member of the resourced and that the Groups organisation structure, note 25.
The interests of the directors in the ordinary Board on pages 14 and 15.
Since our last report, policies and practices are aligned with the Groups shares of the Company are set out in the Directors there have been two main changes: Dr Iain Anderson business objectives.
The Chief Executive also chairs AGM SPECIAL BUSINESS Remuneration Report on pages 21 to 29. resigned as a non-executive director on 31 August the Executive Management Group, which comprises Details of the special business to be proposed 2005 and Philip Bowman was appointed a nonall executive directors together with heads of our main at the AGM are contained in the Circular Letter to EMPLOYEE RELATIONS executive director on 10 January 2006.
We have business areas and group functions.
shareholders accompanying the Companys Report AND INVOLVEMENT also made a number of changes to the make up of and Accounts.
Special business comprises the The Company is firmly committed to the principles our main committees, as explained in the committee BOARD MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES renewal of the directors allotment authority, permission of employee involvement.
A full range of briefing, reports below.
The Board has eight scheduled meetings each year, to make non pre-emptive issues of ordinary shares consultation and bargaining arrangements have been There is a formal schedule of matters specifically including one full days strategy discussions.
We also in limited circumstances, the introduction of a new developed in all parts of the Group and these are reserved for the Board, for example: approval of convene special meetings where necessary, for Global Share Plan and renewal of the authority for subject to continuous review and improvement.
annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: example to review major transactions.
Some meetings the market purchase of Company shares.
approval of preliminary announcements and are held in Group office in Edinburgh, but we also use DISABLED PERSONS published reports and accounts and dividend policy.
Board meetings as an opportunity to visit businesses SHARE CAPITAL Full and fair consideration has been given to The Board also sets the Groups capital authorisation and to meet management throughout the Group.
Details of share movements during the year, including applications for employment made by disabled and control procedures.
We have a schedule of items to be brought to the shares issued and options granted under the persons and appropriate training, career development We have four permanent board committees: Board throughout the year, and the Chairman sets the employee share schemes and options held by the and promotion have been provided in all cases.
Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and Treasury.
agenda for each Board meeting after discussion with Scottish & Newcastle employee share trusts are Each of these committees has formal terms of the Chief Executive and other directors.
Each meeting contained in note 24 to the accounts.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE reference, which are available on our website will usually include a report from the Chief Executive CONTRIBUTIONS www.
com or on request from the covering issues such as recent trading and current PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS During the financial year the Group made charitable Company Secretary.
We have included a report from issues facing the business.
All directors also receive The Company agrees terms and conditions with contributions totalling 525,000 December 2004 the Chairman of each of these committees below.
a monthly report on the performance of the Group suppliers before business takes place.
The Companys 452,450 further details of which are given in the and its individual businesses for the month in question policy and practice is to pay agreed invoices in Groups Corporate Social Responsibility Report CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE and the year to date.
accordance with the terms of payment.
At the year which will be posted on the Groups website.
The We have agreed a clear written division of The following table shows the number of Board end the amount owed to trade creditors by the Group made no political contributions during the year responsibilities between the Chairman and the and committee meetings held during 2005, together Company was equivalent to 16 days of purchases or in the previous financial period.
with individual attendance by directors.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership AUDITORS of the Board including: overseeing the overall Board NOTIFIABLE INTERESTS A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the As at 21 February 2006, the Company has been Companys auditors and to authorise the Board to set notified of the following interests representing 3% their remuneration will be put to the forthcoming Board or more of the issued ordinary share capital of Annual General Meeting.
board Audit Nominations Remuneration Treasury By Order of the Board strategy day 4 meetings 4 meetings 7 meetings 4 meetings Hartwall Capital Ltd 10.7% Peter Kennerley Prudential plc 4.0% Secretary Sir Brian Stewart 8 4 1 Trevor Hemmings family interests 4.0% 21 February 2006 Dr J I W Anderson 3 out of 5 1 out of 2 0 out of 4 Barclays Plc 3.9% Dr N C Bain 8 4 7 3 Legal & General Group Plc 3.1% Mr J M Dunsmore 7 Mr A G Froggatt 8 2 Sir Angus Grossart 83 41 4 Mr E J V Hartwall 8 4 Mr I G McAllister 8 4 4 7 Mr I P McHoul 8 4 Mr J R Nicolson 8 Mr H V L Therman 8 3 Sir Ian Robinson 7 1 out of 1 1 out of 1 Notes: 1 Retired 31 August 2005 2 Retired from Audit Committee & joined Remuneration Committee 29.09.05 3 Joined Audit Committee & Nominations Committee 29.09.05 16 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2005 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2005 17
