We have an agreed procedure for directors to take meetings, people and relationships.
Whereas overall conducted, for example tax advice or due diligence on brands, strategic experience and financial expertise, CORPORATE independent professional advice if necessary at the the review confirmed our view that the Board works transactions, the work may be awarded to the external and use external search consultants to assist us.
We have also arranged an well, it helped us to identify a number of particular auditors, except that if it exceeds 250,000 in value, Non-executive directors are usually appointed appropriate level of insurance cover in respect of issues through which we can improve our effectiveness.
it must first be approved by the Chairman of the for an initial term of three years, which can be REPORT legal action against directors and officers who also In addition to the external review, the Audit Committee.
All other work above 100,000 in value extended for a further two three-year terms or, CONTINUED benefit, subject to certain exceptions from a deed of Committee carried out its own review, which is covered will generally be submitted for tender and assessed exceptionally, for further periods.
A copy of the deed of indemnity is available in the report from the Audit Committee below.
on established criteria, subject to the approval of the to agree any such extension, the Committee carefully for inspection at our Registered Office.
The Company The Chairman evaluated the performance of Chairman of the Committee.
We believe that this evaluates the past and likely future contribution to the Secretary, Peter Kennerley, is responsible for individual directors, both executive and nonpolicy provides a more relevant measure of auditor Board of the director concerned, together with the ensuring that Board procedures are followed and executive.
Ian McAllister, the senior independent independence than the monetary ratios and current Board structure and the need for progressive all directors have direct access to him.
director, led a formal evaluation of the performance guidelines followed by some investors.
A breakdown refreshing of the Board.
During the year, we agreed of the Chairman, as described in the paragraph on of the fees paid to our auditors in respect of audit and that each of Erik Hartwall and Henrik Therman should INDUCTION, TRAINING AND non-executive directors below.
As a result of these non-audit work is included in note 5 to the accounts be appointed for a second three-year term expiring in DEVELOPMENT reviews, the Board confirms that it is satisfied that on page 37.
We also agreed that the appointment All directors receive a full induction on joining the each of the directors who are proposed for re-election of Ian McAllister should be extended for a further Board.
This is tailored for the individual director at the AGM continues to demonstrate the necessary NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE three-year term.
As required by the Combined Code, concerned and includes presentations on our commitment to the Company and to be a fully REPORT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE in extending his appointment, the Committee took businesses, structures and procedures, meetings effective member of the Board.
COMMITTEE, SIR BRIAN STEWART into account the fact that Ian McAllister has already with business and functional heads and visits to The current members of the Committee are: Sir served on the Board for nine years, in particular our main sites.
We also offer major shareholders AUDIT COMMITTEE Angus Grossart, Erik Hartwall, Ian McAllister, Sir Ian assessing his independence.
However, in view of the an opportunity to meet new directors.
REPORT BY THE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN, Robinson and Sir Brian Stewart.
Dr Iain Anderson strengths of contribution that Ian makes to the Board, Our approach to training and continuing DR NEVILLE BAIN was a member of the Committee until his retirement together with his extensive external business development for directors recognises that all The current members of the Committee, who are all on 31 August 2005 and Sir Ian Robinson was experience, we had no hesitation in recommending members of the Board and particularly our nonindependent non-executive directors, together with appointed to the Committee on 29 September 2005. to the Board that he should continue to be regarded executives have extensive experience in senior their dates of appointment to the Committee are: The Committee therefore comprised a majority of as independent.
Our focus is therefore Dr Neville Bain 26 June 1997: appointed Chairman, independent non-executive directors throughout the to ensure that directors regularly refresh their on 2 December 1998, Ian McAllister 26 September year except for the month of September.
We held one REMUNERATION COMMITTEE knowledge of our markets and businesses and keep 1996 and Sir Ian Robinson 29 September 2005. meeting during this month, at which, amongst other REPORT BY THE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN, abreast with external events, for example regulatory Sir Angus Grossart served on the Committee from business, we appointed Sir Ian Robinson to the IAN MCALLISTER developments.
This we do through our monthly 29 May 1998 to 29 September 2005.
The Company Secretary is Secretary The current members of the Committee are: Dr performance reports, Board papers and Grossart and I have, in the view of the Board, the to the Committee and the Chief Executive and Group Neville Bain, Sir Angus Grossart and Ian McAllister presentations from management and advisers.
appropriate level of recent and relevant financial HR Director usually attend meetings by invitation as Chairman, all being independent non-executive We also encourage directors to manage their experience as required by the Combined Code.
except where their personal positions are under directors.
Iain Anderson was also a member of the own development by informing them of and Mark Stevens, Assistant Company Secretary, acts discussion, as do other non-executive directors Committee until his resignation from the Board on recommending appropriate external courses as Secretary to the Committee.
The Group Finance when appropriate.
The Committee meets as required, 31 August 2005. or seminars.
Director and the Head of Group Review and Audit but at least twice a year.
Our formal remuneration report, on pages 21 to attend by invitation, as does Henrik Therman, to The role of the Committee includes: reviewing 29, contains a summary of our terms of reference, a SHAREHOLDERS assist the Committee on issues relating to BBH.
the structure, size and composition of the Board and further explanation of our remuneration policy and We speak to institutional shareholders regularly Representatives of the Groups auditors also making recommendations to the Board on changes: details of the remuneration paid to the Board during throughout the year other than during closed periods.
generally attend the meetings and each year we meet planning succession for directors: assessing and the year.
The Committee met seven times during the Our directors receive regular reports on the views with the auditors at least once without members of nominating for Board approval candidates to fill year and in addition to the matters covered on our of our major shareholders, and the views of City the management present.
Board vacancies: reviewing annually the time formal report, our meetings addressed a number of analysts, including a summary of reactions to our The role of the Committee includes: monitoring commitment required from non-executive directors: topics relating to broader reward issues throughout published results.
the integrity of the financial statements of the making recommendations to the Board regarding the Group, including a presentation on organisation We also encourage communications with private Company and any formal announcements relating to committee memberships: and reviewing the and reward, a review of UK pensions, which was shareholders and welcome their participation at financial performance: reviewing accounting policies, leadership needs of the Company to ensure its ability announced in January 2006 and proposals for a shareholder meetings.
All Board members attend the accounting treatments and disclosures in financial to compete in the marketplace.
Global Share Plan, which are to be put to Annual General Meeting and, in particular, the senior reports: reviewing the effectiveness of the During the year we held four formal meetings, shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
independent director and the Chairmen of the Audit, Companys internal controls and risk management and the agendas included a review of the current Remuneration and Nominations Committees are systems: reviewing the Companys whistleblowing profile of the Board and a discussion of our resources TREASURY COMMITTEE available to answer questions.
We send notice of the procedures: monitoring and reviewing the and our succession plan.
We also looked, in particular, REPORT BY THE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN, Annual General Meeting to shareholders at least 20 effectiveness of Group Review and Audit: making at the role and membership of our committees and as SIR ANGUS GROSSART working days before the meeting and publish details recommendations to the Board as to the appointment a result recommended a number of changes to The current members of the Committee comprise: of the proxy votes for and against each resolution, or reappointment of the Groups external auditor and the Board, as reflected in the report from each Dr Neville Bain, Ian McHoul the Group Finance together with abstentions, after the result of hand approving their terms of engagement: and overseeing individual Committee.
Director, Alan Dick Group Financial Services Director, votes.
We also post details on our website the relationship with the external auditors, including We have also continued in our active recruitment John Jackson Group Treasurer, who also acts as www.
For the first time this assessing independence and objectivity.
of non-executive directors and we were pleased to Secretary, and Sir Angus Grossart, who was year, we offered all shareholders with less than 500 We had four meetings during the year, and announce the appointment of Philip Bowman as an appointed Chairman on 29 September 2005. shares the opportunity of either selling their shares in addition to our regular tasks, we considered the independent non-executive director in January 2006.
The role of the Committee includes: providing or increasing their shareholding, in each case at a operation of the Groups tax department in terms of The Combined Code recommends that at least half strategic recommendations to, and acting on behalf substantially reduced dealing fee, and we were tax planning and risk assessment.
Also, as in previous of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be nonof, the Board on treasury matters: presenting an pleased that over 5,000 shareholders took advantage years, we conducted a formal review of the service executive directors determined by the Board to be annual treasury policy statement for review by the of our offer.
Whilst this offer is now closed, you will provided by the Groups external auditor, Ernst & independent.
We have agreed that all our non-executive Board: and the approval on behalf of the Board find details of our established share dealing service Young LLP.
The results of this review were shared directors are independent, with the exception of Erik of standard terms for loan facilities and guarantees on page 67. with Ernst & Young to provide a basis for our Hartwall and Henrik Therman, who are each directors of within certain financial limits.
recommendation as to their appointment.
We also Hartwall Capital Ltd, which is a major shareholder in the We met four times during the year.
At each PERFORMANCE EVALUATION conducted our own internal formal review of the Company.
Whilst we do not therefore comply with the meeting we reviewed current market conditions for During the year we carried out a full performance effectiveness of the Committee using a structured Combined Code requirements on this point, we believe each of our main businesses, with increasing focus evaluation of the Board, its committees and each questionnaire prepared by Group Review and Audit that we currently have a good balance between on our developing business interests in Russia, India individual director.
extended to all executive directors.
The results executive and non-executive directors on the Board.
Whilst we have an established internal review of the review were positive overall and there was We have therefore not set ourselves a specific process which has worked well in the past, this year a high degree of confidence in the activities of timescale for complying with the Combined Code.
we decided to use external consultants in order to the Committee, although a number of possible Nevertheless, we will continue with our current process bring a different perspective to the process, so for improvements were also identified.
of regular refreshment of the Board membership in the review of the effectiveness of the Board itself, We have agreed a clear policy on the order to combine the benefits of stability of succession we appointed external consultants, Egon Zehnder engagement of our external auditors for non-audit with continued reinvigoration and challenge from International.
This review examined both processes services.
Where work is closely related to the audit, new members.
and behaviours at the Board through one on one for example accounting advice or stock exchange We explained the process we follow for meetings with directors followed by a presentation reporting, work may be awarded to the external appointing new directors, and the criteria we apply to the Board and individual feedback to each director.
If the work is of a nature such that a detailed in our search, in some detail in our last years annual The review covered areas such as corporate understanding of the Group is necessary, or where report.
In essence, we aim to equip the Board with a governance, information, decision-making, Board significant benefit can be gained from work previously balance of skills in the areas of international beverages, 18 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2005 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2005 19
