SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 19 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Key strengths Leading utility in Dow Jones World Sustainability Index for the fourth consecutive year Renewable energy generating capacity of 131MW Placed 13th in the Guardians Giving List in 2004, the highest-ranking utility Strong culture of work-life balance, training and diversity One of first companies in sector to support the United Nations Global Compact Outlook In 2005 2006 and beyond, Severn Trent will continue to promote responsible corporate behaviour across our businesses.
We will work to identify emerging CR issues and opportunities, and we will continue to anticipate issues that might be raised by the socially responsible investment SRI community and other stakeholders.
Main image Amanda Richards, Biffa.
Severn Trent is one of the UK's leading suppliers of environmental goods and services.
We believe this is consistent with sustainable development and with being a good corporate citizen.
We also believe that demonstrating corporate responsibility enhances both the non-financial and financial assets of the company and therefore increases shareholder value.
SEVERN TRENT PLC 20 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Embedding CR in our business were one of the first utility companies in the Both Severn Trent Water and Biffa have Severn Trents policies on corporate UK to do so.
The Compact consists of ten biodiversity action plans in place.
Severn responsibility are steered by our Corporate principles concerning businesses Trent Water launched its first five year plan Responsibility committee.
To reflect the responsibilities on human rights, labour in 1999 and achieved virtually all the targets importance we place on this area, the policies, the environment, and anti-corruption.
It has now launched a revised committee is chaired by the Group Chief Our support for the Compact reflects our action plan for 2004-2010.
It consists of non-executive and existing commitment to responsible executive directors and includes the managing environmental and employment practices, Workplace directors of the four main businesses.
but it also represents a broadening of our CR We actively promote equality, diversity and values to cover human rights issues.
As part health and safety, and encourage employees In June 2004, the Corporate Responsibility of this broader commitment, we have begun to seek a good work-life balance.
committee absorbed Severn Trents working in partnership with other utilities to Charitable Contributions committee.
This incorporate human rights criteria into our The group has a Lifestyle flexible benefits enables us to consider charitable giving in supply chain assessments.
scheme for its UK based employees, and we the overall context of our corporate are expanding this year by year.
citizenship and our work with communities.
Our support for the principles of the Global Compact, and for corporate responsibility in In March 2005, Severn Trent Water was Severn Trent has a detailed corporate general took many forms in 2004 2005, and named as one of the top ten big companies responsibility policy that defines how our is evident across our business.
Below we to work for in the UK in a nationwide survey vision and values on corporate responsibility summarise some of the tangible ways in by The Sunday Times newspaper.
The survey are incorporated in our daily activities.
This which we put our values into practice in acknowledged the companys strengths in includes a Code of Conduct, which was 2004 2005. leadership, treatment of staff and revised in 2004 2005 following extensive contribution to society.
consultations with employees and external Environment stakeholders.
In 2004 2005 our work included mitigating We actively promote diversity, and business our impact on climate change, increasing the units have developed their own diversity Our vision and values volume of waste handled for recycling by Biffa, strategies and action plans.
At Biffa, for As an environmental services company, our promoting biodiversity and improving our example, 400 managers and supervisors activities are of intrinsic benefit to society.
took part in diversity and equality awareness Our ability to deliver business success training in 2004 2005.
Severn Trent Water and the way in which we deliver it, makes Our work to mitigate our impact on climate took part in a benchmarking exercise for a significant contribution to building a change focuses on both short term and Race for Opportunity, a campaign organised sustainable future in the UK and beyond.
The case study by Business in the Community.
It came As part of our commitment to achieving opposite describes how we generate energy runner up in the best newcomer in the a sustainable future, we seek to: from our renewable carbon resources.
Conserve the natural resources that we At the same time, we continually monitor manage our fuel related transport emissions.
Biffas There has also been a strong management Safely dispose of the waste we handle programme to improve fuel efficiency focus on improving health and safety Maintain the infrastructure necessary includes using ultra low sulphur diesel, performance across the group.
to sustain our business in the future and installing smoke emission meters at Comply with the highest environmental workshops to check that each trucks engine This year health and safety targets were set standards is running at optimum efficiency.
Biffa also that included the need to undergo a number Provide a safe working environment where have a target to use biodiesel in 50% of fleet of British Safety Council audits.
The overall our people are valued and respected vehicles by April 2006. group target was to achieve an average score Support the communities in which we live of 3.5 stars per site.
The best performers and work We continued to work with the Carbon were Severn Trent Water who were awarded Trust on our carbon management model.
5 Stars at seven sites and Laboratories Translating values into practice This projects a potential greenhouse gas who received a 5 Star award for a site in In June 2004 we formally expressed our emissions scenario for 2020 for the group, the US.
4 Stars were awarded to seven sites support for the UN Global Compact, and helping us to target where and how we can operated by Biffa and one Laboratories site reduce emissions.
In the face of strong competition, Severn Trent has been named as the utilities sector leader in the global Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the fourth consecutive year.
No other utility has achieved this distinction.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 21 Community these criteria, and supported hundreds of them about the water cycle and promoting All parts of the group aim to contribute local projects.
the benefits of drinking water.
Biffa produced positively to the communities in which an interactive educational CD to teach they operate.
This includes involving Severn Trent is also a leading corporate schoolchildren how they can do their communities in our plans wherever supporter of WaterAid.
Its support in own bit to protect the environment.
possible, and establishing long-term 2004 2005 ranged from our annual community liaison groups at some sites.
corporate donation, to sending volunteers to WaterAid projects in Africa, to employee Our community investment guidelines fundraising and awareness initiatives.
focus on three main areas: environmental education: the built environment: and the Education is a strong theme of our natural environment.
In 2004 2005 our staff community activities.
Severn Trent Water worked with ten partner charities that met works with children and schools, teaching RENEWABLE ENERGY Mitigating our impact on the climate Greenhouse gas emissions are an inevitable result of Severn Trents operations, but we have rigorous programmes to measure, monitor and mitigate those emissions.
Above Energy management is an important part of Biffa captures landfill gas and uses it to Renewable energy generation, Severn Trents work to mitigate the impact produce electricity.
During 2004 2005 it Risley landfill site.
of our operations on the climate.
As well as expanded its generation facilities to include trying to maximise energy efficiency we also smaller landfill sites, and it invested in more significantly reduce our net greenhouse gas mobile facilities to ensure it can respond emissions through renewable electricity to changing emissions patterns.
Severn Trent Water uses combined heat and Biffa and Severn Trent Water between them power CHP units to convert the methane manage 12% of the UKs renewable carbon from digested sewage sludge into electricity.
We call it renewable By the end of the year, their combined carbon because of the important link generation capacity had reached 131MW, between the responsible disposal of these up from some 110MW in 2003 2004. biodegradable materials waste and sewage During 2004 2005 Severn Trent generated sludge and the opportunity to generate around 690GWh of electricity, which equates valuable renewable energy from their disposal.
to 5% of the UKs total renewable electricity During 2004 2005 both Severn Trent Water production.
and Biffa steadily increased their renewable energy generation capacity.
FIND OUT MORE More information is available at: www.
com  The site includes more detailed information about Our Code of Conduct.
You can also view or download a copy of the code.
