SEVERN TRENT PLC 14 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS LABORATORIES ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 STL SERVING THE CUSTOMER Severn Trent Laboratories opened eight new service centres in the US and two in the British Isles in 2004 2005, responding to local market requirements, demand from customers, and opportunities for business growth.
Above Key strengths Expert analysis in accredited laboratories.
Market leaders in the US and UK Reputation for technical excellence and responsive customer service Record of innovation and being at the forefront of new markets Client portfolio of leading US and UK companies New service centres extend geographical strength FIND OUT MORE More information on Severn Trent Laboratories is available at: www.
com SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 15 In the US market conditions were very New indoor air quality IAQ testing facilities challenging in 2004 2005 as federal funding were set up within existing laboratories in for environmental clean up projects was Florida, Texas and California to serve the severely impacted by diversion of funds growing market for IAQ and mould testing.
to the militarys activities in Iraq and other The new facilities, combined with the overseas locations.
Budget deficits at local expertise and reputation of our subsidiaries state and national levels also reduced P&K Microbiology Services and Aerotech, demand while general enforcement levels create a very strong position in this market.
In addition the US One particularly key initiative is to replace a encountered the worst hurricane season number of individual laboratory information in over 100 years STL has six laboratories management systems with a single standard in the hurricane belt: one in Florida was badly system that covers the whole network.
damaged and all six experienced power outages, service disruption and downtime.
QED Environmental Systems STLs groundwater sampling equipment Against this difficult background, turnover division QED won a $3 million contract was down 4.4% to 162.6 million while profit to supply a major mining and chemicals before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation company in Australia with air stripper and exceptional items was down 30.9% to units, which remove VOCs volatile organic 15.0 million.
Part of the shrinkage can be compounds.
This is the largest contract in attributed to the effect of the dollar exchange QEDs history.
The air strippers are being rate movements but US margins were used in a high profile project to remove severely impacted by pricing pressures legacy contamination from groundwater.
driven by the reduction in demand.
Turnover Top was up 1.9% in the US excluding the impact The UK business Service centres provide convenient local services.
of exchange rates, and by 6.4% in the UK.
Market conditions in the UK were much Profit before interest and tax was 10.9 better than in the US.
The Landfill Directive Above Soil sampling and confirmation testing of million 17.7 million.
created new opportunities and we enjoyed stockpiled materials.
growing demand for contaminated land Serving the customer testing, driven by the development of STLs strategy to combat the current market brownfield construction sites.
The service challenges in the US and return to growth centres in Ireland and Scotland performed is to focus on service standards and further strongly, winning new analytical contracts.
develop strengths in high growth and newly emerging market segments.
In order to Outlook increase penetration in specific locations, Although we do not expect market conditions STL opened eight new service centres in the in the US to ease in 2005 2006, there are US and two in the British Isles.
These service opportunities for growth.
STL expects to centres provide convenient local services carry out increased sediment testing work such as delivery of sample containers and in connection with the initiative to clean up related supplies as well as sample collection the Great Lakes and increased opportunities and shipping.
Some service centres also offer in the IAQ market and food hygiene markets project management and limited analytical are also expected to provide growth.
STL has capabilities and are complemented by other the expertise in place to compete strongly value added products such as the web-based in newly emerging market areas such as MySTL electronic project management system.
testing for endocrine disrupters, perchlorate As well as offering greater convenience to contamination, fragrance allergens, and flame existing customers, these new service centres retardants.
In the UK, legislation like the brought us closer to new clients in the US, Landfill Directive and the Water Framework Scotland and Ireland.
Directive will continue to create growth opportunities.
PROFIT BEFORE INTEREST, TAX, GOODWILL AMORTISATION AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Down 30.9% at 15.0m Goodwill amortisation 4.1 million and exceptional items of nil.
