SEVERN TRENT PLC 16 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS WATER PURIFICATION AND OPERATING SERVICES ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 SEVERN TRENT SERVICES TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Severn Trent Services continued to invest in technology and product development in 2004 2005 that put them at the forefront of emerging markets ranging from water purification and contract operations to water metering and infrastructure projects.
Above Key strengths Tetra Nitrifying Submerged Aerated Filter NSAF and Deep Bed Filter DBF, Crankley Point.
Strong market position and brand recognition Strategy focusing on high margin business opportunities Continually expanding product and technology base Emphasis on cost control and operational efficiency FIND OUT MORE More information on Severn Trent Services is available at: www.
com SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 17 Severn Trent Services comprises two into our ultrafiltration systems.
Throughout Outlook divisions: Water purification and Operating the world, inge is known for its leadership The water purification market will continue services.
The latter includes the Contract and innovation in this rapidly growing market, to grow, and Severn Trent Services strong Operations business, Seven Trent Water so this is an important new relationship.
market position and brand recognition will International, and the smaller Metering enable us to compete vigorously.
There are Services and Pipeline Services businesses.
Operating services good growth opportunities in arsenic Turnover in the Operating services division removal and ultrafiltration and RO membrane Before the impact of exchange rate was 131.4 million, up by 2.5%.
Forthcoming legislation, like US movements, there was overall organic the impact of exchange rates, turnover was regulations on ballast water which come into growth across these businesses.
effect in 2006 2007, will create new openings and margins benefited greatly from the for our Electro Chlorination technology.
restructuring programme and cost controls There was good performance across the implemented in 2002 2003, and our strategy business.
Contract Operations, which carries In the US, budget deficits have worked of focusing on higher margin business.
out operating and maintenance contracts for to the advantage of the Contract operations customers in the US, decreased its turnover business, with states and municipalities Turnover decreased by 1.4% to 208.1 by 0.3% to 75.0 million.
Turnover in US$ relying more heavily on public-private million, but excluding the impact of exchange was up by 8.8%.
Among the contracts partnerships to supply water and waste rates, turnover increased by 5.2%.
Profit announced during 2004 2005 was an eighttreatment services.
before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation year leachate control contract, worth $65 and exceptional items was up 16.5% at million, at Fresh Kills Landfill in New York.
The outlook for Water metering and Contract 19.8 million.
Profit before interest and operations also looks positive.
The strong tax was 21.0 million 13.8 million.
Severn Trent Water International STWI, reputation of both businesses will stand us which provides management and consultancy in good stead as we pursue new contracts Water purification services in Europe and the developing world, and market opportunities.
Turnover in the Water purification division had an excellent year.
The UK Ministry of decreased by 7.5% to 76.7 million.
This Defence awarded a 25 year PFI contract was a result of two main factors: exchange worth approximately 1 billion to a subsidiary movements: and lower revenues in the UK, of STWI, called Coast to Coast Water C2C.
where customers were waiting for the This ground-breaking deal, called Project resolution of the AMP4 process before Aquatrine Package C, is for the provision commissioning new projects.
Excluding of water and wastewater services to the impact of exchange rates, turnover approximately 1,500 MoD sites in England was down by 0.8%.
The US side of the and commenced on 30 March 2005. business performed well, with turnover in US$ up 4.1%.
Turnover at STWI was up by 13.1%.
We continued our work to expand our The Metering services business increased Below product and technology base.
It won a $4 million SmartMeter advanced water metering technology.
our partnership with Lanxess formerly part contract to replace domestic water meters of Bayer AG on our Sorb33 system for in Qatar with its SmartMeter line of meters.
removing arsenic from drinking water to This new global water metering product, cover the industrial and municipal launched in 2003 2004, is well suited to the wastewater sector as well.
We were delighted difficult water conditions in the Middle East, with this agreement, which creates significant so there are good prospects in that market.
Pipeline services turnover was down by We also entered into a new alliance 16.2%.
State and federal budget deficits collaboration with inge AG, to incorporate in the US mean there is limited investment their ultrafiltration UF membrane products in infrastructure projects.
PROFIT BEFORE INTEREST, TAX, GOODWILL AMORTISATION AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Up 16.5% at 19.8m Goodwill amortisation 3.1 million and exceptional credit of 4.3 million.
