The most significant development in these developments.
Once more these United Kingdom the 2004 5 year was the sale of the continental businesses have performed UK operations now involve the UK landfill and related power activities.
robustly despite the prevailing collection and management of This transaction not only transformed depressed economic conditions.
commercial and industrial wastes, the Group balance sheet by reducing treatment and recycling of hazardous debt but also honed the UK operations The last year has been a challenging chemical wastes including high into a smaller clearly focused single one for our staff who have responded temperature incineration.
There is also unit concentrating on future superbly.
a significant activity in contaminated opportunities.
It is strongly believed land and a portfolio of long term that advancing regulatory pressure Group Turnover contracts treating municipal waste from the EU Landfill Directive coupled Turnover from continuing activities of under the Private Finance Initiative.
with steeply rising Landfill Tax will drive 466m, together with a 38m waste from landfill into the newer contribution from the discontinued L&P I am pleased to report that a very higher value added services on which business, brings the total for the year to substantial improvement in the Group will now concentrate.
Continental performance has been delivered as business model already operating in turnover was flat at 304m whilst trading losses of 4.5m have been our continental operations provides the revenue in the UK continuing business turned into trading profits of 1.4m.
example and much of the know-how for improved 5% to 162m 2004: 154m.
The new combined UK operation, 1 4 1.
Operational new vehicles and improvements have been equipment for the ELWA made in the UK PFI contract.
East London logo is now a familiar sight across East London.
Construction on the MBT facilities at Frog Island, East London, has been rapid during the year and is on course for completion in summer 2006.
Waste by rail is an efficient means for transport of bulk waste.
annual report 2005 Shanks Waste Management, has substantially reduced overhead, Shanks in the UK delivered operating efficiencies and The new combined UK operation, Shanks Waste Management, is responding well sold poorly performing businesses and to the changing UK waste market.
An exceptional charge Increases to Landfill Tax and local of 10.4m has been taken to cover the authority waste diversion requirements associated costs.
As the rationalisation are helping to drive the market towards the higher technological solutions programme is continuing there should available to Shanks.
be further significant benefit in the Investment in PFI contracts continues, current year.
underscoring Shanks confidence in the MBT technology available from our strategic partner, Ecodeco.
The largest improvement has been evident in our waste collections business where the performance of some depots is now at industry average.
The remaining challenge is to bring all units to this level.
Upgraded civic amenity at Gerpins Lane, East London.
Aggregates, cans and plastics are all recovered for re-use.
continued United Kingdom continued The Group has now won three contracts Treatment MBT technology developed business enjoyed a strong year as for the long term management of for these applications with our Italian regulations continue to tighten on municipal waste under the Private partner, Ecodeco.
The contract has a landfill disposal.
Similarly, the chemical Finance Initiative.
This year has seen projected revenue of 6m in its first treatment of hazardous waste has significant investment in the existing full year and is already contributing improved modestly.
The incineration Argyll & Bute and East London Waste profits which will increase in a full year.
performance has, however, been Authority contracts.
The investment Construction of the new MBT facilities disappointing with continuing harsh programme in Argyll & Bute is nearing has already commenced.
markets and unplanned maintenance completion and construction at the first shutdowns limiting throughput.
of two major facilities in East London is Belgium Encouragingly, however, the contract well advanced and operations should Operations in Belgium are similar to with the Rural Payments Agency to commence in 2006.
Both projects are those in the UK but exclude high dispose of Meat and Bone Meal from performing to their plans.
temperature incineration and include the BSE cattle crisis has been specialist demolition, industrial extended for a further 15 months to During the year, a 25 year contract to cleaning and landfill.
Share of operating profits serve Dumfries & Galloway reached from joint venture activities has financial close underscoring our Trading profit in the year has risen to increased to 1.8m from 1.6m.
confidence in the Mechanical Biological 16.3m from 15.7m in 2004.
New facility for the sorting and transfer of waste at Charleroi.
Vehicles from the fide Pauw fleet bring recoverable materials for sorting at the Brussels transfer station.
Sand extraction site next to the Mont St. Guibert landfill site provides a habitat for wildlife.
Soil remediation taking place at the new undercover facility at fide Paepe, Gent.
annual report 2005 a creditable performance given the size of last years outstanding contribution Shanks in Belgium from contaminated land remediation.
Shanks Belgium continues to perform well with further growth opportunities being identified.
This year saw increased Following the re-permitting of the production of green electricity from extension to the landfill site at Mont landfill gas.
St. Guibert in early 2004, the site has New recycling facilities have been constructed in Brussels, Charleroi and been able to accept greater volumes of Gent.
The extension to our landfill at waste and, in particular, provide Mont St. Guibert has also allowed disposal capacity to the City of increased volumes to be taken at the Brussels during the shutdown of its site.
incinerator for major planned maintenance.
Profits at the site from electricity generation from landfill gas also advanced whilst results from the processing of hazardous waste reduced as volumes declined in the current market.
Modern transfer stations improve vehicle efficiency.
Chemical analysis of waste is vital to ensuring safe disposal.
Materials recovered for re-use include bricks, tyres and wood.
continued Netherlands waste capacity resulted in enhanced small tuck-in acquisitions.
The first Dutch operations are similar to those throughput.
Sludge treatment volumes quarters profits from the L&P disposal in Belgium but exclude landfill and were, however, less buoyant than in will not recur but it is expected that the demolition and include computer previous years.
continuing UK recovery and increases refurbishment.
Trading profit for the in PFI profits will result in an overall year was broadly flat at 24.0m 2004: Our industrial cleaning unit, Reym, also improvement in the current year.
performed well, a result which would have been still better if not for a single In the next 5 years some 30% of the The recession in the all important substantially loss making contract.
UK market for municipal waste will be construction industry continued tendered as local authorities strive to resulting in pressure on prices and The waste wood processing plant near meet the EU Landfill Directive targets.
volumes in our solid waste business.
Utrecht was commissioned during the The innovative MBT technology is now This, however, was more than offset by year and is now operating successfully.
proven as deliverable in the planning improvements in our business serving arena.
The Group therefore intends to the greenhouse market and the overall Prospects pursue these opportunities vigorously.
performance in our ATM hazardous Our continental businesses are waste processing facility.
Recent performing well and have interesting The already announced Landfill Tax investments in soil cleaning and paint expansion opportunities, including increases will further encourage new 1 4 1.
Transport of materials large fleet to support its by water forms an collection and recycling integral part of the operations.
The expanded ATM soil treatment plant has seen increased activity this year.
Icova have been testing new vehicle configurations to improve operational efficiencies.
Below ground compacting collection containers ready for use in high density housing.
annual report 2005 recycling and recovery technologies for commercial and industrial waste.
The Shanks in the technologies currently employed in the Netherlands Netherlands are transferable to the UK Operations in the Netherlands continue to meet this demand as it emerges.
Recycling of materials from the sizeable greenhouse Overall the Group is well placed to market continues to increase and our compete in its growing markets.
facilities serving the hazardous waste and industrial cleaning markets have seen more activity.
Investment in a new wood processing plant was completed successfully.
Further expansion opportunities are being pursued.
Reym industrial cleaning vehicles visit customer facilities as part of planned maintenance contracts.
Sorted, compacted and baled plastics make onward transportation for recycling easy.
