Operating Associated British Foods plc review Operating review This has been a year of very significant change for the group.
we now have a truly global coverage with commercial operations in 41 countries.
These strong results are the consequence improved extraction rates from a smaller Our existing ingredients businesses underwent of the success of Primark, good progress crop than last year.
a year of change and consolidation.
SPIs food in most of our other existing businesses, polyols business returned to a more normal and satisfactory contributions from our Our agriculture business in the UK made level of profitability after benefiting from recent acquisitions.
good progress in an enduringly difficult spectacular growth last year, driven by the market.
The combination of our grain trading high consumer demand for low carbohydrate Primark has had a great year in which business with that of Cargill in a new joint products.
During the year we integrated our it not only produced excellent sales and venture in which we have a 50% interest is existing bakery ingredients business with profit growth in a difficult high street trading expected to deliver enhanced performance our newly acquired bakers yeast business, environment, but also acquired new stores through the provision of a more comprehensive AB Mauri, and we consolidated the yeast from Allders and Littlewoods that will increase range of products and services.
Our business extracts operation with the rest of our its retail selling space by 60%.
None of in China performed extremely well, producing ingredients business.
This reorganisation 06 these new stores had commenced trading and selling 30% more feed than last year and has been successful.
by the end of the financial year.
It enjoyed delivering strong profit growth.
enthusiastic and deserved attention in the Our bakers yeast business delivered a fashion and national press, all of which Our bakery businesses in the UK and poor performance in the large US market helped cement this remarkable business Australia both had difficult years.
However, which masked the very good progress made in the consciousness of clothes shoppers in the UK, the imminent relaunch of elsewhere.
The problems in the US will not in the UK and Ireland.
our premium brand, Kingsmill Gold, and be cured overnight but we have already made significant improvements to our supply chain good progress and expect to be able to report British Sugar faced difficult market give us confidence for the future.
In Australia, better results next year.
conditions in both the UK and Poland our new bakery at Chullora in Sydney is now as a consequence of over-supply of sugar, complete and contributing to a much lower This has been a year of very significant following the accession of new member cost base.
This is a magnificent asset that change for the group.
The purchase of the states to the EU.
Operationally the company will benefit our company for years to come.
yeast business has extended our international performed extremely well achieving record reach and we now have a truly global production at Wissington and a consistently Our other grocery businesses all made coverage with commercial operations in good performance from the whole business.
The Twinings and Ovaltine 41 countries around the world.
These include Of equal importance was the continuing brands both had an excellent year of substantial businesses throughout Latin improvement in its health and safety sales and profit growth, and Ryvita made America, excellent ingredient distribution performance.
The manufacturing cost base similar progress, growing the market and capability in India and real critical mass of British Sugar is already the lowest in the successfully launching new products.
in China where we now employ over 7,000 EU and, with further investment in both the The Billingtons range of specialist retail people.
We now have significantly more UK and Poland, it will become lower still.
sugars contributed to the development options for further development.
This reality, together with our belief that of the Silver Spoon business, and Westmill the market for sugar in Europe post-reform Foods recovered well from last years After years of remarking that Primarks growth will be in balance, gives us confidence disappointments.
In North America, ACH was constrained by the limited availability that our European sugar operations have successfully integrated the newly acquired of new sites, we were presented this year a profitable future.
Our sugar business in consumer yeast and herbs & spices with exceptional opportunities, firstly with China recorded its highest ever profit as businesses, both of which performed the closure of Allders and then the sale prices firmed and good factory performance ahead of expectations.
Clearly we have a very real Operating Annual Report and Accounts 2005 review Group key performance indicators 2005 2004 % Sales m 5,622 5,165 9 Adjusted operating profit m 565 478 18 Adjusted earnings per share 53.0p 46.6p 14 Dividends 18.0p 16.4p 10 Cash generated before acquisitions and disposals m 92 227 Net investment in new businesses m 1,140 204 George Weston Chief Executive challenge to refit and staff 47 substantial stores and 1.5 million square feet of additional selling space.
However, when that is successfully accomplished Primark will not only be an even more important part of the group, but will also be a very significant force in clothes retailing in the UK and Ireland.
Although final agreement on reform of the EU sugar regime is not yet agreed, we are already beginning to see the consequences of that reform as businesses within Europe 07 position themselves for the post-reform years.
We have spent several years preparing ourselves for a future where sugar represents a smaller proportion of our portfolio.
That future is now upon us.
The Chairman has mentioned the contribution our people make to our success and I echo his thanks.
We make a valuable economic and social contribution to every community where we are present and I am pleased that we are able to publish, this year, our initial global health, safety and environment report.
I am proud and thankful to be part of a company in which so many amazing people, all around the world, work every day to produce and sell safe, high quality and good value products.
George Weston Chief Executive Associated British Foods plc Grocery Operating review continued Grocery 08 Grocery Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Growing up with Ovaltine Ovaltine has enjoyed double digit sales growth in all three of its key Asian markets, China, Thailand and the Philippines.
In Thailand, where it leads the market, it is specifically formulated with malt extract and nine essential nutrients known to be important in Thai childrens diets.
Grocery key performance indicators 2005 2004 % Sales m 2,608 2,446 7 Adjusted operating profit m 188 160 18 Operating profit margin 7.2% 6.5% Return on average capital employed 22.3% 21.5% Our international grocery businesses grew second half of the year.
The Karo syrup brand 09 sales by 7% to 2,608m and profit by 18% in Mexico was also acquired.
These increases were driven by the successfully launched in the US and marketed contribution from acquisitions: the US herbs to the Hispanic population.
& spices business, Fleischmann yeast in the US, a full year benefit of Capullo in Our global hot beverages brands, Twinings Mexico and Billingtons sugar in the UK.
and Ovaltine, achieved strong sales and profit In addition, there was strong growth from growth supported by a significant investment Twinings and Ovaltine.
However, profits in brand marketing and new products over were held back by reduced margins in the last two years.
This included double digit the Australian bakery business which growth for Twinings in the UK and US and experienced tough competitive pressure.
for Ovaltine in its three key Asian markets: China, Thailand and the Philippines.
In the Our North American grocery business, UK, Twinings launched its Everyday tea aimed ACH, significantly increased its scale with at the premium mainstream segment of the the acquisitions of the herbs & spices and market and it has been very well received Fleischmann consumer yeast business in the by both the trade and consumers.
Sales, marketing and the supply chain of range was relaunched with new packaging these businesses have been fully integrated with groupings of Classics, Light Classics, with our existing branded grocery businesses Aromatics and flavoured teas designed for and are now headquartered in a new office better accessibility for the consumer.
Both of these acquisitions have rationalisation of the tea supply chain is exceeded our expectation in their first year.
underway which will significantly reduce the Mazola improved its margins with lower soy manufacturing cost base.
Tea blending and and corn oil prices and focused marketing packing will concentrate on four sites with helped to increase volumes by 2% over last the closure of plants in France and the US year.
In Mexico, the sales, marketing and and the establishment of a new factory in distribution infrastructure was established to Shanghai, which has been commissioned.
support Capullo, the premium canola oil brand, A rationalisation charge of 7m has been and the brand improved its market share in the included in these accounts.
Associated British Foods plc Grocery Operating review continued Grocery Expanding US brand portfolio ACH continues to leverage its US sales, marketing New bakery in Sydney, Australia and distribution infrastructure with an expanding George Weston Foods giant new bakery at portfolio of value added edible oils and packaged Chullora began production in March and will be grocery products through the retail, club and fully commissioned by the end of 2005. foodservice channels.
10 Grocery Annual Report and Accounts 2005 300 years of tea Healthy eating Twinings Everyday tea is launched Unrivalled heritage in beverages Kingsmill is helping consumers get healthier by Twinings has added an everyday blend to its range This year Ovaltine celebrated its centenary.
combining its Calcium & White, and Vitamins of teas and infusions.
Its a refreshing tea that is full Next year Twinings will celebrate 300 years & White products as Wonder White.
Ideal for drinking at any time of the day.
Silver Spoon, the only UK brand to offer the Allied Bakeries in the UK was affected by lower full range of sweetening solutions, maintained than expected pricing and volumes although Responding its position as brand leader.
Light granulated Kingsmill branded volumes increased.
sugar is the leader in its category and to consumers continued to grow.
Billingtons, the UKs There was further progress in our ethnic foods leading supplier of unrefined cane sugars, business with a strong increase in sales of diverse tastes grew strongly this year and has now been the Blue Dragon brand both in the UK and fully integrated and the benefits realised.
For the first time the brand was supported by television advertising in the Our ethnic foods business meets Good volume and profit growth was achieved UK which proved to be successful.
the needs of local ethnic communities in the UK, and consumers of all by Ryvita.
It is the UKs leading crispbread backgrounds enthusiastic to try the brand and its innovation has driven growth Westmill Foods delivered strong profit growth.
11 exotic tastes of the East.
in the cracker and crispbread market as Its ethnic brands in rice, flour and noodles consumers seek new and healthier snack grew in both volume and margin and the Blue Dragon foods.
A premium wholeseed crispbread range new plant in Manchester is performing well.
The Blue Dragon brand encompasses was launched in June featuring two varieties: Pride Oils was acquired in the latter part of over 200 products.
These are distributed pumpkin seed and sunflower seed.
Pride is a leading brand of edible in major supermarkets, cash and carry continued to develop its wider positioning as oils which is sold to ethnic wholesalers wholesale, independents and foodservice a healthy eating snack brand with the and its addition strengthens our existing as well as export markets.
The range establishment of Ryvita Minis which saw strong competence and expertise in this sector.
consists of a unique mixture of growth in the year supported by television mainstream Oriental products such as advertising and the launch of new flavours.
sweet chilli dipping sauce and oyster and spring onion stir fry sauce and more In Australia, margins in the bread business exotic and unusual ingredients such were reduced as a result of continued as Magic paste and Firm Silken Tofu.
competitive pressure in the market and the commissioning costs of the new bakery Westmill Foods in west Sydney.
This new bakery not only Westmill Foods is the leading supplier replaces the Fairfield bakery which was of foods to the ethnic wholesale sector.
It supplies ethnic communities as well destroyed by fire in 2002 and the Chatswood as Indian and Chinese restaurants, and bakery but also provides additional capacity Westmill brands inspire significant to supply the New South Wales market.
Products include rice, flour, Two bread lines and one roll line are now noodles and edible oils under brands operational and we expect the final phase such as Tolly Boy rice, Asli flour, of commissioning, which comprises packing Lucky Boat noodles, and Pride and distribution, to be completed by the edible oils.
Westmill has also invested end of the year.
We expect the improved in developing convenience products efficiencies to flow from the beginning of such as microwaveable rice in pouches 2006.
Improvements in meat and dairy for leading retail brands such as Blue operating performance were held back Dragon, Ken Hom and Pataks.
by lower volumes to the major retailers.
Primary food Associated British Foods plc & agriculture Operating review continued Primary food & agriculture 12 Primary food Annual Report and Accounts 2005 & agriculture Customer led innovation British Sugars Food Centre is dedicated to working alongside customers to develop special sugars for special applications.
Icecraft is a finely milled sugar for a brighter, whiter and smoother sugar paste for very special occasions.
Primary food & agriculture key performance indicators 2005 2004 % Sales m 1,541 1,672 -8 Adjusted operating profit m 187 189 -1 Operating profit margin 12.1% 11.3% Return on average capital employed 23.6% 24.0% Sales fell by 8% to 1,541m and profit fell balance between supply and demand within 13 by 1% to 187m.
As expected there was the EU in 2004 5.
The consequent surplus a decline in profit at British Sugar in the of quota sugar severely pressured prices in UK but this was virtually offset by a strong many member states and led to lower value increase in profit from our overseas sugar of exports of excess sugar onto the world operations in Poland and particularly China market.
The Commission has sought to rectify and from our animal feeds businesses.
Sales this imbalance in the coming year by invoking declined primarily as a result of the sale of a temporary quota cut of 1.8 million tonnes the UK arable business to Frontier, the joint across the EU and our share of this is 91,000 venture established with Cargill.
tonnes in the UK and Poland combined.
In the UK, British Sugar had another good British Sugar Overseas improved its campaign with 1.39 million tonnes of sugar performance substantially over the produced.
The crop proved to be high previous year.
yielding and the UK performance was second in the European league for agricultural The full year benefits of accession came efficiency.
Commercially there were further through in Poland albeit to a lesser extent improvements in its product range and service than anticipated due to the impact of the performance.
However, profit declined as a over-supply of sugar in the EU and the result of the over-supply of sugar in the EU strength of the zloty relative to the euro.
this year and higher energy prices.
Operational performance was strong and good progress was made in the first phase The EU saw the accession of ten new of a two-year capital development programme member states in May 2004, which at the to bring standards of efficiency and product point of entry also became members of the quality at the Glinojeck sugar factory up to European sugar regime.
In anticipation of the standards of the best in Europe.
the associated increase in sugar prices in the new member states it is now clear that Our sugar business in China had its best year sugar stocks were increased.
There were yet, driven by strong market conditions and no temporary quota cuts to maintain the consistent plant operations.
Crop volumes Primary food Associated British Foods plc & agriculture Operating review continued Primary food & agriculture Expansion in China British Sugar is a major supplier to Chinas rapidly growing soft drinks industry.
It understands and provides the quality and service standards the international brands demand and is expanding capacity at its four plants to meet mounting demand.
14 Primary food Annual Report and Accounts 2005 & agriculture 1bn invested by British Sugar Animal feeds growth Developments in Poland Investment for the future With increased prosperity in China comes consumer Accession to the EU last year brought increased Over the last two decades British Sugar has demand for protein foods like pork and poultry.
British Sugar Overseas is invested around 1bn in the UK in new technology ABNA is constructing a new feed mill in South in the process of investing in its Glinojeck factory, to improve efficiency and quality and to reduce Hunang to meet the growing requirement for quality Polands largest, to raise it to best practice standards impact on the environment.
were again lower due to adverse weather introduced and there have been investments conditions but good factory performance in retail sugars in Poland.
Work is underway One of the EUs improved extraction rates and restricted the to examine ways of reducing the cost base overall decrease in sugar production.
We believe that these steps most efficient continued to rise during the year as the strengthen British Sugars leadership position market reacted to the smaller crop and ahead of reform.
producers increased consumption of sugar and there was an improvement in margins.
Trading ABNA, our agriculture group, delivered its relationships continue to be built with major best ever result despite a difficult market industrial customers in China who demand for its UK pig and poultry feeds.
In June 2005 the European Commission high quality and consistent service levels.
published its proposals for the reform The animal feeds business in China delivered of the EU sugar regime.
Yet to be 15 Draft detailed proposals for the reform a strong performance.
This success followed considered by the European Parliament, of the EU sugar regime were tabled to the the buyout of our joint venture partners, these proposals will affect our sugar European Parliament and Council of Ministers expansion into new regions by leasing mills, operations in the UK and in Poland.
We welcome the inclusion and a strong demand for our products as a of a restructuring scheme which proposes result of a government and industry drive to Under the proposed new regime, to establish a fund, by levy on the industry improve food safety.
which will run from 2006 7 until lasting three years, to provide compensation 2014 5, there will be a reduction to processors wishing to relinquish quota In the UK, pig and poultry feeds faced in the reference price of sugar and to the Commission.
By this mechanism, the a very difficult year due to manufacturing a restructuring scheme, funded by Commission expects to achieve the necessary over-capacity and much higher energy a levy on the beet industry, that will industry restructuring without mandatory costs which affected both production and deliver a reduction in EU production.
However, a more significant cut distribution.
Strong market shares were There are no mandatory quota cuts.
in the sugar reference price is proposed with achieved.
The British Standards Institutes a bigger associated cut in beet prices.
Much ISO International Environmental Standard One of the EUs most efficient debate and negotiation will be forthcoming was obtained at all ten feed mills in the producers, British Sugar has the before a final resolution is concluded.
We UK, which will help to reduce compliance option of purchasing 83,000 tonnes expect some volatility in pricing over the next costs significantly within the framework of of quota for its UK business and few years but our best estimate of the effect the new Integrated Pollution and Prevention 10,000 tonnes for its Polish business.
of these proposals will be a reduction in Control regulations.
Good performances operating profit from our sugar operations were delivered by the food ingredients and by some 40m per annum in the long run.
provide a more comprehensive range of British Sugar is now well prepared to deal In April we completed the sale of Allied Grain products and services to customers across with the outcome of reform.
The improvements to a new joint venture with Cargill which will the UK.
at Glinojeck in Poland are underway and the trade as Frontier.
The joint venture is a major installation of the UKs first bioethanol plant purchaser and supplier of cereals and oil is expected to be complete by late 2006. seeds in the UK and is also a leading supplier Commercially a number of new products of seed and fertiliser to the UK farming targeted at specific customers have been community.
The creation of Frontier will Associated British Foods plc Ingredients Operating review continued Ingredients 16 Ingredients Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Cheese bread, a Brazilian passion The Brazilians love their cheese bread.
They eat it for breakfast, before lunch as an appetiser and as a snack at any time of the day.
Of the 47,000 tonnes consumed annually half is home baked and half ready to eat through catering and foodservice outlets.
AB Mauri is the leading supplier of pre-mixes to the bakery sector and is entering the home baking sector with a Fleischmann branded product.
Ingredients key performance indicators 2005 2004 % Sales m 603 294 105 Adjusted operating profit m 72 36 100 Operating profit margin 11.9% 12.2% Return on average capital employed 23.6% 28.2% The acquisition of the international The profit of AB Mauri is lower than we 17 bakers yeast and ingredients business expected at the time of acquisition.
As and a strong performance from enzymes led previously reported, higher molasses, energy to a doubling of sales and profit to 603m and distribution costs have affected the and 72m respectively.
In many countries, increased prices have recovered this increase in input costs Following the acquisition, a new but, in North America and Turkey, we were organisation, AB Mauri, was established unable to pass on these costs because of and the groups existing bakery ingredients significant over-capacity in these markets.
operations were integrated with those Growth was achieved in the South American acquired.
A development team was created and Eastern Asian markets, particularly China.
to ensure the transfer of best practice and Rationalisation of factories in India and Brazil technology between all of the international cost 2m and the benefit of this will be businesses.
Bakery ingredients was realised next year.
strengthened during the year with the acquisition of a business specialising in Investment this year included the opening enzyme applications technology.
It brings of a new factory in western China in Xinjiang a strong innovation and development and expansion in two further plants in China, capability in enzyme functionality research one in India and another in Vietnam is and a team well placed to commercialise underway.
The relocation of the factory high value bakery ingredients, initially in New Zealand is also in progress.
in the large US plant bakery market and thereafter worldwide.
Associated British Foods plc Ingredients Operating review continued Ingredients AB Mauri opens new Chinese factory Yeast consumption is growing by 10% each year and the new factory in Xinjiang, Western China joins AB Mauris four eastern yeast plants and its two bakery ingredient operations.
18 Ingredients Annual Report and Accounts 2005 45plants in 24 countries Enzymes.
Natures catalysts Very tasty International scale Among their almost universal application, enzymes Yeast extracts are used as natural savoury flavourings The AB Mauri business gives us a global presence are the natural way to give wine fuller flavour, for snacks, soups, sauces and ready meals.
with leading positions in the growth regions of colour and clarity.
The newly acquired yeast extracts business performed ahead of expectations.
Yeast extracts Further development is expected following the strengthening of management and add flavour a greater focus on research and development.
Shortly after the year end we acquired a leading US manufacturer of whey protein concentrates and isolates.
We have integrated recently acquired Its target is the fast growing protein yeast extract businesses in Germany and speciality market where key customer the US into our expanding specialised applications are nutritional, particularly food ingredients portfolio.
dietary supplements and sport nutrition.
19 Its expertise in people, products and Both businesses produce yeast extract technology complement the existing as a flavour enhancer for a wide range capabilities of the yeast extracts business.
Their food technologists work with customers to produce natural Speciality lipids delivered a solid sales flavour solutions to precise specifications.
performance with medium chain triglyceride sales in the US achieving their highest level.
These operations are characterised In the US, the food polyol business saw by their strong product innovation, skill good recovery in the second half of the year in customer application and first rate following the reduced market demand for manufacturing technology.
polyols in low carbohydrate foods earlier in the year.
The pharma ingredients business performed well with strong growth in sales of polyol excipients and antacids.
Growth in enzyme sales has been led by the bakery and feed sectors and geographically the strongest areas for growth have been Asia Pacific and Eastern Europe.
The sale of enzymes to AB Mauri has developed in line with our acquisition model.
Associated British Foods plc Retail Operating review continued Retail 20 Retail Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Fashion success Primark brings the latest fashion trends to the high street at affordable prices.
This year it has won industry awards for best value retailer.
Retail key performance indicators 2005 2004 % Sales m 1,006 858 17 Adjusted operating profit m 140 108 30 Operating profit margin 13.9% 12.6% Like-for-like sales growth 9% 6% 2 Retail square footage million ft 2.5 2.3 9 Primark, our value clothing retailer, has A Primark opening has become 21 recorded another excellent performance.
something of an event and during the year Profits increased 30% on sales ahead new stores opened in Sunderland, Lincoln, of last year by 17% which is all the more Leeds, Kingston upon Thames, Dundrum remarkable given the difficult trading and Mullingar.
We continued to develop environment this year on the UK more selling space at existing stores with high street.
extensions opening in Watford, Wrexham, Wakefield, Gloucester, Belfast, Drogheda Like-for-like sales for the year increased and Cork.
Four stores were closed following by 9% and were particularly strong in the relocations to larger stores or as a result second half.
Sales further benefited from of a compulsory purchase order.
By the year the additional retail selling space from new end we were trading from 122 stores and store openings and extensions to existing 2.5 million square feet of retail selling space stores.
The improvement in margin reflects in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
better purchasing and favourable currency exchange rates.
The store opening programme for the first half of the new financial year will add Consumer awareness of the value of the 0.3 million square feet and includes most Primark offering has dramatically increased of the stores acquired from Allders in the this year.
This has been reflected in the first half of the year.
Leicester and Lakeside extensive coverage given to Primark in local Thurrock have already opened and other new and national press and fashion magazines.
stores will open in Dundalk, Bromley, Hull, Cardiff and Oxford.
Extensions will be made to a number of locations, most notably a doubling of the space at Hammersmith.
Associated British Foods plc Retail Operating review continued Retail Primark comes to town The opening of a new Primark store is something of a local event as here in Leicester.
This is a scene which will be repeated throughout this year and next as new stores already in the pipeline are refitted and launched.
22 Retail Annual Report and Accounts 2005 12,000 employees On the high street Styles for everyone A great place to work Prime high street locations have proved a winning There are value for money ranges for all the family.
Primark and Penneys employ over 12,000 people formula for Primark.
The Manchester store covers in the UK and Ireland.
100,000 square feet of sales area.
On 1 November 2005 the main warehouse This investment programme will result which supplies Primark in the UK was in a 60% increase in the selling space of Everybodys destroyed by a fire.
The management Primark from 2.5 million square feet today team responded well and, working with to over 4 million square feet at the beginning talking about suppliers and our logistics provider, of 2007.
We believe that there will be alternative arrangements were quickly made opportunities to expand the estate further.
Primark to continue the supply of stock to UK stores.
The business in Ireland was unaffected since it is supplied by a separate warehouse.
The Sunday Times, Style Magazine, In July we completed the acquisition of 24 July 2005 Littlewoods stores which comprised an Streets Ahead 23 estate of 120 premises.
This was a unique Primark got an eye for a trend opportunity to acquire a portfolio of large and that, coupled with its rock-bottom stores in attractive high street locations.
prices, has made it a destination for We intend to close the Littlewoods business every style-savvy girl.
in early January 2006 and its trading to date has been in line with our expectation at the The Daily Mail, 27 July 2005 time of acquisition.
A provision of 47m has been made in these accounts for the full Why Primark is the new Prada business closure costs.
High-fashion looks from a low-budget store?
Well Vogue magazine thinks so We intend to refurbish and refit 41 of these stores as Primark adding a further 1.2 million The Observer, 10 July 2005 square feet of selling space from spring 2006 The lure of thrift luxe until early 2007.
The capital expenditure Fashion assistants on glossy magazines is expected to be some 250m bringing the are expected to look fabulous on total investment, net of disposals, to some distinctly junior pay.
Thank heavens 500m and the operating profit return is for Primark!
expected to exceed the groups pre-tax cost of capital in the first full year of trading.
The Daily Mirror, 12 July 2005 Of the remaining 79 stores, agreement Why we all adore Primark has already been reached to sell over half Now you can have guiltless shopping: with completion agreed for early 2006. full bags for 20.
Negotiations to dispose of the remaining stores continue and there has been a high degree of interest in the sale process.
