6 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 Operating review equipment developed and deployed for telecommunications networks.
Communications million 2005 2004 Change % Our solutions test the performance, functionality and conformance of telecoms devices.
We provide effective and efficient test and measurement Revenue capabilities to meet the needs of voice, video, data and mobile testing to Performance Analysis 178.8 176.8 1 reduce risk in deploying new products in the next-generation xed line and Service Assurance 42.8 74.7 43 wireless networks.
We achieve this by simulating real-world conditions in Communications group 221.6 251.5 12 the laboratories of our customers, subjecting the equipment under test to impairment and stress to establish their true capability.
The increasing scale Operating profit loss and complexity of devices combined with the necessity to increase the Performance Analysis 22.0 21.7 1 efficiency of our customers engineers, drives demand for more innovative Service Assurance 9.6 2.5 test solutions.
Our emphasis on customer support and professional services Communications group 12.4 24.2 49 are important differentiators, giving Spirent Communications a leading reputation in the market and distinct competitive advantage.
Return on sales % Performance Analysis 12.3 12.3 Revenue and operating profit in the Performance Analysis division grew by Service Assurance 3.3 1 per cent in 2005.
We invested 42.1 million, representing 24 per cent of Communications group 5.6 9.6 sales 2004 43.2 million and 24 per cent, into product development to increase the capabilities of our existing products and develop innovative Our Communications group, Spirent Communications, works behind the products for launch in 2005 and 2006. scenes to help the world communicate faster, better and more efficiently.
The market proved to be volatile and highly competitive during 2005.
At the The worlds leading communications companies use Spirent solutions to interim stage we reported that market conditions were variable due to lower conduct performance analysis tests in labs on their latest technologies.
As spending by the US government and certain US service providers.
As new communications services are introduced Spirent provides the tools to expected the variable conditions continued through the second half year.
facilitate troubleshooting and improve the quality of these new networks and services.
As announced in December, revenue for the third quarter was lower than previously expected, although this was partly offset by improved trading in Revenue and operating profit in the Performance Analysis division was the fourth quarter.
We experienced slower demand in 2005 due to activity slightly up.
In this division we experienced variability in terms of end levels with US service providers being markedly lower, a result of the impact customer demand principally in the third quarter and in the broadband test of merger activity in the sector, and the fact that other customers were activities, with the divisions wireless and position location test activities absorbing the high levels of equipment they purchased in 2004.
In addition experiencing good growth.
there was a notable slowdown in the demand for ATM test equipment, In 2005 the operating loss in the Service Assurance division, although whilst the US government also shifted its spending to other priorities.
Finally, substantially reduced in the second half year, affected the performance of some major equipment manufacturers continue to work their way through the Communications group as a whole.
strategic reviews, resulting in further cutting back of their research and development programmes.
Indeed, revenue in the Service Assurance division was down 43 per cent compared with 2004 and the division reported an operating loss of In contrast, more favourable conditions were seen in the demand for: 9.6 million.
The reduced revenues were principally a result of the decline security testing across all market segments, high speed Ethernet devices, in leased line monitoring and the delay in installation of next-generation Gig E and 10 Gig E, requirements for increased scale and the emerging assurance solutions.
Firm and significant actions were taken in this division needs for triple play testing and video quality testing.
The transition of in the first half year to reduce the rate of loss.
access and metro networks to Ethernet, saw expansion in demand, particularly in the first half year.
Wireless infrastructure testing has expanded Performance Analysis from functional test to performance test, stimulating demand for our Our Performance Analysis division addresses the needs of service providers, products.
The emergence of IMS is also creating new opportunities for equipment manufacturers, large enterprises and government to test the Spirent Communications.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 7 Despite the strength of demand for Ethernet test equipment aggressive as Spirent TestCenter and our wireless handset test solutions, offer leadingactions by competition resulted in some loss of market share in this sector.
We expect to see the benefit from market growth as We have responded by establishing a major customer support team, to offer our customers increase their investment in latest technologies.
2006 will both additional services and to launch new leading-edge product solutions be a period of product transition as the increased capability of our new during the second half year.
Internally we are progressing our initiatives to products enable us to gain market share against a background of continued increase our own product development efficiency and effectiveness to variable market conditions.
improve our product realisation process.
The launch of Spirent TestCenter, our unied platform for Ethernet testing, has resulted in key competitive Service Assurance wins with major existing as well as new customers.
Our development plans Our Service Assurance division is focused on the development of network for Spirent TestCenter throughout the next 18 months will deliver increased monitoring systems to enable telecom service providers to test and assure functionality, scale, ease of use and automation, making it an industry broadband leased line, DSL and IP services.
Our products include operations support systems software, remote test Total revenues from our top 20 customers grew year-on-year and account probes, network access systems and consulting and technical services.
We for approximately 40 per cent of revenues: growth rates for a number of also supply portable systems for fault identification and test of copper these accounts exceeded 30 per cent.
No one customer represented more telephone lines in the eld.
Our systems help service providers reduce their than 10 per cent of the total divisional revenues.
Our revenues by customer operational costs by automating and centralising their network testing and type maintained a similar prole.
Sales to network equipment manufacturers service assurance processes, reducing the need for expensive engineering represented 49 per cent of the total: sales to service providers of 17 per cent: intervention and facilitating faster responses to customers problems.
government accounted for 8 per cent down compared to 2004.
The Our product solutions are based on a solid business case which offers remainder includes chip manufacturers and enterprise customers.
carriers increased operational efficiencies whilst ensuring the quality of the On a geographic basis there was growth in revenue in Europe for all test voice, video and data services they provide.
solutions, but notably for VoIP, web applications and wireless handset test The global telecoms sector continues to migrate from legacy networks systems.
The US market was at, for the reasons described above.
Activity towards IP-based networks and services, which will result in substantial new in the Asia Pacific region grew, building on a remarkable growth rate, investment.
The shift in carriers capital expenditure has been slower than particularly in China in 2004.
We maintained revenue levels in Japan, despite expected for service assurance solutions for the deployment of triple play difficult market conditions.
We enjoyed strong growth in the Indian market.
We believe that the service assurance market opportunity will develop Our wireless and positioning test products had a record year and sales now once the build out has taken place and these new services are launched.
represent 27 per cent of the divisions turnover.
All product lines achieved Following a very tough first six months of 2005, when we reported a fall in strong growth: CDMA, W-CDMA and GPS.
We gained market share in the the divisions revenues of over half and an operating loss of 9.0 million, we important W-CDMA performance test market and made further strong achieved stability during the second half, having realised the substantial progress in the sale of GPS emulation systems.
Revenues grew in the most cost savings announced in the first half.
We have developed a new strategy important markets in Asia, namely China, Korea and Japan and we also made for growth to meet the needs of service providers for their new triple play good progress in Europe.
We have established and opened wireless service networks and services.
In addition, we have developed a new generation of centres in China, Korea, Japan and UK, offering higher levels of customer handheld test equipment, which will enable eld test engineers to access service and support.
We specified, developed and launched a new HSDPAthe power of the central ofce test and monitoring systems in the eld.
capable network emulator for the W-CDMA market.
Spirents navigation and positioning test division has been selected to supply key test equipment The revenue prole by customer has remained comparable with 2004, with to support the joint EU and European Space Agency Galileo project.
Galileo over half of the activity being with US Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers.
is a major new global navigation system.
Spirent is a leader in navigation The provision of leased line assurance products accounted for approximately and positioning test.
70 per cent of sales throughout the year, whilst the provision of service maintenance and support accounted for 15 per cent.
The second half As we look forward into 2006 and the future, we feel increased confidence operating loss of 0.6 million reduced signicantly from the first half loss that our Performance Analysis solutions, in the form of new products such 8 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 Operating review continued of 9.0 million.
This was due to higher revenue of 2.4 million, a gross profit Discontinued operations improvement from a favourable product mix as we shipped software at Network Products million 2005 2004 Change % higher margins in the second half, and the realisation of cost savings.
Revenue 205.5 187.8 9 Sales opportunities for this division were constrained in 2005 partly as a Operating profit 25.3 21.3 19 result of the major acquisitions made by our customers, which has delayed Return on sales % 12.3 11.3 the sourcing of service assurance solutions as they integrated their businesses.
In the long term, this industry consolidation is likely to be Discontinued operations relate to the HellermannTyton Division, comprising beneficial as we aim to extend our embedded solutions and sell new the Network Products group and the investment in associated companies.
solutions for triple play, eld test and advanced business services into these enlarged customers.
In addition, sales decreased due to a rapid shift in We announced in December that we had entered into an agreement to technology, whilst customers were not yet ready to install next-generation dispose of the HellermannTyton Division to funds controlled by Doughty assurance solutions.
Hanson & Co Limited and this disposal was completed on 15 February 2006.
We were awarded our first triple play contract with TELUS, a major Canadian The Network Products group delivered a strong performance in 2005, with telecoms company, our first customer win outside the US for DSL and for revenue of 205.5 million, up 9 per cent compared with 2004.
Operating advanced broadband service assurance solutions.
profit of 25.3 million was ahead by 19 per cent over 2004, and return on sales improved to 12.3 per cent from 11.3 per cent.
We have concentrated on developing new solutions for triple play and advanced business services.
Whilst we remain cautious about the timing of Organic growth was achieved in all regions and also through the associated the full scale deployment of advanced services by carriers worldwide, we company in Japan.
The business continued to increase its automotive sales believe that, due to the actions taken in 2005, we are well placed to serve despite attening production levels by the European car manufacturers, the market requirements as they develop.
and to achieve strong growth through its initiatives in North America in automatic application systems, particularly in automotive and through the Systems success of its pre-terminated structured cabling system, RapidNet.
million 2005 2004 Change % Profit after tax from discontinued operations was 13.2 million after Revenue 37.7 31.3 20 charging 6.7 million of costs related to the disposal of this business, Operating profit 4.4 3.4 29 compared with 17.3 million in 2004.
Return on sales % 11.7 10.9 Figures in the above table relate to PG Drives Technology only.
Divested businesses contributed 4.4 million of revenue and 0.6 million of operating profit in 2004.
The Systems group comprises PG Drives Technology, a leading supplier of control systems for electrically powered medical and small industrial vehicles.
Revenue and operating profit were up 20 per cent and 29 per cent, respectively.
Return on sales increased to 11.7 per cent compared with 10.9 per cent in 2004.
During 2005 we launched two new wheelchair control systems: the VR2, low cost, mainstream wheelchair control system, and the R-net, a highly sophisticated wheelchair system, designed for the rehab market that can incorporate a wide variety of input and output devices to suit many different disabilities.
Due to the competitiveness of these systems and of our established VSI, S-Drive and TRIO products, we were successful in increasing customer penetration in both the mobility and industrial vehicles Operating profit loss and return on sales are used by the Group as key measures of markets during the year.
This was achieved in spite of continuing constraints operating performance and are stated in the text before the effect of material one-time in US government healthcare funding for powered wheelchairs.
We also items, goodwill impairment and share-based payment so that period-on-period comparisons moved some more of our production to China to reduce the logistical are not distorted.
costs of supporting our activities in the Asia Pacic region.
In 2006 we are The HellermannTyton Division for the purposes of these results has been presented as a planning further new product launches that will enable us to strengthen our discontinued operation and our financial results are presented and discussed for the position in both our addressed markets.
continuing Spirent Group, unless otherwise stated.
