Operating Review The continuing improvement in market Operating conditions combining a strengthening in Review demand for our land rig fleet, an increase in activity in the UK North Sea and further opportunities for KCA DEUTAG in all of its geographic locations is leading to across the board growth and improvement in the outlook for the Groups operations.
A major growth area continues to be Russia Onshore Operations where, during the year, T2000, a high capacity In 2005, the Group increased its land rig fleet integrated drilling unit, completed two from forty-five owned rigs to fifty-one, with contracts and is currently mobilising for three further rigs being managed and, at the a third.
The Group also commenced operating same time, maintained utilisation across the two new Russian built drilling units for Salym fleet to a level in excess of 85%.
At the year Petroleum Development, a joint venture end, the Group also had eight rigs on order, between Shell and OAD Evikhon.
under construction or being upgraded.
KCA DEUTAG has been awarded a contract In addition T41 is currently being mobilised by TNK-BP to build four HR-5000 hybrid from Brunei to Sakhalin to drill wells for SEIC development drilling rigs to support TNK-BPs commencing in May 2006. operations in the Uvat region, Tyumen Oblast, 01 International In order to service this growing market, Western Siberia.
These rigs will be owned by crews are a feature KCA DEUTAG opened a new area office TNK-BP and operated by KCA DEUTAG under of all of our rigs in Tyumen, Western Siberia.
The Group a separate four year contract.
Built by Bentec, and operations.
is currently employing some 120 people the first rig will be delivered in the first quarter in the area, which will increase in the 02 T105 on the of 2006, and will be used as a training facility near future as more rigs are put to work.
Chirag platform prior to going to work in field in early 2007. in the Caspian Two rigs will be delivered in the fourth quarter Elsewhere in Europe, T45 is drilling during production of 2006, with the fourth being delivered a deep gas storage well in the Netherlands, operations.
following which it will move to Switzerland to drill two deep geothermal wells for There is an increasing trend towards utilising Geothermal Switzerland.
higher capacity rigs in a number of our operating areas, and, therefore, the new The Group was also successful in obtaining building programme is again focused on rigs new contracts in Austria for OMV.
One requires of 1500hp and larger.
The Group is currently the building of an efficient fast moving rig, operating four 3000hp very high capacity which will be delivered in May 2006 and will land rigs located in a number of areas.
commence a drilling contract for an initial three years plus options to extend.
The second contract is for T52 to drill several important gas wells, following a refurbishment of the rig.
This contract commenced late in 2005.
10 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating Review In general, European rig utilisation has been Libya saw the delivery and commissioning of West Africa saw the delivery, commissioning high with the four rigs in Germany being two new rigs designed for desert conditions and start up of the new highly automated particularly active.
to complement the thirteen operating rigs high capacity platform rig for Chevrons already working in the country.
It is our Benguela Belize project in Angola.
In the Middle East we gained a landmark current intention to make further investments contract with South Rub Al-Khali Company This project was awarded a prestigious in new rigs in Libya in due course to meet SRAK, a consortium of Shell, Saudi Aramco Project of the Year award in late 2005. the growing demand for equipment foreseen and Total for a drilling programme for in the next two to three years.
In Sakhalin, the drilling and production a potential of seven wells in the Kingdom activities on board the Molikpaq were of Saudi Arabia.
T79 is currently undergoing In Libya the day rate improvements have temporarily shut down whilst modifications modification in Jebel Ali and will commence been slower to become effective due to were carried out to the top sides.
However operation in the second quarter of 2006.
recruitment work and training continued was our first contract in the Kingdom which This situation is however transient with a high in preparation for the start up of the has been followed by a further contract for visibility of opportunities such that we will Lunskoye-A Platform in early 2007 and rig T67 which will mobilise shortly.
be able to take advantage of improvements the Piltun-B Platform later that year.
In the rest of the Middle East, operations from 2007, as major international companies The acquisition of Norwegian company Prosafe continued at a satisfactory level.
Drilling Services PDS in August 2005 saw a particularly pleased to renew several contracts In all other operating areas market conditions portfolio of nine more platforms six operating in Oman, with significant increases in day rates.
continue to provide the Group with attractive and some 850 people brought into the Group.
opportunities for land rig operations which In Bangladesh, Chevron awarded This is a logical extension to our UK North Sea KCA DEUTAG a contract for drilling deep we are ideally placed to fulfil.
Demand for activities, and will enable us to address a new gas wells for which T202 was upgraded and rigs is such that we are seeing consistent client spread in Norway, accessing not only is currently batch drilling a series of wells.
improvements in day rates as contracts are their strong presence at home, but also their rolled over, renewed or awarded.
The unit was upgraded to 3000hp to meet increasingly international operations.
the needs of the project, this being the fourth Offshore Operations We have retained an essentially Norwegian rig of this capacity in the Groups fleet.
In the North Sea, although there was a slow management structure, and anticipate start to the year, during the second half of BP renewed its contract for T34 in Pakistan providing excellent international development the year the number of operational platforms for a third year and contracts in Nigeria with opportunities for our new employees.
increased steadily from an all time low of four Shell and PanOcean were also renewed.
As part of the acquisition of PDS, the Group in 2004 to nine by 2005 year end.
Pan African Maghena Inc. SAR contracted acquired the Rubicon, the only modularised The increasing trend in activity levels was T48 for a campaign in Gabon.
This rig was drilling unit in the North Sea.
It is currently reflected elsewhere with two new highly mobilised from the now closed down operating on the Montrose Platform for complex, highly mechanised rigs on the operation in Thailand.
Central Azeri and West Azeri Platforms commissioned and put into operation in Azerbaijan for the BP and AIOC consortium.
This was achieved with extremely high uptime and an exemplary safety record.
01 02 Abbot Group plc 11 Operating Review Engineering Bentec Offshore projects and brownfield Bentec, based in Bad Bentheim, Germany, engineering have seen another very has had a very successful year following the busy year.
reorganisation in 2003 2004 and the market improvement during the period.
Work continued on the design for East Azeri and Shah Deniz platforms for BP AIOC In addition to a number of smaller rig in Azerbaijan.
These two projects are in an packages built for KMZ Kazmunaygas in advanced state of construction and should Kazakhstan, the company also built a number see the commissioning phase and handover of electrical control centres for third parties to operations during 2006.
A third project, including OMZ in Russia for KCA DEUTAG.
Deep Water Guneshli formerly Phase III Bentec also delivered electrical control is also in the early construction phase with systems and tank systems for four rigs as operations due to start in late 2007. part of a contract between Algerias ENTP In support of the Sakhalin projects, our and the European Drilling Rig Alliance engineering teams in Korea continue to EDRA of which Bentec is a member.
provide support during the construction and As previously mentioned, Bentec was commissioning phases of the drilling facilities.
awarded a substantial contract by KCA The most notable project was the DEUTAG to build four HR5000 hybrid completion offshore, and commissioning development drilling rigs to support of the Benguela Belize facilities in Angola.
TNK-BPs operations in Western Siberia.
These were completed and handed over The new drilling facility for RWE-DEA to be to operations in the latter half of the year utilised on the Mittleplate fields artificial island following transportation from Houston.
offshore Northern Germany, was delivered RDS carried out a complex and important in August 2005 and was completed in front end engineering design FEED study December 2005, as specified in the contract.
for Agip KCO for their next phase of the Bentec has established an excellent reputation Kashagan field development in Kazakhstan.
for on time, on price, delivery.
It is also This study developed the concept of drilling developing a number of product lines so that units positioned on giant barges so that 01 Ice-breaking it becomes more of an Original Equipment they can move from drilling location to supply boats Manufacturer, which it is anticipated will lead drilling location.
operating in winter to better margins overall.
In addition, Bentec in the Caspian.
In the North Sea the engineering and projects has developed the design for a specialised group based in Aberdeen were augmented high capacity winterised rig specially for the 02 Operating by a team from the Prosafe acquisition, Russian market.
drilling facilities on the Britannia whose Technical and Projects group will Furthermore in 2005 Bentec set up a joint platform in the be absorbed into a unified organisation.
venture with Omani partner AITC in Muscat North Sea.
This enlarged group continues to be busy with to provide repair services and complete rig 03 Checking drill a large number of brownfield engineering upgrades.
The market response to the joint pipe in the desert.
modification projects in both sectors of the venture has been very encouraging and after North Sea.
less than one year of operation it is looking to expand its facilities in order to meet the market demands.
The Benguela Belize project was not only an internal milestone as far as project management achievements, but it was recognised by the prestigious Offshore Engineer magazine for the Offshore Energy Achievement Award Project of the Year.
12 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating Review Bentec has an excellent forward order book, This was a particular challenge for Objectives and Strategies not only with KCA DEUTAG, but also for third management which has to cope with start The Group is focused almost exclusively parties.
It provides the Group with a credible ups in almost all locations, and the taking on our existing geographies as we see the capacity for building land rigs.
Its business over of new operations in Libya and Norway.
opportunities developing in all of these areas.
philosophy of outsourcing as much of the This is the result of strategic positioning over KCA DEUTAG set itself a challenging target low value work as possible has significantly the past few years identifying the areas of of a Total Recorded Incidence Rate TRIR increased Bentecs capacity for assembling best long-term opportunity.
In spite of this its capacity for By year end, the overall TRIR was 1.06, an A key element of this strategy is to establish 2006 is almost fully utilised.
improvement of over 10% during the year ourselves as the Drilling Contractor of Choice, Management are currently looking at and as of February 2006 had exceeded its this being delivered by the quality of our strategies to increase capacity, particularly into target of 1.00.
This is a very commendable equipment, and the delivery of superior Russia, whilst at the same time maintaining result given current activity levels.
The performance in all aspects of our operations.
the reliability for the delivery and the quality Group has a clear policy of no harm to The objectives of having safe, trouble free of the product.
Capacity in Germany will anyone and this overall performance was operations, coupled with the delivery of continue to be optimised.
underpinned by an excellent performance on time, reliable performance as part of our in Azerbaijan.
There are a number of other Spear normal business behaviour distinguishes the areas however where attention will continue We have received a written offer for the Group from most of its competition in almost to be paid to improve their performance.
purchase of Spear, a non-core activity, which all areas of operation.
Overall KCA DEUTAG compares very well we are actively pursuing.
We are optimistic We have demonstrated that this focus on to its peers in the International Association that we shall conclude the sale of Spear performance across the board, and the proper of Drilling Contractors IADC bettering key in the near future.
upgrading and developing of good quality benchmark performance indicators in all areas.
For 2006, further emphasis is being placed on The Group has a continuing commitment Our investment programme continues to safety performance with a number of initiatives, to creating and maintaining a safe place build on our core geographies, however we mainly based on leadership development.
2005 saw the implementation will not rule out other opportunities to grow DEUTAG has developed its own specialised of a number of initiatives to continuously the business where this makes sense.
programme called Safe 2 Lead which will be maintain improvements in performance.
rolled out progressively during the coming year.
01 03 02 Abbot Group plc 13 Operating Review We will continue to gain advantages of are varying degrees of political and other risks.
timing by basing investments on a portfolio We consider the risks of operating in certain of opportunities rather than on specific countries very carefully, for instance, we have contracts, and we will continue to gain categorically ruled out any opportunities in market upside on contract renewals Iraq meantime.
We monitor very carefully on a continuous basis the levels of these risks, which at the Risks and Uncertainties moment are considered to be relatively low The Groups businesses and operations have and well understood by management.
The a broad risk profile which varies according to one exception is Nigeria where political turmoil overall market conditions, oil price, potential is focused at the oil and gas industry, primarily activity, geography, resources and to some offshore in the Delta area.
We are however degree a number of external influences such monitoring the situation of our onshore as the weather.
operations carefully both from a security of With the oil price currently at around $60 bbl personnel perspective and from a business this risk profile has changed significantly from interruption standpoint.
that of even only a few years ago.
The risks and uncertainties to the business The price of oil and the elements which are monitored continuously via the Risk underpin it are clearly robust for the short and Committee of the Board, and the Groups medium-term, and therefore the opportunities compliance management team.
Overall it for the Group will continue to be available.
is currently felt that other than the specific There are other factors which also encourage items mentioned above, the risks to the us to believe that the downside uncertainty business remain largely unchanged, however of a material change in the number of a number of the uncertainties are less than opportunities coming forward is somewhat they were say a couple of years ago, and we reduced for the near term.
are continuing to ameliorate or otherwise manage those which may have a negative The Group also has operations in a wide range impact on that growth.
of countries and jurisdictions, for which there 01 Project planning in the desert.
01 02 03 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating Review portfolio Bentecs rig building and equipment Resources capacity and capability.
Bentec is seeking There is no doubt that with the very ways to more efficiently use its capacity and significant positive developments in the Our objective to expand into appropriate markets, and we market place in the past year there are now should see some of these plans put into a number of serious resource issues for the of being the place in 2006 2007. industry as a whole.
dominant Past Performance and Position People Since the acquisition of Deutag in late As the industry has expanded rapidly there contractor in our 2001 the Group has continued to grow has been significant pressure on personnel.
its international business in a number of KCA DEUTAG have themselves started up focused markets key areas.
some nine land rigs and offshore units, as is consistent with well as new locations in Russia and West Russia, the Middle East and North Africa Africa, and this sort of activity has been are the key areas for our future growth, our presence in replicated by almost all companies associated particularly with respect to the land with the oil and gas business.
Libya, Oman and has developed a number of strategies for Offshore the Group has a number of meeting this challenge which include Russia in terms projects in the Caspian and in the Russian developing attractive pay and bonus schemes Far East which we have already confirmed to ensure retention of existing staff, the of land operations contractually and which will start to development and training of local staff contribute to the Group during the next and in the North wherever we operate, and the attraction two years.
Our recent acquisition in Norway of new, well qualified people via scholarships Sea, Azerbaijan has reinforced our position in a number and other schemes, not only in the UK, but of aspects in the North Sea.
in other parts of the world.
and Sakhalin, The Group is not positioned in the Americas We find the highly educated workforce in and we find that the mainstream North offshore.
Russia and the Former Soviet Union to be American land drilling market is very much a highly rewarding resource for the Group, a commodity market with operations which which we anticipate developing for the future.
are very different from our international Our management resources are continually operations.
The level of competition is also being developed via management intense, local, and defensive.
It is a highly development programmes aimed at the volatile market, and whereas the current development of individual and group returns on North America are good, it has relationships, thus allowing a well organised, only recently become so.
The international progressive system to be in place.
market is less volatile with more predictable earnings streams.
Rigs & Equipment As with people, the availability of drilling In benchmarking our land operations against rig equipment and build capacity is being the comparable international operations stretched under current market conditions.
of our competitors we compare favourably.
Deliveries for key items of equipment, diesel Our objective of being the dominant engines and mud pumps are currently critical contractor in our focused markets is consistent to on time rig completion.
Second hand with our presence in Libya, Oman and Russia rigs and equipment in reasonable condition in terms of land operations and in the North are now almost non-existent and so any Sea, Azerbaijan and Sakhalin, offshore.
further investment in rigs will almost certainly require new builds.
Build capacity on a world wide basis is almost fully utilised and this Michael J. L. Salter may become an issue in time.
The Group is Chief Operating Officer, 17 March 2006 particularly fortunate in having as part of its Abbot Group plc 15 Continuing to strengthen relationships Maintaining and strengthening relationships with existing clients is key to consolidating our position in overseas markets.
PROJECT TASK Construction and Achieving first oil from the Central Azeri installation of the Central field in February 2005 marked the latest Azeri offshore rig in the milestone in KCA DEUTAGs involvement in Caspian Sea the multi-phase development of the massive LOCATION Various: Marseilles Baku  offshore field.
Offshore DURATION 5 years PERSONNEL Currently 116 assigned o AVERAGE TEMP.
Summer 30 C o Winter -5 C WEATHER Windy, warm in summer CONDITIONS 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Continuing to strengthen relationships 01 The Central Azeri deck is loaded on to the barge.
