S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 R EVIEW OF O PERATIONS B OOKS The UK market for monochrome trade books remained strong in a year which included the publication of the latest Harry Potter title Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.
Clays continued to benefit from its reputation for quality and its ability to provide a fast reliable service and as a result produced a high proportion of the UKs best selling titles.
These included, in addition to JK Rowlings Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, The Two of Us: My Life with John Thaw Sheila Hancock for Bloomsbury: Cloud Atlas David Mitchell and Farewell but not Goodbye My Autobiography Sir Bobby Robson for Hodder: A Long Way Down Nick Hornby published by Penguin: The Family Way by Tony Parsons for Harper Collins: Small Island Andrea Levy and Lifeguard James Patterson for Headline: Trace Patricia Cornwell published by Time Warner Books: and Saturday by Ian McEwan for Random House.
We have continued with our investment programme in the areas of web printing, cased binding, and cover and jacket production, in addition further developing our Management Information Systems to extend the range and quality of services offered to our customers.
In particular, we have signicantly increased the number of books which we deliver direct from our factory to distributors, wholesalers and retail outlets.
During the year we renewed a number of contracts with our trade customers to secure volumes going forward.
D IRECT R ESPONSE, Trading conditions in commercial markets continued to be highly C OMMERCIAL AND competitive with volumes, and particularly margins, remaining suppressed.
P OINT - OF-S ALE In commercial markets we experienced a significant reduction in UK demand due principally to a number of large annual one-off projects which did not repeat this year.
There was a reduction in the demand for personalised direct mail marketing materials, particularly from the financial services sector and in sales to the public sector.
Encouragingly, however, sales to other major customers, notably retail, increased.
We continued our programme of redeveloping and reinvesting in our commercial printing businesses with particular emphasis on reducing commodity capacity whilst at the same time broadening our service capabilities.
During the year we completed the relocation of St Ives Direct Bradfords graphics and digital print facility to Leeds and invested in 8 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 additional state-of-the-art digital print, graphics and photographic studio facilities.
In March we closed our Bristol sheetfed operation and transferred its business to our sites in Bradford and Romford.
An increasing number of opportunities are emerging which we are well placed to exploit as a result of our recent investments in digital, graphics and mailing technologies.
In June we ordered a new 5 unit 32-page specialist short grain press for St Ives Direct Bradfords web operations to replace a long grain press more suited to commoditised products.
The new press, with in-line nishing, will complement our existing 32-page press and strengthen our ability to specialise in value-added products when it is installed in March 2006.
Despite tougher trading conditions experienced by UK retailers during the year, demand for point-of-sale products and services from our retail and international brand customers has remained steady.
Following the acquisition of SP Group in September 2004, our existing point-of-sale operations at Crayford were transferred to SPs Redditch site.
SP has broadened the Groups customer base with the addition of a number of household names, most notably Arcadia Group, Bacardi, Boots, George and Wilkinsons.
The outlook for SP is positive and, in circumstances where it is prudent to do so, we shall widen its customer base and pursue other opportunities for investment as they arise.
We have also purchased additional premises at Redditch to house St Ives Logistics, a new group facility to meet customers increasing requirements for stock management, consolidation, fullment and logistics services.
USA The commercial markets we serve in the USA remained extremely competitive.
Our business in Cleveland has gained significant sales from fast food chain franchisees which partly offset declining prices and volumes experienced in their traditional markets.
Our recent investment in a new sheetfed multicolour perfecting press and development of St Ives On-Line will help us to make further progress by giving our customers the ability to effect direct order entry, undertake digital prepress operations and page make up and initiate proong.
