Chief Executives Operating Review Betting Division Since the year-end the Groups domestic Retail Betting Operation has been sold.
We have retained our interest in the International bookmaking operation and intend to continue the development of this business.
Financial Results The Betting Division had a difficult year, with the run of luck being with customers, which resulted in Group profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and impairment falling 4% from 41.8m to 40.1m.
profit before taxation increased by 11% from 35.4m to 39.2m.
Earnings per share rose by 29% to 20.1p 2004: 15.6p, while earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and impairment increased slightly to 20.8p 2004: 20.6p.
The 2004 gures included an exceptional charge of 4.6m for impairment of goodwill in relation to the internet gaming business.
Betting Division Since the year-end, we have successfully completed the sale of the Groups domestic Retail Betting Operation, which comprised the licensed betting ofces in the UK, the Republic of Ireland, Jersey and the Isle of Man for 504m.
This generated an estimated profit on disposal of 210m estimated at 330m on an International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis.
As a consequence of this disposal we have also closed the nonretail telebetting and internet based betting businesses.
These developments took place after the year-end and therefore this Review BETTING DIVISION PROFITABILITY 24% 25.9m 2004: 34.2m 2003 04 2004 05 Change m m % -- Discontinued operations 29.6 24.5 17 Continuing operations -- International 6.3 2.9 54 27% e-gaming 1.7 1.5 12 Betting Division Turnover -- 34.2 25.9 24 1,882m 2004: 1,482m before goodwill amortisation, impairment, interest and tax covers the performance and contribution primarily driven by the success of the popular sporting results and further legal actions of these businesses throughout the 2005 Fixed Odds Betting Terminals FOBTs.
against our agents in Italy caused profit to financial year.
The financial results of these Gross win fell marginally to 178.4m decline by 54% to 2.9m 2004: 6.3m.
businesses are included in the profit and Loss 2004: 179.4m, but profit before tax and Account as Discontinued operations and goodwill amortisation fell by 24% to 25.9m Since January 2005 we have halted the the xed assets have been reclassied on 2004: 34.2m.
decline in agent numbers in Italy following the 2005 Balance Sheet as Tangible assets an important judgment in the Consiglio di held for disposal.
Discontinued Operations Retail and Stato the administrative section of the Machines Italian Supreme Court effectively suspending We have retained our interest in the The retail over the counter business was orders to close.
However, the International International betting operation and intend to adversely affected by sports results running business continues to absorb significant legal continue the development of this business by much more in favour of our customers than costs associated with these actions.
working with our partners to achieve further in the previous year.
The impact of these expansion of this operation.
poor sporting results has been compounded Strategically, having established with our by cost increases, particularly staff costs partners a low cost and low capital business, The loss making e-gaming operation is associated with the longer opening hours.
we are keen to develop the business further.
currently under review and pending the We believe it has significant potential to completion of that review the website As previously stated, the primary benefit of expand into new territories once the remaining remains open.
As a consequence the results longer opening hours is that they enable legal matters are resolved.
of both the International business and the greater customer access to machines.
e-gaming operation are included within the The FOBT business has enjoyed significant The International business has always Betting Divisions Continuing operations growth during the period driven by increased operated on a stand-alone basis from the in the Groups profit and Loss Account.
average profit per machine and the roll-out Retail Betting Operation.
As a result, it has of additional FOBT machines throughout in place the appropriate management and After the record profits of the previous year, our estate.
systems to continue its day to day operations 2005 was always going to be a challenging following the sale of the Groups domestic year, but despite longer opening hours and Continuing Operations International Retail Betting Operation.
an increase in stakes the results have been Throughout the year, our International disappointing.
The Betting Division turnover operation has experienced a long run of poor rose by 27% to 1,882m 2004: 1,482m, sporting results, especially on football.
These 04 05 Stanley Leisure plc 2005 Annual Report Chief Executives Operating Review Gaming Division With the Group now focused primarily on gaming, the Board is determined to capture all possible benets from the deregulation of the industry.
We have an exciting 100m five year investment plan for the expansion of our estate.
Gaming Division turnover rose by 10% to 195m 2004: 177m, largely reecting an improved contribution from Crockfords.
profit before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation increased strongly, to 33.7m 2004: 26.0m representing an increase of 30%.
London Casinos Our London casinos have delivered a satisfactory profit for the year, with drop and win margin returning to more typical levels.
Crockfords has recovered well from the poor results in the previous year, when a number of high rollers won substantial sums.
Our other London casinos The Colony, Palm Beach and The Mint performed well.
The three Mayfair casinos made further progress in encouraging players to play in all three casinos and we will continue to promote this exible and attractive option.
Towards the end of the financial year we commenced a major refurbishment of Crockfords, our agship casino.
This 4m plus investment is scheduled for completion in July 2005 and will ensure Crockfords remains one of the pre-eminent casinos in London.
We are also well advanced in nding a new site for The Mint casino, as we have outgrown the existing location.
We hope to have relocated this casino by 2008.
GAMING DIVISION PROFITABILITY 30% 33.7m 2004: 26.0m 2003 04 2004 05 Change m m % London 7.6 14.9 96 10% Provincial including Star City 18.4 18.8 2 Gaming Division Turnover 26.0 33.7 30 195m 2004: 177m before goodwill amortisation, interest and tax Provincial Casinos Stanley Genting Casinos within six months of the commencement of Our Provincial casino estate made steady In November 2004 we announced a joint the new regulations.
progress in the year with profits improving by venture with Genting International plc to 2% to 18.8m 2004: 18.4m.
In common pursue opportunities for developing Regional A consequence of the membership rule with the rest of the industry, results were casinos.
The combination of the Genting changes will, we believe, be a significant affected by adverse changes in the moneygroups international experience of building increase in customer numbers.
We are, laundering regulations in the early months of and managing very large casinos, hotel and therefore, further upgrading our estate to the financial year.
Once these regulations were leisure facilities, together with our knowledge ensure we have casinos in the best locations, modied in June 2004 we saw improvements and experience of the UK market means that and with sufficient space to provide an in both attendance and turnover.
we are well positioned to pursue opportunities environment that encourages repeat visits.
In addition to the existing refurbishment Star City remains the largest casino in the UK programme we are well advanced with four but owing to the final form of the Gambling Deregulation casino relocations in the Provincial estate Act 2005 it is now clear that it will not be able The final shape and form of the Gambling in addition to The Mint casino, in London.
to reach its full potential in the short to medium Act 2005 was not as any of us expected and term.
Included within the Provincial casino certainly a long way from the free market We are also lodging five licence applications results are losses of 2.1m 2004: 2.3m loss, recommended by the Budd Report and the under the 1968 Act regulations and have a including pre opening costs in respect of Star Joint Scrutiny Committee.
However, the further nine casinos where we are exploring City and we expect to incur a further loss Act does bring some worthwhile benets the potential to extend or relocate.
over and above the new eight Small, eight aggregate these plans could add over 50% Large and one Regional casino that will to the size of our gaming oor space over the We have completed the refurbishment of four be permitted.
In particular, the removal of next few years.
We are planning to invest in Provincial casinos and commenced work at a the so called 24 hour membership rule, the excess of 100m over the next five years in further three locations.
We have also trialled revision of marketing rules and the increased order to enhance the estate and make the new slot machines and electronic roulette machine numbers, stake levels and prizes will accompanying investments in machines.
machines in anticipation of the changes have a positive impact on our operations.
to machine regulations introduced in the Over and above the growth potential within Gambling Act 2005.
Early results from these We are already making plans to capture the the existing estate, we intend to play an active new style machines have been encouraging benets of the relaxation of the membership role in respect of the seventeen new casino and they are providing valuable experience and marketing rules as soon as the new Act licences.
The locations for these casinos are prior to a more comprehensive roll-out is implemented.
We have also placed orders anticipated to be selected in 2006 and we across the provincial estate when the with machine manufacturers to achieve the believe we are well placed to win a number regulations allow.
permitted maximum number of machines of these licences.
We are also discussing with 06 07 Stanley Leisure plc 2005 Annual Report Chief Executives Operating Review Gaming Division continued The Group is now focusing on consolidating its position as the leading UK casino operator.
Genting, our joint venture partner for Regional UK and capturing all possible benets casinos, whether to extend the scope of the from deregulation.
With our experienced joint venture to consider all new casino management team, our operational strength opportunities.
and excellent financial position we are well placed to achieve a good return on our Current Trading and Outlook investments and deliver further growth for The new financial year has started satisfactorily our shareholders.
We operate in an exciting across our casino estate, but as ever, our industry with excellent prospects and we results can change quickly depending on look forward to the profitable development our luck and the luck of our players.
The and growth of the business in the short to International betting operation has begun medium term.
In the longer term, the prospects the year quietly as so much of its business is of further relaxation and deregulation of the geared to the football season.
industry are also very good.
With the disposal of our Retail Betting Operation, Stanley is now predominantly a BOB WIPER gaming operator.
The Group is now focusing Chief Executive on consolidating its leading position in the 18 July 2005 At a glance We are the largest casino operator in the UK and currently operate four casinos in London The Mint, The Colony Club, Palm Beach and the prestigious worldrenowned Crockfords as well as 37 provincial casinos across the UK including Star City in Birmingham, the largest casino in the UK today.
08 09 Stanley Leisure plc 2005 Annual Report
