Polymer Chemicals Sales Divisional operating profit 364.8 million 34.2 million 15.4% 23.5% rise in turnover increase in divisional operating profit underlying performance In almost every respect, our Polymer Chemicals businesses delivered a healthy performance in 2005 and demonstrated good progress along our chosen growth path.
Raw material availability and cost were again a feature, with the aftermath of the hurricanes in the USA adding to the pressures caused by the persistence of the high price of crude oil.
Despite these challenges, record sales volumes saw turnover rise 15.4% and that, coupled with higher capacity utilisation and improving sales prices, provided a 23.5% increase in operating profit.
The width of our product portfolio and the flexibility to adapt products for customers to give improved commercial and technical advantage remains a key strength.
In addition, new products have been successfully launched to address changing market conditions.
This has assisted in the development of business in Europe and Asia in support of the manufacturing investments of recent years.
Plans are in hand to increase capacity further for selected markets and regions.
The world economy is adjusting to the higher costs of oil-based products.
This is true of our customer base where a greater acceptance of higher selling prices, plus the impact of changes in product mix, saw margins return to double-digits as the year progressed.
In the latter months of 2005 the volatility in raw material costs, while still present, had reduced and the availability of monomers improved.
Such an environment provides the conditions to increase the number of growth opportunities and maintain the momentum towards our long term strategic goals of expanding into new markets and capturing target accounts.
Synthetic Latex Global volumes of synthetic latex grew by close to 10% in the year.
The merits of a production facility in Malaysia close to our customers for nitrile glove dipping latex was a significant contributory factor.
The rising shipping costs of our competitors based in Europe and the USA have been avoided and with a number of new developments coming on stream the customer base has increased.
Sales volumes of nitrile latex grew by a substantial 25%, supported by process development initiatives which released 20% additional capacity at the Kluang facility.
With growth in this market set to continue, investment in additional reactor capacity will commence in the second quarter of 2006.
Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Polymer Chemicals 06 Emulsions The emulsion business in 2005 was subject to regional variations, but overall record tonnages were achieved.
The 8% volume growth achieved in Europe was against the trend of published statistics which showed a year-on-year decline in customer demand.
The major part of this success came from higher sales to continental European customers supplied from our Belgian facility.
Our technology, which is well established in the UK, provides the platform to supply customers across a wide number of application areas.
With the freer supply of raw materials, the opportunity for greater sales to these markets is being pursued.
In South East Asia and the Middle East sales declined slightly, in line with general market conditions.
However, the fall was less than might have occurred since customers in some sectors, such as construction in Malaysia and paint in Saudi Arabia, have reported substantial falls in demand.
Emulsion sales in South Africa moved forward as general economic activity remained robust.
The benefit of recent investments in reactor capacity emerged in both costeffectiveness and the ability to support increased customer demand.
A new range of emulsion adhesives was also launched directed at broadening our activities in the packaging and wood industries.
Polyvinyl Alcohol Acetate Efforts initiated to develop sales in Asia have proved successful and provided compensation for weaker polyvinyl alcohol demand in other parts of the world as a consequence of a slow-down in the PVC industry.
Margins came under pressure due to the rising cost of vinyl acetate monomer and, with customers having alternative technology options, reflecting these higher prices in the market has proved a difficult challenge.
The unique properties of our alcotex range of stabilisers has, however, permitted the maintenance of market share.
As the PVC industry develops in Asia we remain well placed for future growth.
Polyvinyl acetate sales overall are running at the level of recent years.
New product developments for adhesive and additive applications are offsetting weaker sales to the automotive industry.
Other Speciality Products After a slight dip in speciality natural rubber latex sales in 2004, volumes pleasingly recovered in a year when underlying natural rubber prices rose.
Our Malaysian operation is the leading supplier to the world condom manufacturing industry.
It is, therefore, not surprising that the first customer approvals and sales for our recently established joint venture in India are at condom manufacturers in that country.
Revertex Finewaters, our adhesives manufacturing company in Malaysia, successfully deployed new marketing tactics and products to re-establish their highly successful track record.
Export sales throughout the region continue to grow.
Sales of alkyd resins in Asia fell back slightly, but polyester sales grew as good contract business in Malaysia Singapore was secured.
A shift towards more specialised applications has also assisted in improving margins.
Lithene polybutadiene sales continued at a solid level, but a shift in product mix has seen good margin development.
A debottlenecking investment was completed in mid-2005 in order to facilitate new product introductions.
Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Polymer Chemicals 07
