Operations Review Another exceptional year with record production levels, new fields on stream, progress towards new production in a number of key development projects and exploration success in the UK and Africa.
During 2005, we continued to consolidate our business and enhance our operating capabilities, commencing gas production from Tullows first operated UK offshore development.
We now operate over 60% of our UK production.
UK and African assets delivered well, with Group production up 44% to 58,450 boepd, while a dual focus on new developments and exploration ensures that growth can be maintained in the long term.
Our exploration activities included drilling 10 wells in five countries.
These increased levels of activity and production were delivered whilst maintaining our excellent Environment, Health and Safety EHS standards.
The focus of our business continues to be on expansion within our three core areas, NW Europe, Africa and South Asia, to maintain: A diverse and balanced portfolio of oil and gas producing assets: A series of development projects to deliver growth in production: A balanced exploration portfolio containing higher risk-reward prospects and lower risk infrastructure-led prospects: and Adrian Nel Paul McDade Exploration Director Chief Operating Officer A strong and qualified team to continue the development of our business.
Exploration Tullows current production level of 24 mmboe per year has increased the Groups targets for production and growth.
To meet those targets, Tullow identified the need to expand its exploration portfolio and has enhanced its exploration strategy to achieve this.
Our strategy has two principal and balancing aspects lower-risk exploration in the areas close to infrastructure, particularly where Tullow has a competitive advantage, and high impact exploration in Africa and South Asia.
In general our near-facility exploration, in the mature areas of the UK Southern North Sea and Gabon, targets net reserves of less than 20 mmboe, whereas our high impact exploration in higher risk areas targets net reserves in excess of 20 mmboe in locations where success is likely to yield further discoveries.
6 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 NW Europe Africa South Asia 2005 Sales Revenue by Core Area 2005 Production by Core Area million % boepd % NW Europe 179.5 40 NW Europe 24,414 42 Africa 264.9 59 Africa 33,623 57 South Asia 0.8 1 South Asia 413 1 2005 Sales Revenue by Segment 2005 Commercial Reserves by Core Area million % mmboe % Oil and Gas Sales 430.5 97 NW Europe 59.4 31 Tariff Income 14.7 3 Africa 116.9 61 South Asia 15.9 8 In 2005 a major goal was to add attractive acreage in both The acquisition and integration of the operated Schooner the near-infrastructure and high impact categories and Tullow and Ketch assets and achieving significantly enhanced maintains a policy of actively screening any opportunities production uptime: arising within its core areas.
During 2005, the Group evaluated The Niungo infill and appraisal drilling project in Gabon a large number of opportunities, resulting in the addition of which resulted in a reserves increase of 51% for the field: four high impact licences in Pakistan and three licences in the UK North Sea.
Five new licences in Africa are currently Ongoing expansion of the MBoundi field and facilities under negotiation.
in Congo Brazzaville, where production and reserves increased by 264% and 13% respectively: The Group completed seismic surveys in four regions and Successful infill programmes on the offshore Ceiba field drilled 10 exploration wells in 2005, resulting in two gas in Equatorial Guinea and East Espoir field in Cte dIvoire.
discoveries in the UK North Sea, an oil discovery onshore Gabon and a gas discovery offshore Mauritania.
The In addition, Tullow made significant progress on a number successful programme has continued into 2006 with a of ongoing development projects, which will deliver further gas discovery in the UK Southern North Sea and two oil production growth in 2006. discoveries in Uganda proving the Albertine Basin to be a new hydrocarbon province.
Unit cash operating costs were similar to 2004 despite increasing pressure on industry costs.
It is anticipated that We expect to drill up to 20 exploration wells during 2006. this performance can be maintained in 2006 and 2007 13 of these currently fall into the near-infrastructure exploration through increased production levels and improved synergies category seven in the UK North Sea, five in Gabon and one in in the use of our infrastructure in the UK, Equatorial Guinea, Pakistan.
Five high impact wells are planned for Blocks 2 and 3A Cte dIvoire and Congo Brazzaville.
in Uganda and one for Block L in Equatorial Guinea.
Ongoing seismic programmes in India, Pakistan and Cte dIvoire are We anticipate similar levels of activity in 2006 across each expected to yield further high impact prospects.
In the producing assets, however, of particular importance in particular, accelerated seismic programmes in the Kohat 2006 will be the start-up of a number of new fields and the licence in Pakistan Tullow 40% and the CB-ON 1 licence in redevelopment of the Schooner and Ketch fields.
In Africa we India Tullow 50% could define prospects for drilling in late expect the offshore West Espoir and Okume developments to 2006.
We will spud the first of two important appraisal wells come on stream in the third and fourth quarters of this year.
on the potentially major Kudu gas field in early 2007.
Rigs These fields should add over 11,000 bopd net to Tullow when have already been contracted for most of the scheduled wells.
In Asia we expect the Bangora long-term test to commence in the second quarter and the Chachar field to come on stream in the fourth quarter of Production and Development Activity levels were exceptionally high in 2005 on both the 2006, significantly enhancing our Asian production.
The redevelopment of the Schooner and Ketch fields, which is producing fields and the fields currently under development.
The Group drilled 50 development wells across its UK and under way, will be significantly advanced by the end of 2006, adding substantially to our UK gas production.
In aggregate, African producing assets, resulting in strongly increased production and significant upgrades of reserves.
these projects should allow Group production to rise to over 75,000 boepd by the end of 2006 and reach 80,000 boepd Highlights were: during 2007.
In addition, we expect to sanction the significant gas-to-power project in Namibia and at least one offshore First gas from our first operated offshore development, Horne & Wren in the UK, delivered within budget and only development in the UK in 2006.
12 months after sanction: Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 7
