Operating review by category Foods Highlights in 2005 included: In all cases, whether were communicating the health benets of Lipton tea or the vitality credentials of Hellmanns, we only make The growth of healthier innovations, such as Becel Flora health and nutrition claims for our brands that are supported by pro activ and Knorr Vie, is a direct result of our vitality strategy.
This approach is underpinned by a strict claims guidance framework, as well as a We completed our nutritional enhancement programme.
Over commitment to make nutritional information available to 16 000 products have been assessed for levels of trans fats, consumers.
saturated fats, sodium and sugars, and, where necessary, action has been taken to reduce them.
Improved quality has been another theme of our innovations, reected in the launch of our gourmet-standard Bertolli Dinner Our R&D has been restructured to operate as a single, for Two frozen range, a major success in the US.
Knorr has also integrated organisation, enabling us to leverage our global produced exceptional results in the Netherlands and other scale and allocate resources more productively.
European countries with its new, high quality wet soups in pouches also sold as Unox, as has our ice cream business with its We are embracing vitality at the core of our Foods brands, new and intensely avoured Magnum Five Senses.
ensuring they deliver the nutritional and health benets that consumers are increasingly demanding, as well as that essential For developing and emerging markets, we have continued to ingredient for success great taste.
make our products more affordable through packaging and priceper-serving with pioneering products such as Knorr Cubitos Becel Flora pro activ is a case in point.
Originally launched as a seasoning cubes.
spread to help people reduce their cholesterol, Becel Flora pro activ has extended rapidly into a range that includes milk While consumers increasingly look for ways to eat healthily out of drinks, yoghurt products and minidrinks.
This no longer relates home, they are not willing to sacrifice taste and convenience.
This only to cholesterol, as there is now a mini-drink to help people often challenges foodservice operators to offer food that meets all control blood pressure.
In fact, the brand has proved so effective the needs of their customers.
Our Unilever Foodsolutions business in improving heart health, as part of a balanced diet, that the gives foodservice professionals products that deliver delicious Netherlands largest health insurer, VGZ, is rewarding its policy taste, consistent quality, convenience and healthier menu options.
holders nancially when they buy Becel Flora pro activ products.
In 2005 we launched Knorr Coulis, a new innovative range of To help consumers meet their daily nutritional requirements, we pure sauces made from freshly mashed vegetables.
To be used as also launched Knorr Vie mini shots in Europe.
Free of preservatives a warm or cold sauce or as a natural ingredient, Knorr Coulis and other additives, these convenient natural drinks help creatively renes and decorates all types of dishes.
With its pure, consumers on their way towards their daily fruit and vegetable high quality ingredients, its fresh authentic taste and exciting needs.
Other advances included new fruit variants of our colours, it is a solution that brings chefmanship and vitality nutritionally rich, soy-based drink, AdeS, in Latin America.
many of our brands that have embraced vitality, AdeS has proved a success and will be extended to other markets.
Our dedicated new vitality platforms group are actively creating numerous future opportunities such as the ones mentioned above.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 29 Report of the Directors Operating review by category Home and Personal Care Highlights in 2005 included: To grow our share of the male grooming market, we launched Axe shower gel in North America.
Within just three years, Axe has The success of all Small & Mighty liquid detergent has become the leading deodorant brand in the US.
We also launched underlined the power of stronger relationships with our Rexona Sport for Men with an award-winning advertising customers.
Rexona is now the number one male deodorant brand in Russia and Ukraine.
Dove and Rexona extended their leadership with launches such as Dove Cool Moisture and Rexona teens.
In hair, the new Sunsilk colour enhancement range in Europe has been designed to increase the brands appeal among young Technological breakthroughs have spearheaded the recovery of consumers.
In oral care, the worlds first centre-lled gel our Home Care business, as well as hair in Asia.
toothpaste was introduced in Vietnam.
To make greater inroads in the US skin market, we opened a Innovation has reinvigorated our laundry business.
The Omo Dirt new $23 million R&D facility in Connecticut.
is Good campaign was rolled out across most of Asia after its launch in Latin America and Europe, giving us near global Vitality is now central to our Home and Personal Care business.
In Europe, we introduced a new gel-layered detergent The Dove Campaign for Real Beauty, the Omo Dirt is Good tablet that helped make Skip the fastest growing HPC brand in campaign and the Lifebuoy Handwashing campaigns in Asia are France by the end of 2005.
A new whiteness shading technology tangible programmes that bring Unilevers vitality mission to life in in Latin America gave consumers more appealing whites with our Home and Personal Care brands.
The proprietary technology behind the innovation is ensuring we keep ahead of our key competitors.
In North The success of Lifebuoy in India and Indonesia contributed to the America, all Small & Mighty is leading the concentrated liquid performance of our skin business in Asia, as did the launch of detergent market.
Its success illustrates how great mixes, which Ponds whitening platform, which underlines Unilevers strength in have both a consumer-winning innovation and a strong customer the face care sector across Asia.
In China, we continued to develop the fabric conditioners market where Comfort is the market leader.
The new Dove Cool Moisture range was launched in North America while the Dove rming range was rolled out globally.
We The level of innovation in household care has been equally also extended the Dove Campaign for Real Beauty with the creative.
Cif, for example, rolled out pioneering power cream creation of the Dove Self-Esteem Fund for young women to sprays for the bathroom and kitchen.
The traditional offer to the educate and inspire girls on a wider denition of beauty.
consumer of cream from Cif has now been enhanced with an attractive new proposition with the same power of the Cif cream In South Africa we relaunched Vaseline with a range of lotions in a spray.
Domestos, meanwhile, extended its kill germ power and creams aligned with the new global packaging.
We also into a new territory with the sink and drain unblocker that now launched South Africas first mass-market male lotion, new clears blockages up to twice as fast as the market leader.
30 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
