REVIEW OF OPERATIONS SUSTAINING PERFORMANCE A combination of new field development activity and incremental investment in our producing fields led to a 77% increase in average production from 16,832 boepd in 2004 to 29,864 boepd in 2005.
The successful start up of three new fields Annabel, Gadwall and Saturn plus completion of nine in-field investments delivered this step change in production performance.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Audrey A Fields The main focus of activity in the Audrey field Venture Ventures A Fields production hub is located in the 100% was the drilling of an in-fill well.
Venture drilled southern North Sea.
It comprises five producing gas the B-5 well during the second quarter that unfortunately fields and a number of additional discoveries and encountered low pressure reservoir.
Post well analysis exploration prospects.
The five producing fields, Audrey, also indicated the possibility of some well bore formation Ann, Alison, Annabel and Saturn, collectively produced damage and a chemical intervention is planned for 2006 16,476 boepd net average for 2005 2004: 6,195 to attempt to resume production from this well.
boepd generating approximately 55% of Group production and representing 166% growth.
A review of the field has resulted in the potential for several engineering solutions to improving production The Companys gas business has been developed over efficiency.
These include desanding dewatering to several years and during 2005 we saw two new fields extend well lifecycle and the benefits of a compression come on production.
In April, the Annabel field delivered facility on the platform.
Further subsurface work has first gas and in September, the ConocoPhillips operated identified a possible in-fill opportunity in the north-east Saturn field started production.
This increase in gas part of the field.
production has coincided with a tightening of supply and increase in demand, which has driven up commodity Ann Alison prices.
Ventures development programme continues to During the year the Ann Alison fields Venture 100% focus on the exploitation of gas reserves in what we continued to produce in line with expectations.
A focus believe will be a period of tight supply during 2006-8 of 2005 activity was to finalise the location of an in-fill and possibly beyond.
This will be supported by a two well in the Ann field to develop additional reserves.
year drilling contract commencing in the second quarter This opportunity was highlighted following a subsurface of 2006. re-evaluation of the field in late 2004.
The well, Ann A-4, was completed in early 2006 and tested at 35 MMscfd.
Annabel It was brought on stream in the second quarter following One of the highlights for Venture in 2005 was the startcompletion of commissioning activities.
No further work up of the Annabel field Venture 100% in April.
The on either Ann or Alison is planned for 2006. field started production only 20 months after the discovery well was drilled by Venture in 2003.
Average Saturn production for the year was 9,850 boepd following The Saturn development, operated by ConocoPhillips completion of the second well, which was a fast track Venture 22%, comprises the currently producing Atlas development allowing access to strong winter accumulation, the proven Hyperion accumulation and the commodity prices.
This second Annabel well came on Rhea prospect.
The Saturn development includes a stream in December 2005. normally unmanned production facility located towards the northern part of the Atlas accumulation.
Two wells Production from Annabel continues to exceed into Atlas and a dual-lateral well into Hyperion will access expectations and we expect the field to continue its proven reserves.
Plans are in place to drill the Rhea strong performance with no further capital investment prospect from the platform during 2006.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 7 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS SUSTAINING PERFORMANCE 2005 was a transformational year as Ventures gas business reaped the benefits of investment of almost 100 million in the Annabel and Saturn development projects.
From a starting point of 7,500 boepd, production increased rapidly with Annabel coming onstream in April, only 22 months after discovery, and construction and installation of the Saturn platform delivered ahead of schedule in September to take gas production by year end to over 30,000 boepd, an increase of 166% over 2004.
JONATHAN ROGER Gas Assets Manager production for 2005 was 1,585 boepd net following the well planning phase the sea-bed survey highlighted the start-up of the field in September 2005.
Current presence of a biogenic reef at the preferred well location.
production is better than planned and we anticipate This has resulted in the need for additional environmental growth in production once the currently drilling Hyperion analysis and further approvals to drill, which in turn has well is brought on stream in 2006.
An extended reach delayed drilling Amanda until late 2006. well from the Saturn platform to the Rhea prospect is The original development concept, to include drilling the expected to be drilled in mid 2006.
This strategy will Agatha prospect Venture 100% and develop jointly enable Rhea to commence production during the high through the Alison subsea manifold, is still the plan.
First demand winter period in the event that the well is gas is targeted for the fourth quarter 2007 when we still successful.
Key long lead Mimas material contracts have been placed to support this Mimas is a proven gas discovery in block 48 9 in which timescale.
The operator, ConocoPhillips, Ensign is currently developing the field with first gas planned for Following two separate transactions Venture acquired late 2006.
Mimas is being developed as a normally 100% of the Ensign discovery located in southern North unmanned platform with one producer tied back to the Sea blocks 48 14 and 48 15a immediately west of the Saturn facility.
Amanda Agatha The Ensign discovery if one of the largest undeveloped Following the Venture operated discovery well 49 11a-9, gas accumulations in the southern North Sea with an drilled in 2003, plans were in place to side-track the estimated gas volume in place of between 300 and 400 Amanda discovery well Venture 100% to improve Bcf.
The vast majority of the recoverable volumes are productivity from the Rotliegend reservoir.
During the 8 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS believed to lie within Block 48 14 with the remainder in Block 48 15a.
Ensign was discovered in 1986 by well 48 14-2 which tested at 15 MMscfd.
Using the Noble Julie Robertson rig, the Company plans to drill and hydraulically fracture an appraisal well during 2006 to test reservoir deliverability rates, ahead of committing to a development programme.
Assuming a successful appraisal well, production from the discovery could be brought onto production during 2007 or 2008.
Channon As a result of two transactions, Venture secured operatorship and a 54% average equity holding in blocks 47 3h and 47 8c containing the Channon prospect.
Subsurface work has been completed and an exploration well is planned for the second quarter 2006 as the first well to be drilled in the 2006 southern basin programme.
Development engineering work is ongoing to allow a fast-track development, following a successful well, to deliver first gas in 2007.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 9 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS PRODUCTION DELIVERY The Trees hub provides 27% of Venture's production.
The three fields, Birch, Larch and Sycamore, produced an average rate of 8,034 boepd net for 2005 2004: 7,473 boepd, the highest level since Venture became operator in 2000.
SIMON WISKER Oil Assets Manager REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Trees Block 16 12a Following the success of commercial negotiations with The Trees fields are located in the central North Sea CNR, the operator of the Tiffany platform located with production from Birch, Larch and Central Sycamore immediately south of the Trees fields, the South tied back to the Marathon operated Brae A platform Sycamore production well SP4 was successfully drilled and from there transported through the Forties Pipeline and completed as an oil producer towards the end of System.
Production from South Sycamore is from the 2005.
Drilling SP4 from the Tiffany platform enabled CNR operated Tiffany platform.
This production also is production start-up immediately upon completion of the exported via the Forties Pipeline System.
Due to the encouraging production performance, Birch the feasibility of drilling a water injection support well for Rejuvenation activity of the Birch field continued in 2005 South Sycamore from the Tiffany platform is being with a successful workover on the Z3 well, which added evaluated.
incremental production of over 2,000 boepd.
Coupled Ash with cyclical production from the Z5 well, Birch continues After securing commercial agreement with CNR, Venture to perform ahead of expectations.
Venture is currently plans to drill the Ash exploration well from the Tiffany evaluating an in-fill well on Birch to access unswept oil.
platform during the second half of 2006.
As with the Larch South Sycamore development, a successful Ash well Production from the Larch field was affected early in the would be brought on stream immediately following year through intermittent availability of high pressure gas drilling, representing a considerable saving of both cost lift.
However, a successful workover of the Larch and time over a more conventional subsea tie-back.
production well Z6, designed to improve gas lift efficiency at lower injection pressures, yielded incremental production of 1,000 boepd.
Greater Kittiwake Area GKA Production from the GKA hub located in the central North Sycamore Sea averaged 4,266 boepd net for 2005 2004: 1,946 The focus of Trees activity in 2005 was the Sycamore boepd representing 14% of Group total.
In November, the water injection well SW2 was include the producing Kittiwake, Mallard, Gadwall fields completed.
This well was drilled to support production and the Goosander field currently under development.
from Central Sycamore producer SP2 and water injection was started in January 2006.
It will take several months The Kittiwake platform represents the central processing to repressurise the reservoir and SP2 is expected to and export facility for the Kittiwake, Mallard and Gadwall restart production during the second quarter of this year.
Oil is then exported via the recently installed single anchor loading SAL system and a shuttle tanker.
Gas is Venture drilled a sidetrack well SW1 as a potential water exported into the Shell operated Fulmar gas line.
injection well to support production from Central Sycamore producer SP3.
The well found the reservoir The GKA area is a joint venture with Dana, with each section to be depleted as a result of production from SP3 party owning a 50% working interest in the fields and but the reservoir characteristics were insufficient to facilities, which are operated by Venture.
support completion of the well as an injector.
The In February this year, the Sedco 704 drilling rig was in the decision was taken not to sidetrack the well immediately process of moving from the Gadwall water injection well due to demands for the drilling rig in support of the to the Trees area.
During this routine move one of the Goosander development.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 11 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CREATIVE TEAMWORK Economic development of the Goosander oilfield necessitates a subsea tie back to utilise the existing infrastructure on our Kittiwake platform.
Teamwork with Subsea7 has resulted in the design and ongoing fabrication of one of the worlds longest moveable structures, a floatable pipeline bundle, which will accelerate the Goosander project by obviating the need to hire pipelay vessels, which are in high demand through 2008.
CHRIS BIRD Field Development Manager anchors caught the Mallard - Kittiwake pipeline.
The successful drilling of this well was a major Production was shut-in whilst an assessment of the achievement given the challenges of drilling through a damage was made.
Importantly, the pipeline was not high pressure section into a depleted reservoir.
ruptured and therefore there was no leakage of Venture plans to sidetrack the original water injection hydrocarbon.
However, damage was sustained to the well located in the northern part of the field to provide line at the Gadwall tie-in point.
Temporary repair to the additional support to the current producer.
This well is main Mallard - Kittiwake line has been completed and planned for the second half of this year.
Permanent repairs that Gadwall include reinstatement of Gadwall production are planned The Gadwall field was brought on stream successfully in for June.
It is important to recognise that without our April 2005, following a subsea tie-back of the production subsea construction contract with Subsea 7 these repairs well into the existing Mallard production pipeline.
would not have been possible in the time frame in which Production exceeded expectation to such an extent that they were achieved and we have averted the possibility a water injection well was drilled and completed in of longer delays to the reinstatement of production.
Production from this field is planned to Kittiwake recommence in the second quarter 2006 once pressure In 2005, the Kittiwake field continued to produce in line support has been established.
The principal value of the Kittiwake Goosander field is the manned platform and facilities that provides In January 2006, Venture obtained approval to develop the central hub over which current and future production the Goosander field.
The discovery well, 21 12-3, was is and will be processed.
A comprehensive maintenance drilled and tested in 1998 at rates of 8,200 bopd.
The and upgrade programme was started in 2005.
This is well was suspended for subsequent re-completion as a expected to result in improved efficiency and capacity as producer and this is scheduled to take place in mid 2006. we look to develop additional reserves and extend the Goosander will be developed as a subsea tie-back to the life of currently producing fields.
Kittiwake platform via a pipeline bundle currently under Mallard construction.
The bundle has been engineered to The Mallard field continued to produce above expectation accommodate water injection into Goosander subject to and provided economic justification for the drilling of a production performance.
First production is scheduled for water injection well, which was completed successfully third quarter 2006. during 2005.
This is providing pressure support to the production well, which is delivering production rates in excess of those anticipated.
12 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS The team at work on 7.5km section of pipeline at Subsea 7s Wick fabrication yard Grouse As anticipated under the unit area operating agreements, It is anticipated that the Grouse discovery will be Dana has exercised its option to acquire 50% of the appraised in 2007 and, as part of the Goosander interest in Christian and Bligh that Venture acquired in development, Venture is creating the provision for mid 2005. additional tie-back options to the Kittiwake facility.
The GKA Export potential Grouse development would tie-in directly into Perhaps the most innovative activity in the GKA area was the manifold at the base of the Goosander riser, the installation of a SAL oil export system.
Venture had benefiting in terms of both cost and timing over a standidentified the need to replace the Kittiwake loading alone development.
In the event of success first oil buoy to improve efficiency of the oil export system.
The opportunity to acquire and install existing equipment Christian and Bligh was recognised.
The offshore construction partnership Through several commercial agreements Venture with Subsea 7 enabled Venture to install the SAL system acquired a substantial working interests in Blocks 21 20a significantly faster and with considerable cost savings.
and 21 20b in the central North Sea immediately west of Additionally, it has resulted in an increase in the uptime the Venture operated GKA area.
These blocks contain the of oil export availability from the GKA area, resulting in a Christian and Bligh discoveries, two stranded assets that short pay-back period for the project.
add mid term development opportunities to Ventures Venture is currently reviewing longer term export portfolio.
solutions for GKA that include a fixed export pipeline to The Christian discovery lies 7km to the east of the the Forties system as well as a replacement tanker producing Venture operated Mallard field and was based solution.
discovered in 1990 by well 21 20b-4st2, which tested at a rate of 6,364 bopd.
Venture believes that a subsea tie-back to the existing Mallard subsea facilities is a feasible development option.
The Bligh gas condensate discovery lies to the south-east of Christian in Block 21 20b.
It was discovered in 1995 by the 21 20a-5 well and tested at rates of 2,750 bopd and 15.4 MMscfd.
Similar to Christian, a subsea tie-back to nearby infrastructure is the most likely development solution.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 13 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS COMMERCIAL DELIVERY Ventures focus on capturing the potential of stranded reserves is stronger than ever.
Thus far Ventures innovation and investment in new ideas and technology have released reserves in excess of 25 million barrels from fields that would have previously have been deemed uncommercial.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS STRATEGIC ALLIANCE In 2003 Venture gained operatorship of Chestnut, a small oilfield with reserves of circa 10million barrels.
Venture's team evaluated 12 separate development options.
With partners Sevan Marine we have committed to the SSP-300, an FPSO now under construction in China and scheduled for installation in summer 2007, accelerating first oil to the third quarter of that year.
The innovative design of the SSP-300 will lower the MIKE TRAVIS economic threshold for development of other Operations Manager stranded oil fields and, having taken a 20% share in the vessel, we are already working with our partners on follow-up projects.
Other Oil Chestnut Venture in September 2005 as part of the 23rd licence The Chestnut field is located in Block 22 2a and Venture round.
The Company has moved quickly to assess the operates with an equity interest of 69.875%.
In potential of this heavy oil discovery well, drilled in 1993, November 2005, Venture obtained Government approval by using the contracted drill ship.
to develop the field from two subsea wells tied-back to the Sevan Marine SSP-300 floating production facility.
The Selkirk 22 2-11x well, drilled in 2001, will be re-used along with Located in Block 22 22a, Venture has a 31.5% nona new water injection well to be drilled during the operated interest in the Selkirk field.
The operator second half of 2006.
The production facility is currently Nexen plans to drill an appraisal well in the fourth under construction and is scheduled for installation in quarter 2006 to assess development options for the field.
summer 2007, with production commencing shortly This accumulation may be a suitable candidate for thereafter.
Utilisation of the SSP-300 offers a solution that development using the SSP-300 production vessel.
minimises capital outlay and provides a re-usable, flexible Acorn and Beechnut and low-cost option that will enable the economic Venture acquired majority interests in and operatorship development of other stranded oil fields in the North of the Acorn and Beechnut fields through several Sea.
Acorn was discovered in 1983 and Venture has formed a strategic alliance with Sevan Beechnut in 1985, with both fields testing oil from their Marine, the owners of the SSP-300, as an anchor tenant respective discovery wells.
Several development options for deployment of the first unit in the North Sea.
The exist for these fields including conventional subsea tieCompany has taken a 20% interest in the ownership of backs or a floating solution.
Venture is looking at a joint the Chestnut SSP-300.
We also have secured a fixed and development of these fields with production by 2010. favourable day rate for use of the vessel in a follow on Halley and Appleton project.
Venture is currently reviewing the Halley and Appleton Pilot and 28 2 fields to assess the future potential as subsea tie-backs The Pilot field is located in Blocks 21 27a and 21 27b, to nearby infrastructure or as candidates for a floating which Venture operates with a 47.5% equity holding.
Venture has 100% equity interest in Block 21 27c.
Pilot is a shallow heavy-oil accumulation defined by four Exploration Activity exploration and appraisal wells, including one extended Through 2005, Venture has made progress with the well test.
Technical work by Venture has led to evaluation of several exploration opportunities in the agreement to drill a further appraisal well to establish existing portfolio close to our infrastructure.
Of particular and better define recoverable economic reserves.
A note we have identified a potential Audrey satellite, geotechnical drill ship, the Bucentaur, has been Adele, located to the north-east of the Audrey field.
contracted to drill this well in the second half 2006.
This Detailed well planning will commence in the first half of low cost solution enables Venture to obtain a full 2006 to support potential drilling in 2007. understanding of the potential commerciality of the field for minimum capital outlay.
In addition, Block 48 15b, awarded during the 22nd Licence round, is the subject of seismic reprocessing, with Following a successful Pilot well, the Bucentaur will drill a plan in place to define drillable prospects in 2006 for an appraisal of the 28 2-1 discovery well immediately inclusion in Ventures 2007 drilling programme.
This block was awarded 100% to VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 15 BUILDING ALLIANCES There was steady growth in the demand for resources required to develop oil and gas fields in 2005.
During the year Venture created a number of strategic contracts and set up a contract management process to help maximise value and agility in delivering successful projects.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS The SSP-300 under construction in China, end 2005 ROD BEGBIE Corporate Development Manager Contracts Access to steel for line pipe and tubulars is achieved by Access to drilling rigs is an essential requirement and having a framework agreement and excellent during 2005 contracts were secured with Noble and relationships with Marubeni Itochu Tubulars Europe.
The Transocean for drilling units for both our southern North steel market is extremely tight globally and the Company Sea and central North Sea activities.
Looking ahead, we requires access both to steel quotas and steel mills for have secured the Noble Ton van Langeveld semidelivery of pipe that is competitively priced and submersible drilling rig and the Noble Julie Robertson aggressive in terms of deliver dates.
This has removed a high level of uncertainty and has enabled the Company to These major strategic contractors along with our other plan for longer-term growth.
strategic framework agreements are being managed Access to vessels for diving, remote control vehicles, using an integrated project management approach.
This pipe-lay, tugs and the like is now provided under a has proved to be successful over the last 12 months in preferred contractor framework agreement with Subsea project delivery.
Venture continues to work to enhance 7.
Subsea 7 has elevated Venture to a preferred client value through driving further improvements in the basis, which will help to ensure that we can deliver our relationships, people and processes to ensure projects and provide rapid response to inspection, repair sustainability of project delivery in the longer term.
This has been extremely successful through 2005 and continues to provide real value as we move into 2006.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 17
