Operating Review THE FASTEST Group performance Divisional performance GROWING AND MOST Group revenue for 2005 was marginally lower Ceramics division PROFITABLE REGION than in 2004, being 1% lower at reported exchange rates and 2% lower at constant Known in its markets as Vesuvius, the Ceramics FOR THE GROUP exchange rates.
Revenue trends were similar division is the world leader in the supply of CONTINUED TO between the first and second half of the year on advanced flow control refractory products and a constant currency basis, with a 2% decline for BE ASIA-PACIFIC, systems to the global steel industry and a leading both periods.
From continuing operations, which supplier of specialist ceramics products to the WHICH ACCOUNTED exclude the results of the Laminates and glass and foundry industries.
It is also the regional FOR 20% OF GROUP Specialty Coating Systems SCS businesses, leader in the US, UK and Australia in the supply revenue was also marginally lower, being 1% REVENUE FROM and installation of monolithic refractory linings.
lower at reported exchange rates and 3% lower The division had another strong year with CONTINUING at constant exchange rates.
revenue growth in higher margin products and OPERATIONS IN The substantial progress made towards improved operating efficiencies resulting in a achieving the margin targets, set out in our record level of profitability.
The year was also 2005 AND 43% OF strategic plan announced on 18 January 2005, marked by a change in leadership following the TRADING PROFIT.
meant that trading profit increased by 13% at retirement in October 2005 of the divisions Chief reported exchange rates and 11% at constant Executive, Gian Carlo Cozzani.
Francois Wanecq, exchange rates compared to the prior year.
From who has considerable experience of the ceramics continuing operations, the growth rates were industry, joined Cookson in June and became 14% and 11% respectively.
Our two largest Chief Executive of the Ceramics division on the divisions Ceramics and Electronics which retirement of Mr Cozzani.
together make up 83% of Group revenue from continuing operations, both reported Market overview significantly higher levels of profitability than in The Ceramics division benefited from the good the prior year.
Trading profit from continuing market conditions experienced in 2004 continuing operations in the Ceramics division increased by throughout 2005.
24% to 73.9 million and by 9% to 51.1 million in The divisions largest sector is Iron and Steel, the Electronics division.
The Precious Metals resulting in around 60% of its revenues and division, which constitutes 17% of Group revenue trading profit being linked to steel production from continuing operations, reported trading volumes.
In 2005, global steel production rose by profit lower by just over one-third at 7.0 million.
6% to over 1.1 billion tonnes, only the second year Return on sales for the Group of 8.0% has in which steel production has exceeded 1 billion improved by one percentage point compared to tonnes.
Following the 9% growth in 2004, the rate 2004.
From continuing operations, the Groups of growth slowed during 2005, being 7% in the return on sales is now 8.3%, 1.1 percentage points first half and 6% in the second half of the year.
Both Ceramics and China reinforced its position as the worlds leading Electronics recorded good growth in return on steel producer with year-on-year growth of 25% sales from continuing operations with margins and accounted for over 30% of the worlds total very close to, or already achieving, double-digit production in 2005.
Outside of China, global levels.
production was down by 1% with strong growth in The fastest growing and most profitable India of 17% albeit from a small base being region for the Group continued to be Asia-Pacific, more than offset by lower production in the which accounted for 20% of Group revenue from enlarged European Union down by 4% and the continuing operations in 2005 and 43% of US down by 6%.
Whilst steel prices fell by up to trading profit.
Whilst NAFTA which comprises 20% during 2005, following the very strong the US, Canada and Mexico and Europe remain increase in prices in 2004, the industrys financial the Groups largest regions in terms of revenue, position remains strong.
The consolidation of the higher levels of growth outside these regions has steel industry continued in 2005 and this trend is seen their combined share of Group revenue expected to continue.
This is anticipated to be from continuing operations fall from 79% in particularly marked in China, where the 2004 to 75% in 2005. government has stated its intention to create a small number of industry champions out of the current very fragmented market place.
For example, Chinese steel producers Anshan and Benxi have merged during the year to form Anben Iron & Steel, which now rivals Baosteel as Chinas leading steel producer.
Cookson Group plc { 12 } Annual Report 2005 Ceramics The end-markets of the Foundry, Glass and Industrial Products sectors are generally Revenue by Sector linked to GDP growth.
Whilst 2005 was a year of overall global economic growth, Glass the most important markets for these sectors construction and automotive Foundry 9% experienced mixed fortunes.
Whilst the construction industry performed well, notably 9% in China, vehicle production in the automotive industry was broadly flat in both the established markets of the US and Europe.
Demand for solar energy and thus for the Industrial Iron and Products Glass sectors crucibles used in the manufacture of photovoltaic cells was strong.
Steel 21% 61% Divisional performance The Ceramics division experienced a very strong year as a result of growth in global steel production combined with the beneficial impact of the various restructuring initiatives carried out during the last two years.
Revenue for the year at 746 million was 1% higher than 2004 at reported exchange rates but 1% lower at constant exchange rates.
In December 2004, two plants based in Belgium and Germany, which Revenue made bricks used in glass-making furnaces, were divested.
Excluding the revenues from million these businesses, revenue for the division was up 5% at reported exchange rates and 3% at constant exchange rates.
All of the divisions market sectors Iron and Steel, Glass, Foundry and Industrial Products reported underlying revenue growth.
Trading 03 704 profit grew strongly by 24% at reported exchange rates to 73.9 million the highest level ever achieved by the division and was up 21% at constant exchange rates.
All 04 market sectors reported trading profit growth, with particularly strong performances 739 from the Foundry and Glass sectors.
Return on sales was close to double-digit at 9.9%, up nearly two percentage points from the 8.0% reported in 2004.
05 746 The Iron and Steel sector accounted for 61% of revenue for the year with Glass and Foundry each making up 9%.
Industrial Products, which includes the Construction and Installation activity, accounted for the remaining 21%.
Europe and NAFTA are the divisions two largest regions with each making up 39% of the total divisions revenue.
However, the two fastest growing regions are Trading Profit Asia-Pacific and the Rest of the World which together made up 22% of the divisions million total revenue, an increase of two percentage points on 2004.
03 52.4 04 59.4 05 73.9 Return on Sales % 03 7.4 04 8.0 05 9.9 Flow control refractory products are pre-heated before being used to contain and control the flow of molten steel.
Cookson is the world leader in the supply of advanced flow control refractory products and systems.
Cookson Group plc { 13 } Annual Report 2005 Operating Review continued Sector performance During 2005 we continued our programme to balance Iron and Steel production facilities and markets geographically, The Iron and Steel sector supplies flow control products and progressively investing in emerging economies while linings to the iron and steel industry.
Flow control products restructuring as necessary in more mature markets.
In protect and control the stream of molten metal as it passes NAFTA, the modernisation and rationalisation of plants through the continuous cast steel-making process.
Linings continued with the closure of the facility in Hillsboro are bricks or monolithics which are used to line the main Texas and upgrades to the VISO facilities at Charleston steel-making vessels.
Further rationalisation of Good industry conditions resulted in a 4% increase in facilities is expected in 2006 and 2007.
The level of nonrevenue for 2005 at reported exchange rates and an production headcount was also reviewed during the year increase of 3% at constant exchange rates.
With resulting in a reduction of 50 personnel in sales and increased sales of the high technology, higher margin administration in December 2005.
In Europe, the facility in flow control products, profitability increased on last year Oleggio Italy was closed whilst capacity was increased in driven by the increased revenue and the impact of the the flow control facilities in Skawina Poland and Ostrava restructuring initiatives.
The sector recorded a doubleCzech Republic in order to better serve the growing digit return on sales.
General and administration Regionally, the sectors performance reflected the personnel were also reduced in Europe by 40 in December trends seen in its end markets.
In other regions, the rationalisation of our two South Pacific increased by 16% from 2004 to 2005.
This was African plants into one was completed whilst capacity was primarily driven by significant increases of 25% in China increased in our VISO facility in Brazil.
and 17% in India, both markets in which Vesuvius has a strong market presence.
Revenue in Asia-Pacific grew 17% Glass between 2004 and 2005 reflecting our ability to capture The Glass sector produces block linings for melting tanks, this strong market growth.
Chinese steel production rolls for glass tempering as well as crucibles for making remained strong despite government attempts to slow photovoltaic solar energy products.
growth and encourage consolidation within the industry.
We Demand for flat glass is primarily dependent upon believe Vesuvius is well placed to capture future growth in conditions in the construction and automotive industries, China and, during the year, capacity was significantly with the former in particular continuing to enjoy good increased at both our Suzhou VISO factory and at the slide market conditions in 2005, driven in part by very strong gate joint venture with Wuhan Iron & Steel.
Despite competition from plastics and shareholding in this joint venture was increased from 25% other materials, glass remains the material of choice for to 50% during the year.
Vesuvius is similarly well placed in glazing and the packaging of many drinks and other liquids, the Indian market through its 56% shareholding in Vesuvius and the demand for container glass continues to be stable.
Revenue in the Glass sector fell by 24% compared to The enlarged 25-member EU reported a 4% reduction 2004 at both reported and constant exchange rates but, in steel production in 2005 with lower production in the excluding the revenue of the European brick-making UK, Germany, Belgium and France.
Italy and Spain showed businesses sold in December 2004, revenue was 12% marginal growth.
Despite the reduction in steel production, higher than last year.
This growth reflected both good revenue was 1% ahead of the prior year, at constant conditions for the glass industry plus strong growth of the exchange rates.
Steel production was 5% lower in NAFTA crucibles business, whose products are used in the driven by a 6% reduction in the US.
This was reflected in manufacture of the material that makes up solar panels.
our revenue for this region being 6% lower when Profitability increased by 70% on last year with a doublecompared to 2004. digit return on sales.
2005 saw continued upward pressure on raw material, In the hot furnaces area, the sectors US business energy and transportation costs.
However, the majority of Monofrax, which manufactures fused-cast products used in this impact was negated through price increases to glass-making furnaces, performed strongly due to expansion customers or through more efficient purchasing, such that in Europe and Asia.
In the area of glass transforming, sales the sectors margin over material costs remained broadly of high performance Zyarock products notably rollers comparable to 2004. which are used in the glass tempering industry, were ahead In the Iron and Steel sector, we continued to invest in new of last year, driven in part by strong demand for plasma products to ensure that Vesuvius maintains its marketdisplay panels.
In June 2005, the sectors US technical leading technological position.
A new range of stopper noses ceramics business, McDanel, was sold.
The business had was introduced, capable of casting a wide range of steel revenue of 2.4 million in the year to the date of sale grades, along with some new cold-start ladle shrouds.
Our 4.9 million for the full year in 2004 and contributed slide-gate product was enhanced by a new range of alumina some 0.4 million of the sectors trading profit in the year.
carbon plates with improved thermal shock resistance.
Cookson Group plc { 14 } Annual Report 2005 Electronics The growth in the solar crucibles business, which manufactures products used in the Revenue by Sector photovoltaic industry, was driven by significant increases in oil prices and heightened environmental concerns which, in turn, increased demand for energy from renewable Chemistry sources, including solar.
Demand for solar crucibles is expected to remain strong 44% going forward, although limited supplies of the polysilicon material used in the majority of solar panels may restrict growth in the short-term until additional capacity comes on stream.
New products are being introduced to meet the Assembly Materials increasing demands of our customers in this market, including a range of new jumbo 56% solar crucibles.
Foundry The Foundry sector supplies an extensive range of high performance refractory products to ferrous and non-ferrous foundries.
Revenue increased by 7% at reported exchange rates and 6% at constant rates, Revenue with growth in NAFTA and Continental Europe more than offsetting a small decline million in the UK.
Activities in Europe and NAFTA each account for some 45% of the sector total.
Profitability increased strongly on last year with a return on sales close to double-digit.
03 439 Market conditions were generally good, particularly in investment casting and steel foundries.
Investment casting benefited from strong worldwide aerospace and 04 industrial gas turbine demand.
473 Industrial Products 05 489 The Industrial Products sector provides a wide range of refractory products for a diversified range of industries which in general follow GDP trends, including hydrocarbon processing, petrochemical, cement and incineration.
This sector also supplies and installs monolithic refractory linings into a variety of industries.
Unlike most of the Ceramics divisions activities, the activities of the sector are mainly Trading Profit project-based and therefore linked to overall new investment and renewal projects.
million Revenue increased by 4% at reported exchange rates 2% at constant rates driven by some limited growth in NAFTA and flat revenue in other regions.
33.9 03 The sector revenue arises in Europe 29%, NAFTA 54% and Australia 17%.
04 47.0 Electronics division The Electronics division is a leading supplier of advanced surface treatment and 05 51.1 plating chemicals and assembly materials to the automotive, construction and electronics markets.
2005 marked a year of strong progress for the Electronics division following the changes in focus and leadership implemented in late 2004.
In response to changing Return on Sales customer attitudes, the division abandoned the pursuit of the one-stop shop % approach by unbundling its PCB-orientated products and services, particularly in Laminates and Chemistry.
This enabled the Chemistry sector to reposition resources 03 7.7 to its important industrial markets which account for half of its business and allowed Laminates to focus on maintaining its profitability in difficult markets.
The announcement in December 2005 of the disposal of the Laminates business further 04 9.9 strengthened the division by reducing its exposure to this lower margin and more cyclical part of the electronics market.
05 10.5 continuing operations Cookson Group plc { 15 } Annual Report 2005 Operating Review continued Market overview SALES OF LEAD-FREE Following the disposals of the Laminates business and of SCS completed at the end SOLDER IN 2005 WERE of 2005, only about two-thirds of the divisions continuing revenue now comes from electronics markets, with the remainder deriving from automotive and other THREE TIMES HIGHER industrial markets.
The improved market conditions in the global electronics industry that were evident in 2004 have continued throughout 2005.
In 2005, the semi-conductor industry grew 6% by value whilst printed circuit board PCB production grew 2% by value and 6% by volume.
Electronic equipment production grew by 8% by value in 2005 driven by strong consumer-led demand for PCs, mobile telephones, games consoles, plasma screen televisions and MP3 players.
Consumers continue to drive the electronics industry to an ever-increasing degree and consumer purchases now account for 45% of worldwide electronic equipment sales.
Global PC sales grew by 15% by volume in 2005, whilst the total annual production of mobile phones reached 810 million units, a 14% increase over 2004.
Regionally, Asia-Pacific experienced the strongest growth as a result of both production capacity migrating to this region and also strong local end-market demand.
PCB production, for example, whilst growing 2% worldwide saw declines in both the US and Europe 8% and 10% respectively being more than offset by growth of 20% in China.
The transition to lead-free products accelerated strongly in 2005 in anticipation of new EU regulations coming into force in mid-2006 and similar developments in other regions.
The use of lead-free products is a significant change, not just for the Assembly Materials sector, whose solder products have traditionally contained lead.
Non-lead solders melt at higher temperatures and so all other PCB components, including fabrication chemistries, must also be able to withstand these temperatures.
The increasing move to lead-free products is expected to continue over the next few years.
For the non-electronics markets it was a mixed picture.
Whilst 2005 was a year of overall global economic growth, the most important non-electronics market for the division, the automotive industry, was subdued with vehicle production broadly flat in both the established markets of the US and Europe.
Enthone AlphaSTAR silver finish enables lead-free printed wiring board assembly processing.
Introduced in the first quarter of 2005, AlphaSTAR has already secured an established and growing market share, and has gained approval by the worlds leading computer, telecommunications and automotive OEMs.
Cookson Group plc { 16 } Annual Report 2005 Assembly Materials Divisional performance Revenue Revenue for the year from continuing and discontinued operations at 643 million million was 3% higher than last year at reported exchange rates 1% at constant exchange rates.
Excluding the impact of lower tin prices in the Assembly Materials sector, revenue would have been 4% higher at reported exchange rates 2% at constant 03 222 exchange rates.
Trading profit from both continuing and discontinued operations increased by 8% to 57.8 million, giving a return on sales for the division of 9.0% 04 2004: 8.6%.
258 From continuing operations excluding the results of the Laminates sector and SCS, revenue for the year grew by 3% at reported exchange rates to 489 million, 05 273 whilst trading profit grew by 9%.
Return on sales increased by 0.6 percentage points to 10.5%, in line with the target for the end of 2007 set in January 2005 as adjusted for IFRS.
The achievement of this 2007 target reflects the improvement in underlying profitability, notably in Assembly Materials, but also the exiting of lower margin products and businesses such as the Laminates business.
Trading Profit Assembly Materials was the divisions largest sector, accounting for 43% of both million revenue and trading profit.
Chemistry, the most profitable sector, accounted for 33% of revenue but 45% of trading profit.
Discontinued operations the Laminates sector 03 14.0 and SCS accounted for 24% of revenue but only 12% of trading profit.
Asia-Pacific, the divisions fast-growing region, was responsible for 37% of 04 revenue from continuing operations, an increase of three percentage points over 19.7 2004.
Europe accounted for 32%, NAFTA 28%, and the Rest of the World 3%.
05 24.5 Sector performance Assembly Materials The electronics industry PCB assembly and semi-conductor packaging markets accounts for approximately 70% of Assembly Materials revenue, with the remaining 30% going into a variety of industrial applications.
Return on Sales Revenue from continuing operations for the year at 273 million was 6% higher % than the prior year at reported exchange rates 4% at constant exchange rates.
However in 2005, the average price of tin the sectors major raw material was 9% 03 6.3 lower than for 2004.
The lower cost of tin was, in the main, passed on to customers 04 7.6 05 9.0 continuing operations Lead-free solder bar Over the past four years Cookson has led the field in developing lead-free solder technologies.
Cookson Group plc { 17 } Annual Report 2005 Operating Review continued during the year, such that underlying revenue was 6% Chemistry higher than last year at constant exchange rates.
The End-markets for the Chemistry sectors plating chemical revenue growth reflected the good growth in PCB products are split equally between the electronics industry production noted above but more difficult markets for and, in equal measure, for other industrial and automotive solder products used in non-electronics applications.
Trading profit of 24.5 million was 24% higher than last Revenue for the year of 216 million was flat at reported year at reported exchange rates 20% at constant exchange exchange rates and down 2% at constant exchange rates.
rates reflecting the growth in underlying volumes, the This reflected underlying growth in PCB-related products higher profitability of lead-free products and the impact of driven by the worldwide growth in semi-conductor and PCB cost saving initiatives.
Return on sales increased strongly volumes being negated by an over-stocking issue for semifrom 7.6% to 9.0%.
conductor products in the prior year, modest growth in Asia-Pacific, the sectors largest region, accounted for industrial markets, and the deliberate exit from several low 48% of revenue, an increase of 4 percentage points over margin, commoditised industrial products.
This reflected the continued migration of PCB conductor market, the sectors copper damascene and leadassembly to this region and the increased size and influence free immersion silver products reported strong revenue of Asian contract manufacturers.
Europe and NAFTA each growth, whilst in industrial markets our range of plating on accounted for 24% of revenue and the Rest of the World 4%.
plastics and corrosion and wear-resistant coatings products The transition to lead-free solder products continued to also grew strongly.
be an important technology driver for the sector in 2005, Trading profit declined 3% to 26.6 million at with the conversion to these products increasing reported exchange rates and down 4% at constant rates, significantly across all product lines.
Sales of lead-free largely driven by the impact of the overstocking in 2004 solder in 2005 were three times higher than in 2004.
In the of high-margin semi-conductor copper damascene fourth quarter of 2005, 32% of solder sales were lead-free products.
Return on sales remained strong at 12.3% compared with 4% in the corresponding quarter in 2004.
The Semi-conductor Packaging materials business, Europe and NAFTA remain the sectors largest regions which provides epoxy mould compounds, underfills and with 43% and 33% of total sector revenue, respectively.
solder spheres to the electronics industry, faced continuing European revenue was relatively unchanged, despite weak difficult market conditions in 2005 with revenue down industrial markets, flat vehicle production volumes and marginally on last year.
In response, headcount reductions continued migration of the electronics industry to Asiawere enacted in the first half of the year.
Revenue in NAFTA was down 2% on last year SCS had another good year, with growth in the coating primarily due to weak demand for PCB-related products, flat services and equipment segments of its business.
On vehicle production volumes, and temporary fide-stocking in 31 December 2005, SCS was sold as it was not regarded as the first quarter of the year by the sole distributor of high part of our core electronics business.
The business had margin copper damascene products for the high revenue of 20 million in 2005 and contributed 4.8 million performance semi-conductor market.
This fide-stocking of the sectors trading profit for the year.
The results of this followed a build-up in inventory of this product by the business have been included in discontinued operations in distributor in the fourth quarter of 2004.
The underlying the financial statements.
demand for copper damascene, however, remains healthy The increasing demands placed on electronic devices, as with growth of over 25% per annum.
In the Asia-Pacific they are required to meet more stringent environmental region, which accounts for 23% of the sectors revenue, regulations, combined with the trend towards devices revenue increased marginally 1% at reported exchange becoming smaller and more portable has placed greater rates, mainly due to the growth in products directed at the emphasis on new product development.
During the year a PCB market being offset by a decrease in sales of lowernumber of new products were launched including Alpha margin industrial products.
SACX, a proprietary lower cost lead-free solder with a low Investment during the course of the year focused on silver content.
Firstly, new products have been developed Continued investment continues to be made in R&D and to maintain our leadership position in the high performance new product development.
A research centre in Bangalore semi-conductor industry.
These included new versions of the India, opened in October 2004, has been expanded and copper damascene product able to meet the demands of the now employs 28 research personnel.
This facility focuses on next generation of silicon chip as they migrate from 90nm to developing leading edge technologies for a wide range of 65nm node technology, and products for the wafer bumping applications including electronics assembly, nanoprocess, which is increasingly being utilised with the growth technology and opto-electronics.
In addition, in 2005 two in flip chip technologies for high performance silicon chip new R&D technology centres, shared with the Chemistry applications.
Secondly, for industrial markets product sector, were opened in Shanghai and Shenzhen to provide development has been focused on higher-end applications, strong technical support and new product capabilities to including: plating on plastics, a development with particular our Chinese and other Asia-Pacific customers.
use in automotive applications as they seek to reduce the Cookson Group plc { 18 } Annual Report 2005 Chemistry component weight: environmentally friendly products capable of meeting the new Revenue legislation being introduced in Europe and elsewhere in 2006 including hexavalent million chromium-free, lead-free and cadmium-free products: and improved corrosion and wear-resistant coatings.
Thirdly, the sector continued to build its global presence in line with customer needs and, in particular, to respond to the migration of the 03 217 electronics and certain other manufacturing industries from the mature markets of the West to Asia-Pacific.
In Europe and NAFTA, headcount has been reduced and the 04 216 facility in Irvine California closed.
Capacity has been increased in our Mexican facility.
In Asia-Pacific, two new R&D technology centres, shared with the Assembly Materials sector, were opened in Shanghai and Shenzhen, further developing the sectors 05 216 capabilities and infrastructure in this fast-growing region.
Trading Profit million 03 19.9 04 27.3 26.6 05 Return on Sales % 03 9.2 04 12.7 05 12.3 Enthone plating on plastics technologies and decorative finishes are widely specified and used by the worlds leading OEMs.
Our PEARLBRITE satin nickel finishes are the plating industrys standard for coating a diversity of automobile parts, as well as interior design finishes.
Laminates On 15 December 2005, the disposal of the Laminates business was announced.
Completion of the disposal is conditional upon clearance from the competition authorities in Europe which is expected in the first half of 2006.
The results of this sector have been included in discontinued operations in the financial statements.
Laminates, the only one of the divisions three sectors whose products are sold exclusively into the electronics industry, had another difficult year.
Trading losses in the first half of the year were made up in the second half leaving the sector with a small net trading profit for the year.
General market conditions were unchanged compared to last year with the market remaining highly competitive and marked by significant over-capacity.
The trend of PCB fabricator customers, such as Viasystems, to migrate their operations from NAFTA and Europe to Asia-Pacific and China in particular accelerated during the year.
Demand for products related to high reliability server applications and lead-free assembly which require higher assembly temperatures helped drive the higher-end of the market, whilst the market for more standard product was very weak.
Cookson Group plc { 19 } Annual Report 2005 Operating Review continued Revenue for the year at 134 million was 1% higher than the Precious Metals division prior year at reported exchange rates although unchanged at constant exchange rates.
Volumes of higher margin products, The Precious Metals division is a leading supplier of such as GETEK and other high temperature reliability fabricated precious metals primarily gold, silver and laminates, were strong.
However, this growth was more than platinum to the jewellery industry in the US, UK, France and offset by both reduced volumes and prices for lower-end Spain.
Products include alloy materials, semi-finished products and the exit in the US from the rigid laminates jewellery components and finished jewellery.
Trading profit was 1.9 million, down from the 2.5 million Market overview result in 2004.
2005 saw the continuation of difficult market conditions in The regional split showed the increasing importance of both of our key markets, the US and Europe.
Demand for Asia-Pacific which accounted for 53% of the sectors finished jewellery products is influenced to a large extent by revenue in 2005, an increase of 7 percentage points over both consumer confidence and consumer preferences.
NAFTA provided 27% of revenue and Europe 20%.
Consumer confidence was depressed in the US and in Year-on-year revenue growth illustrated the trend of Europe and this trend was exacerbated by the shift in customer migration with growth of 16% in Asia-Pacific but customers discretionary spend away from jewellery declines of 4% and 23% in NAFTA and Europe respectively.
products and more towards consumer electronic products Despite the almost total migration of mass PCB production such as mobile phones and MP3 players.
to Asia-Pacific, a presence in the West is required as much The preference of buyers and wearers of jewellery for of the specification and qualification process continues to white metals and gemstones, which was evident in 2004, take place in this region, as does production of highcontinued in 2005.
The price of precious metals performance PCBs.
particularly gold also has an impact on demand.
As prices The sector continues to focus on developing its high increase, the weight of gold in the finished product is temperature reliability products, such as Polyclad 370HR typically reduced to meet retailer price points.
In addition, and GETEK HR, which are targeted at applications such as retailers are reluctant to hold inventory when prices are high-end servers, power supplies and network and high.
Gold traded at around US$420 ounce in the first half telecommunications equipment.
of the year but then rose steeply throughout the second The accelerated migration of its customer base and its half to finish the year at around US$520 ounce.
unsatisfactory financial performance resulted in significant further restructuring during the year.
In NAFTA, headcount Divisional performance was reduced following the exit from the low margin rigid The divisions revenue of 246 million was 15% lower than laminates business.
In Europe, following an initial last year at both reported and constant exchange rates, downsizing in the first half of the year, the German facility reflecting the very difficult market conditions.
Net sales was completely closed in the fourth quarter with all value, which excludes the precious metal content, of 95 remaining production transferred to Sweden.
Headcount million was 18% lower than 2004 both at reported and was also reduced at the Swedish facility.
Trading profit decreased by just Raw material costs increased sharply for two of the over one-third to 7.0 million, giving a return on net sales sectors main commodities, copper foil and epoxy resin, value of 7.4% 2004: 9.3%.
although these increased costs were passed on to Net sales value for the divisions US operations, which customers.
Prices for woven glass cloth, the other principal constitute 57% of the total net sales value for the division, commodity, remained stable throughout the year.
fell by 20% to 54 million at reported exchange rates, reflecting both the weak market conditions and Tiffany, one of the regions largest customers, increasing its level of inhouse manufacturing.
In the second quarter, headcount was reduced by 8% and most activities in the region were consolidated onto a single site.
As a result of these costsaving initiatives, the return on net sales value increased marginally to 13.2% 2004: 13.0%.
Trading profit reduced by 1.6 million to 7.1 million.
Cookson Group plc { 20 } Annual Report 2005 Precious Metals In Europe, net sales value fell by 16% to 41 million, reflecting unprecedented falls Net Sales Value by Sector in the demand for jewellery products in our three key markets of the UK, France and Spain.
Hallmarking of gold jewellery items in the UK fell by 18% in 2005 US compared to 2004.
This resulted in a small trading loss of 0.1 million for the year Jewellery European 2004: 2.1 million profit.
The 2004 restructuring plan for the French operations, Jewellery 57% which included exiting from manufacturing and the relocation of the sales force, 43% was completed in the year.
Given the unsatisfactory trading performance in the UK, the UK operations will be refocused starting in 2006.
An increased emphasis on selling via the internet and the existing call-centre will help drive sales whilst, at the same time, reducing selling costs.
Central corporate costs The Groups central corporate costs, being the costs directly related to managing the Net Sales Value Group holding company, were 8.5 million, 4% lower than last year despite the million significant one-off costs associated with the Companys fide-registration from the SEC and the transition to IFRS.
The underlying reduction in ongoing costs reflects the 03 125 programme to streamline activities launched in late 2004.
04 116 05 95 Trading Profit million 03 9.7 04 10.8 05 7.0 Return on Net Sales Value % 7.8 03 Findings produced by Cookson Precious Metals Findings are components such as beads, pins and balls used to make jewellery.
They are so-called because traditional craftsmen would make such components from pieces of gold they would find on their workbench.
04 9.3 05 7.4 excludes the precious metals content of revenue Cookson Group plc { 21 } Annual Report 2005
