The W The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2005 eir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Engineering Products: includes the combined activities of our Minerals, Clear Liquid and Valves operations which collectively delivered excellent results in 2005, growing their input, revenue and profits when compared to last year.
Operating 60 Up profit m 31.5% 45 30 Operating profit Revenue Order Input 15 42.3m 505.6m 559.7m Up 31.5% Up 13.2% Up 11.5% 2004 2005 Operational review Key achievements Input grew 11.5% to 559.7m with excellent results from Minerals and Successful restructuring of Valves & Controls and Clear Liquid the addition of Gabbioneta in Clear Liquid offsetting planned reductions in UK operations.
our UK Valves & Controls operations.
Revenue grew 13.2% to 505.6m Successful integration of Gabbioneta into Clear Liquid.
Minerals activity achieves highest ever level of new work.
Before restructuring costs, operating profit from Engineering Products grew 31.5% to 42.3m with an underlying margin of 8.4% against Relocation of Valves & Controls UK operation to a smaller, modern site.
Disposal of non core Valves actuator activities: Weir Flowguard.
The collective businesses work closely together and share many facets of their operations across geographic and product boundaries.
The businesses continue to combine their activities in the emerging markets where individually they would be unable to fund the necessary cost.
In China, we have invested in a purchasing, logistics and quality infrastructure which actively manages the low cost sourcing of components for the Group.
The growing demand for oil, power and mining products, and our growing share of the domestic market, make it essential for Weir to have a presence in China.
Our approach has been to combine our collective needs: Minerals investing in a foundry, Valves in an assembly and test facility and all activities sharing sales offices in the key industrial centres.
The restructuring activities at both Weir Pumps and the UK Valves business were critical elements to the improved performance of the Engineering Products group.
6 Operational Review Mining On a commodity basis coal, alumina, copper, iron ore, platinum and gold prices held at or near historically high levels over the year, prompting increased levels of both new plant construction and upgrading, particularly in the traditional mining markets of South America and Australia.
The booming oil sands mines in Canada also provided some large equipment orders for Weir engineering products businesses.
Power Power generation is a strong and growing market for Weir engineering products businesses.
The traditional power markets of Western Europe and North America continue to demand lifeextension, plant refurbishment and enhancement solutions.
China remained the focus of newbuild activity for both conventional and nuclear power stations, with good opportunities also in India.
Weirs track record in safety and delivery has given us a strong position in the nuclear upgrade market in the Former Soviet Union.
Oil & Gas Oil prices continued to be high in 2005, which meant that both the upstream and downstream oil markets were buoyant, growing globally at over 4% and at much higher levels in some markets where we are strong.
With high oil prices increasing the cost of pipeline downtime, the reliability of Weir products, and our ability to deliver local engineering support have proved important factors in winning new work.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Minerals: Specialist businesses delivering and supporting slurry equipment solutions for global mining and mineral processing, the power sector, and general industry.
350 300 250 200 Product brands: 150 Order input WARMAN GEHO 100 Scot Smith CAVEX 324.3m Divisional Managing Director ISOGATE 2004 2005 Up 18.1% VULCO Operational review Key achievements 2005 was a very busy, successful and challenging year for Weir Minerals, Slurry pump unit sales grew 55% in 2005. with the operational capabilities of our facilities stretched by strong Awarded first major Canadian oil sands order from Canadian National commodity and flue gas desulphurisation markets.
The good progress Resources Limited.
made since 2001 on the Minerals businesses journey to Lean principles certainly contributed to the sustainability of continuing record input levels.
Secured majority of slurry pump orders for new minerals projects in We have reconfirmed our commitment to fully implementing Lean alumina, nickel and coal mines in Australia.
principles in all of our facilities and look for continued aggressive progress Weir Netherlands secured major orders for  pumps in 2006. for iron ore pipelines in China and Brazil.
We took action in 2005 to better align our development activities to Investment in the Russian market delivered 52% increase in order intake.
Our coordinated marketing group has worked closely with Weir Minerals Technology Centre to ensure our development activities South American business secured orders for the Alunorte bauxite match market needs.
Our strategy of taking existing product to new markets expansion, and iron ore centres at Brucutu and Samarco.
and introducing new product to our established markets has continued to New, patented vortex-less cyclone proven to deliver significant deliver success.
A number of new products went into field trials in the fourth competitive and performance advantages.
quarter of the year and we are excited about the prospects for these products as they go into operation over the coming months.
New knife gate valve launched for North American flue gas desulphurisation application.
Most of the Minerals product ranges experienced growth in 2005 and for both Warman centrifugal pumps and GEHO  pumps Foundry and assembly operation approved in Suzhou, China.
it was an exceptional year.
Significant equipment orders were received from a variety of large customers in 2005, including Alcoa, BHP Billiton, CNRL, CVRD, Inco, and Vedanta.
Applications included plant milling circuits, process transfer and long distance slurry pipelines.
Weir Minerals businesses have also continued their geographical expansion in 2005, with significant growth in India and Russia and a restructured sales operation now offering better coverage of the African continent.
Through a lot of hard work and diligence, we secured regulatory approval to invest in a wholly-owned greenfield site in China.
Looking forward, we are consolidating our market offering in elastomers, through cooperation with Weir Clear Liquid.
This will result in the Salt Lake City rubber business joining the Minerals group of companies in order to bring development activities closer to our customers needs.
We are working closely with Weir Services in Canada to distribute our product and grow our already significant share of that market.
We are also currently working with Weir Valves & Controls companies to package our nuclear products under the Weir umbrella to better service that market.
I have been delighted by the way in which all our operations have risen to meet record demand and particularly by the success of our people development programmes enabling individuals to take on bigger roles and better prepare us for an exciting future.
We are working aggressively to open up capacity in order to deliver against operational measures aligned to customer support and I remain optimistic that 2006 will continue to see the activity levels experienced in 2005.
Scot Smith, Divisional Managing Director 8 Operational Review Case Study Weir Minerals best-in-class products are Ravensthorpe Nickel Project, designed and built to reduce downtime Australia and minimise disruption in heavy duty, The cutting edge Aus$1.5 billion Ravensthorpe nickel project in the south of abrasive or corrosive processes.
A robust Western Australia has awarded Weir Warman record-breaking multi-million Aus$ contracts global supply operation is backed by to supply slurry pumps and knife gate valves.
The equipment selected for this laterite nickel excellent local engineering support.
project includes the 400 TU-MCH series pumps for arduous cyclone feed duties.
MCH pumps feature a self-centering shaft seal and an Primary input breakdown: adjustable throatbush, which improves throughput efficiency by allowing continuous Minerals 69% adjustment while the pump is running.
General industrial 14% A combination of Weir Minerals product Power 12% superiority and experience contributed to the Oil & Water 5% win, in particular the successful installations with other major laterite nickel operations in Australia, at the Cawse, Murrin Murrin and Geographic breakdown: Bulong sites.
All the pumps are due for Americas 41% installation by mid 2006.
Australia 18% Indo Pacific 16% Europe & FSU 13% Middle East & Africa 9% UK 3% MCH pump: These very heavy duty pumps have outperformed all competitors in mill circuits throughout the world.
Market review Weir Minerals businesses serve the mining, mineral processing, sand and aggregate, power and general industrial markets with slurry equipment solutions.
2005 saw expansion in all of the Minerals businesses major markets, with both the mineral processing and power segments continuing to grow at record rates.
On a commodity basis, coal, alumina, copper, iron ore, platinum and gold prices held at or near historically high levels over the year, prompting increased levels of both new plant construction and upgrading, particularly in the traditional mining markets of South America and Australia.
The booming oil sands mines in Canada also provided some large equipment orders.
Chinese demand for mineral commodities is affecting price and production volumes globally.
This mineral demand is likely to continue to grow at levels which should see prices maintained in the medium term.
Even when new plant construction declines, as it inevitably will, higher underlying mineral production levels will provide a platform for solid ongoing demand for Weir Minerals spare parts and service products.
Growing energy demand has fuelled coal fired power station construction in China and, in North America, retrofit of flue gas desulphurisation systems has helped boost demand for large scrubber recycle pumps to record levels.
Sand and aggregate markets in North America and Europe were solid in 2005 and efforts to grow share utilising our new Warman XU pump and a service alliance strategy started to yield encouraging results.
9 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Clear Liquid: World-class businesses providing end to end pumping solutions for major oil and gas, power generation, water and hydrocarbon processing projects.
200 Our brands: Weir Lewis 150 Floway Gabbioneta 100 Order input Roto-Jet Wemco 50 Stephen Bird Girdlestone 176.1m Divisional Managing Director Begemann 2004 2005 Up 14.5% Zeron 100 Operational review Key achievements 2005 was a year of significant activity where we pursued our strategy Gabbioneta acquired and successfully integrated.
to focus on higher technology, higher margin and spares-generative Weir Pumps restructuring delivers early benefits in final quarter.
niche activities and to exit low margin markets.
Significant orders received from the Chinese nuclear facilities at Ling Ao In line with this, we successfully acquired Italian pump manufacturer and Qinshan.
Gabbioneta, whose portfolio of products for the downstream oil and gas markets and geographic footprint make it a strong strategic fit for the Weir Lewis order intake up 23% with significant progress in Australia, Clear Liquid group of companies.
Meanwhile, following restructuring, Taiwan and the Former Soviet Union.
Weir Pumps in Scotland is now clearly focused on its most profitable Cross-divisional sales effort with Weir Minerals for orders delivered to activities with a significantly reduced headcount.
Both the acquisition the South American mining market.
and the restructuring demonstrate the ability of the Clear Liquid team to manage change successfully.
Weir Specialty Pumps launched new range of Self Primer and Chopper pumps.
We saw further growth in our existing higher margin, niche businesses of Weir Lewis and Weir Specialty Pumps which grew faster than the market in Awarded British Pump Manufacturers Association Innovation of the 2005.
Our foundry has refocused on highly complex castings with strong Year award for second consecutive year.
This vertical integration and control of a critical Weir Floway and Weir Specialty Pumps implemented Lean principles component of our products has been important in meeting our to back office management capturing synergies, reducing costs and customers needs.
Weir Specialty Pumps successfully developed and launched four complete new product lines in 2005 Self Priming Pump, Vertical Chopper Pump, Horizontal Chopper Pump and Submersible Chopper Pump lines for the wastewater and industrial markets.
A strong new product development process has reduced product development lead times by over 60%, generated improved products versus the competition and created patented features that lower the cost of ownership for customers.
The Self Primer Pump will also be sold and distributed through the Weir Minerals sales organisation in order to realise its global and multiple applications potential.
The Clear Liquid sales organisation has been highly successful in growth regions such as China and the Former Soviet Union.
With most of our markets buoyant, our investment in Lean manufacturing and project management principles has enabled us to meet increased demand from our customers.
We expect continuous improvement in all our facilities and regularly audit progress.
A considerable contribution to performance has been made by our sourcing team in China and our success in exploiting group-wide purchasing opportunities.
In 2005, Clear Liquid businesses have been sourcing parts for all of their main pump products through China, with close to 20% of our total 2005 annual casting requirements now globally sourced.
This is forecast to double in 2006 as the suppliers are certified to achieve Weirs rigorous quality and logistics standards.
2005 was a year of significant change for the Clear Liquid group of companies with the successful acquisition and integration of Gabbioneta and the restructuring of Weir Pumps in Scotland.
This, combined with our strategy of focusing on our higher margin niche markets, has laid a strong foundation for significant improvement in 2006.
Stephen Bird, Divisional Managing Director 10 Operational Review Case Study Weir Clear Liquid is continuously Weir Gabbioneta: integration into enhancing and developing our product Clear Liquid range to solve the technical and On 30 September 2005 the acquisition of Pompe Gabbioneta was completed.
This operational challenges facing our specialist petrochemical pump business located in Milan, Italy is ranked third in the customers, enabling them to Europe, Middle-East, Africa EMEA downstream oil and gas market.
The business is improve performance and an ideal strategic fit for the Weir Clear Liquid group of companies.
A carefully managed 100-day integration plan was executed by a cross-functional team that included sales and marketing, human Primary input breakdown: resources, Lean production, technical, finance and IT, to ensure the rapid alignment of the Oil 36% Gabbioneta systems to divisional processes Water & wastewater 19% and conversion to IFRS reporting standards.
Power 17% A full review of the API pump product portfolio General industrial 16% has resulted in 5-year strategic plan for Weir Minerals 10% Gabbioneta in EMEA and areas of purchasing synergy have already been identified.
The Other 2% speed and success of the integration process will enable the Group to benefit rapidly from the full potential of the acquisition.
Geographic breakdown: Americas 33% Indo Pacific 20% Middle East & Africa 20% UK 15% Europe & FSU 10% Australia 2% Weir Gabbioneta amine high pressure pumps for Middle East oil and gas development.
Market review Weir Clear Liquid's primary markets are oil and gas, power generation, specialist water and wastewater and a range of general industrial markets.
We continue to focus our resources on those markets offering the most attractive prospects and where we believe we can lead and bring added value to our customers.
Oil prices continued to be high in 2005, which meant that both the upstream and downstream oil markets were buoyant, growing globally at over 4% and at much higher levels in some markets where we have an established footprint.
This particularly benefited Weir Pumps and the recently acquired Weir Gabbioneta.
Strong growth has been experienced in the Chinese power generation market, with significant long-term investment forecast in the future.
An increased regional sales presence and an international reputation for technical expertise and excellent quality have resulted in significant orders for Weir Pumps in this market and we anticipate this continuing to be an important market for us in 2006.
We have chosen to take a selective approach to the water and wastewater markets, focusing on more technical, higher margin products and exiting those products that do not offer acceptable long term profitability.
We continue to operate successfully in the UK clean water market and in the United States, where we have leading positions in our selected municipal water and wastewater markets which are growing at around 4%.
Performance during 2005 in the general industrial market has been strong.
This sector continues to grow at 3-4% and the Clear Liquid businesses are well placed to grow ahead of this market.
Minerals and mining continues to be a growth market particularly for our Weir Floway vertical turbine pumps.
We have been able to work closely with Weir Minerals to considerably grow our market share, particularly in South America.
Our highly attractive niche businesses at Weir Lewis and Weir Specialty Pumps have grown ahead of market growth rates in 2005.
We expect this to continue in 2006.
11 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Valves & Controls: Businesses specialising in high integrity valves for critical service, process protection and plant safety applications in power generation and oil & gas sectors.
80 Our brands: Atwood & Morrill 60 Batley Valve Blakeborough Controls 40 Order input Hopkinsons MAC Valves 20 Phil Clifton Sarasin RSBD 59.3m Divisional Managing Director Sebim 2004 2005 Down 19.6% Tricentric Operational review Key achievements 2005 demonstrated the effectiveness of our strategy for Weir Valves Transformation of UK business through closure of old site: new & Controls, with significant order wins in China and the Middle East business model: investment in new factory: and rationalisation and successful restructuring of the UK business.
A more focused product of product range.
strategy, with corresponding reduction in order intake, has led to Approval to acquire wholly owned manufacturing facility in China improved margins across the businesses and all operations met or during 2006. exceeded their business targets in 2005.
Disposal of the non-core pulsation dampener business.
The year saw significant investment in the establishment of advanced application engineering capability alongside our sales operations in key New multi-year valve support contract signed for French nuclear markets.
This approach is being rolled out in the Middle East, China, India, power stations.
South Africa and Eastern Europe, all regions that present considerable Weir Valves & Controls France designated as global centre opportunity for growth.
The commencement of valve production in the of excellence for critical safety valve products.
United Arab Emirates supported our success in winning contracts in the Middle East oil and gas market.
In China, a level of local production also First nuclear valve contracts for Ukraine delivered to programme.
assisted in securing a substantial share of the valve market in the growing Middle East collaboration with Weir Services results in first valves power generation sector.
The development of a modern manufacturing produced in the United Arab Emirates.
facility in China is proceeding to plan and the factory will be fully integrated into the Weir Group in the first quarter of 2006.
Italian alliance agreement established for ball valve product range.
A major achievement in 2005 was the radical transformation of the UK Significant order wins for the Middle East oil and gas market.
A right-sized business with a significantly reduced headcount now operates from a modern, flexible facility designed to support Lean processes.
A substantial level of activities have been outsourced, enabling the business to concentrate on high value, high margin areas of engineering that are critical to our specialist and proprietary products.
Despite major transformation activities and order intake rationing during the transition period, the UK operation outperformed its business plan and was profitable in the last quarter of 2005.
I have been very pleased with the performance of all the valve businesses in 2005, particularly given the difficulties of 2004.
The project to transform the Valves & Controls businesses has proceeded to programme and all targets have been met.
I am very encouraged by market trends, not only the continued buoyancy of the oil and gas markets and growth in China, but also the potential resurgence in new build power stations, including nuclear plant, in the United States and Europe.
Phil Clifton, Divisional Managing Director 12 Operational Review Case Study Weir Valves & Controls products reflect Zaporozhye nuclear power our state-of-the-art product development plant, Ukraine and manufacturing focus.
Our global Weir Valves & Controls France has delivered the first safety valves to the sales operation and engineering capability Zaporozhye nuclear power station in Ukraine.
The contract, procured through enable us to offer the whole-project, the Tacis programme from the European Commission, is for the replacement of whole-process solutions our 48 steam generator safety valves covering six reactors, plus on-site services for the customers require.
supervision of installation, commissioning and knowledge transfer.
Zaporozhye is the largest supplier of electric Primary input breakdown: power in Ukraine and one of the three best plants in the world according to the Power 61% International Atomic Energy Authority.
It Oil & Gas 21% produces 37-38 billion Kwh, accounting General industrial 18% for 20% of the countrys annual electricity generation and 50% of all Ukrainian nuclear energy.
Geographic breakdown: Weir Valves & Controls is well positioned to UK, Europe & FSU 34% meet requirements in the Former Soviet Americas 28% Union, with regional experience, recognised ability and superior technology and Indo Pacific 27% equipment.
Since 1995, 200 SEBIM Middle East & Africa 11% valves have been installed on 64 reactors in these markets.
Weir Valves & Controls nuclear safety valves are at the forefront of worldwide programmes to upgrade the safety and reliability of ageing nuclear power stations.
Market review The key sectors in which Weir Valves & Controls operate are power generation, oil and gas.
In power generation, our traditional markets in Western Europe and North America remained quiet in 2005, with little new build power plant construction.
However, there are encouraging signs that the scale of future power shortfalls is being recognised and we expect to see plans for new plant to be developed during 2006.
We are also seeing evidence of a revival in the nuclear industry going forward and are expecting to see new nuclear plant to be required in the United States and Europe over the next few years.
Alongside this lack of new build projects we have seen a continuation of life extension activity for the existing and ageing power generation infrastructure and this has boosted demand for the servicing refurbishment and enhancement of existing valves and the replacement of old valves.
In parts of the world outside our traditional geographic markets, we are continuing to see healthy growth in the construction of new power plant.
Of particular note is the vigorous Chinese market, which is driven by an ambitious programme to increase generating capacity through new-build conventional and nuclear plants.
We have been successful in winning contracts to support this programme with specialist, high integrity valve products.
The new build power plant sector in India offers further opportunities for growth and there continues to be demand for safety system upgrades on installed nuclear reactors in Eastern Europe where our successful record on EU-funded projects in the Ukraine has led to additional work for 2006.
The strength of the oil and gas market was sustained throughout 2005 and we have again achieved a good share of the niche market for Weir Valves & Controls products.
The Middle East continues to be buoyant and with high oil prices increasing the cost of downtime, the ability to deliver local engineering support is an ever more important factor in winning new work.
In 2005, we increased our focus on the niche market for safety and critical service valves.
These require a significant amount of engineering knowledge and application expertise and are recognised by customers as high added value products.
At the same time, the spares and support after-market continues to be an essential component of our business and 2005 saw increased activity in field product support, rapid spares delivery and life extension activity around our extensive global installed base.
13 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Engineering Services: Weirs reputation for engineering excellence extends to the technical support of both our own installed base and other manufacturers equipment.
Engineering Services works across all Weir markets, supporting both our engineering products businesses and our defence, nuclear and gas operations.
Weir Services businesses provide equipment maintenance, engineered solutions, process support and asset management across major industrial sectors.
A global programme of state-of-the-art analysis, design and production technology for spare parts is delivered through local and on-site engineering service centres.
Operating profit m Operating profit 40 13.1m Down 38.1% 30 20 Revenue Order input 10 Steve Simone 215.3m 221.9m Divisional Managing Director 2004 2005 Up 4.3% Up 4.7% Operational review Key achievements In 2005, Weir Services was reorganised geographically, with the key Acquisition of 49% interest in a joint venture in Saudi Arabia furthers objective of getting closer to our customers in key markets and enhancing our geographic footprint in the Middle East.
the delivery of global technologies and solutions.
The reorganisation Weir Services Australia expansion with new service facility in included the appointment of a new managing director in Australia and New South Wales.
the separation of the Middle East and the UK into two distinct businesses.
This provides greater transparency of the most profitable areas of the Weir Canada enjoyed record year, buoyed by large field contract to business and has allowed us to invest in new opportunities, including refurbish the Luscar coal mine in Alberta.
a joint venture with the Olayan Group in Saudi Arabia.
Completion of 10M refurbishment of Culligran Hydro-Electric Breaking into the United States market has been an ongoing ambition Power station for Scottish and Southern Energy.
for services and the launch of our Global Parts activity during 2005 was Growing oil and gas order book includes contracts for Total, an important step in achieving this.
Working closely with Weir Materials Petrofac and Britannia.
and Foundries and establishing state-of-the-art service centres close to our customers, the Global Parts initiative has reduced the lead time for Awarded ten-year contract for the repair and servicing of pumps complex cast parts to as little as four weeks.
In 2005, we were awarded for surface and submarine ships for the Royal Navy.
upgrade and maintenance work in oil and gas, power generation Successful implementation of a full ERP solution and specialist water and wastewater, often against the original in the UK service network.
We have continued to exit non-core products and activities that are not aligned to our strategy.
We have strengthened our offerings in niche markets based on improving customer service, enhancing equipment performance and accelerating delivery.
The success of this strategy is evidenced by the many contracts awarded for the servicing of pumps, valves, turbines and compressors in 2005 and the foundation is now set for continuing growth in 2006 and beyond.
The initiatives implemented in 2005 provide exciting prospects for the future growth of the Services Division.
By extending our geographic reach and partnering with our customers, we are gaining market share and growing our capabilities.
Customers continue to reward us with profitable business based on our dedication to solving problems, meeting our commitments, and being the best in the industry.
Steve Simone, Divisional Managing Director 14 Photograph: Muskeg River Mine in the Canadian Oil Sands, courtesy of Shell Canada Limited Operational Review Case Study The specialist technical expertise of Weir Colonial Pipeline, USA service engineers and project managers Colonial Pipeline Company operates a pipeline enables customers to improve their that runs from Houston, Texas to Linden, New Jersey, pumping a daily average of 100MM operations by reducing downtime, gallons of gasoline, home heating oil, and aviation fuel.
The project to re-rate and enhancing the performance and upgrade the line was driven by operational requirements for efficiency, reliability extending the working life of and capacity.
During the extensive bid process, the Weir process-critical equipment.
Services team demonstrated an exceptional ability to respond rapidly to the changing needs of the customers.
Our experience in Primary input breakdown: global asset and project management was a key factor in this success, together with General industrial 35% our proven expertise in computer aided Oil 28% measurement and modelling, which allowed us to digitise and upgrade complex Power 14% mechanical components.
Minerals 9% Water & wastewater 8% Weir Services was awarded the contract ahead of the original equipment manufacturer.
Defence 6% The work includes turnkey removal, inspection and installation of pumps, as well as repair and modification of the pumps at Geographic breakdown: our own facilities.
Americas 51% UK, Europe & FSU 27% Australia 11% Middle East & Africa 10% Other 1% Robust quality and project management are as important as engineering excellence in order to optimise line speeds and reduce downtime.
Market review The oil and gas industry remains a key sector for Weir Services and we have seen strong demand from the sector through 2005.
The high oil price has encouraged operators to maximise production and made system availability a key driver.
This has benefited our operations in the North Sea, where we have secured several new UK contracts and expanded our activities in the Dutch and Danish markets.
In the Middle East, our service centres also experienced strong demand.
They are licensed to repair and re-certify the tubulars and pressure control equipment used in drilling new wells.
This type of work has grown with the increased demand for oil.
We have well-established relationships with the key oil and gas operators and their main contractors who operate across the globe.
These relationships provide the foundation to open up new markets in the Caspian region, the Former Soviet Union and West Africa, which are all sources of significant potential growth.
Power generation continues to be an important market and we have focused on expanding our engineering capabilities to grow our position in the sector.
Increased energy prices are driving increased investment into the reliability of critical plant items such as Boiler Feed Pumps and we are actively pursuing the significant power industry opportunities in several of the new EU accession states where there is an urgent need to upgrade generating capacity.
Power customers are also moving towards asset management contracts, where our experience of this approach in other industries is beginning to pay off.
Weir Services is increasingly seen as a solutions provider, not simply a repair and maintenance supplier, putting us in an ideal position to exploit the trend for more partnership-style contractual arrangements.
Although 2005 was a quiet year in the UK for hydro plant refurbishment, in 2006 we expect to see further new work in this core area for the Group.
We have also commenced Hydro work in Canada, combining our experience in the UK with our existing presence in the region.
In the water sector, Weir Services remains a leader in the provision of technical solutions to deliver efficiency gains.
The ongoing regulatory emphasis in developed markets for asset improvement and reduced cost of ownership is driving demand for pump and other process upgrades, which we will continue to deliver.
15 Photograph: Muskeg River Mine in the Canadian Oil Sands, courtesy of Shell Canada Limited The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Defence, Nuclear & Gas: Specialist engineering design businesses, responsible for the design and management of complex engineering projects.
Operating profit m Operating profit 10 6.8m Up 73.4% 7.5 5 Revenue Order input 2.5 Phil Clifton 68.4m 112.1m Divisional Managing Director 2004 2005 Up 24.6% Down 0.3% Operational review Key achievements Weir Strachan & Henshaw delivered an excellent performance in 2005, Through-life support contract signed for Collins class submarines achieving critical milestones on current defence projects and making sound for the Australian Navy.
progress on opportunities in Europe, Australia and Canada, all providing an Pre-selected for engineering work on a European naval submarine excellent platform for the future.
project supports positive outlook for future order growth.
The recent growth in nuclear power activity, particularly in nuclear Successful delivery of major components for the Royal Navy Astute decommissioning, waste processing and storage activity, helped to submarine programme.
The vast majority of nuclear power stations around the world have Weir product installed and a Group-wide review Successfully supplied specialist in-service support of weapons handling of our nuclear power capability supports our intention to deliver an and discharge system on Victoria class submarines in Canada.
integrated Weir offering for this high growth market.
Awarded contract for Hinkley A Intermediate Level Waste In 2005, we made good progress in our strategy to reduce the historical Storage facility.
dependence on the UK for defence business by opening up new markets.
Delivered testing facilities for Airbus A380 project for fatigue testing In addition to new contracts in Australia and Canada, we quoted on several of undercarriage and wing joints.
future projects including a number of joint tenders through our associate company, Devonport Management Limited.
The early award of engineering Weir LGE delivered year of record input at 80.2m.
work on a European naval submarine project confirms an optimistic outlook First gas storage project completed in China.
for strong order growth in 2006.
Contracts awarded for on-shore gas storage projects in Iran.
The liquid gas storage business, Weir LGE, achieved a significant increase in revenue and profit when compared to 2004.
New orders from Korean shipbuilders and the award of onshore storage work in the Middle East delivered full year input of 80.2m compared with 62.7m in 2004.
Future market demand and limited shipbuilding capacity continue to underpin Weir LGEs revenue and profit progress in 2006.
Weir is a trusted engineering partner The defence and nuclear businesses to major government and commercial performed well in 2005.
Our strategy to reduce clients in the defence, nuclear and our reliance on UK Ministry of Defence projects gas industries, developing, testing and has been rewarded with contract wins from delivering innovative programmes to other countries.
We remain encouraged by the the highest standards.
level of activity in the nuclear power market, through life extension, waste processing Primary input breakdown: Geographic breakdown: storage and decommissioning activity.
We Marine 69% Indo Pacific 46% are well positioned to take advantage of the Oil 18% UK 24% Power 12% Middle East & Africa 18% growing opportunities in new build nuclear General Industrial 1% Europe & FSU 8% power stations.
Australia 3% Americas 1% Phil Clifton, Divisional Managing Director 16 Operational Review Defence Despite delays in major UK defence programmes, the defence markets in Europe, the United States, Australia and Canada offer significant scope for growth and remain robust, with a number of governments planning significant expansion Case Study in their surface and submarine fleets.
Innovation in submarine communications In 2005, successful harbour trials were conducted on a sophisticated submarine communications system developed by Weir Strachan & Henshaw in partnership with Ultra Electronics and QinetiQ.
The project, known as RTOF Recoverable Towed Optical Fibre Buoy Communications System, is jointly funded by the UK Ministry of Defence and the United States Navy.
A pathfinder in submarine communications with worldwide potential, the system will provide satellite communications to a submarine commanding officer whilst the vessel is operating underwater at speed and depth.
The RTOF system incorporates the fully integrated Weir Strachan & Henshaw buoy deployment and recovery handling mechanism and draws together several major strands of advanced science and technology into a world first.
The demonstrator is to be fitted into a nuclear submarine for a series Nuclear of trials commencing in 2006.
The nuclear power market has shown significant signs of a renaissance with an increase in both new build activity and life extension programmes for existing reactors.
There is also growing demand for decommissioning solutions and for equipment to handle nuclear waste during processing and storage.
The successful underwater trials of RTOF reflect our ability to broaden our defence portfolio through innovation, partnership and high quality engineering capabilities.
Gas High energy costs have fuelled the market for the transportation and storage of liquid natural gas, particularly in the Middle East and Far East.
Future market demand underpins opportunities for Weir expertise.
