OPERATING REVIEW QUALITY Westburys Agecroft site in Salford is an excellent example of our focus upon brownfield regeneration and sustainable development.
The site was previously a concrete block works using pulverised fuel ash from the Agecroft Power Station effective solution, enabling us to create high density a derelict eyesore.
The land has now been decontaminated developments that are aesthetically pleasing and have real and reclaimed to provide an extremely attractive housing customer appeal.
We mix classically designed terraced and development, along with wetland habitat and landscaping, detached properties, and use two and a half and three storey incorporating over 1,000 new trees.
A sustainable urban houses to provide extra accommodation while adding visual drainage system, considered best practice by The Environment interest to the street scene.
We also tailor the basic Renaissance Agency, has also been adopted.
An innovative development designs to reflect existing regional architecture and traditions, layout design 18 different house types encircling a village for example through the use of local stone or brick cladding, green has transformed Agecroft into a sought after roof tiles, windows and doors and other external features.
locality, one of Westburys most successful sites.
Last year we achieved an average build density of around 18,000 square feet per acre, which will rise to approximately In February 2005 we finished introducing our new Group 19,000 square feet per acre on our new schemes.
This has refocused our approach to quality and service standards.
Operational effectiveness and Saving energy efficiency throughout our business has been dramatically Reducing energy consumption in the home is good news for improved, especially in Sales proactively managing customer the planet, and for our customers pockets.
We begin by expectations, and in Build adopting new methods of designing site layouts to take advantage of natural light and communication, physical examples, practical benchmarks shade, so reducing heating and lighting requirements.
We ensure all our homes achieve then ensure high quality construction, whether by traditional the required standards by using a wide range of or modern methods.
The Space4 system in particular delivers performance indicators, checklists, reports and audits.
Homes produced by this method exceed the requirements of the Governments Building Regulations Part L, offering exceptional thermal performance that scores the maximum of 10 points against the EcoHomes building envelope measure.
We are also well positioned to meet the proposed Part E Regulations on Sound Transmission.
The SAP Standard Assessment Procedure energy efficiency ratings of all our dwellings are displayed on each property and on our price lists, ensuring that our customers are fully informed about likely running costs.
The average Space4 home has a SAP rating of 94 and the average conventionally built Westbury home has a rating of 84, on a scale which has a theoretical maximum of 120.
Ensuring excellence A new quality management regime was introduced across the Group during 2004 following a successful pilot scheme in South Wales.
This is beginning to deliver real improvement in the quality of our product which we expect to continue in the new financial year.
We will also be focusing on our after-sales service to improve the level of service to our customers, in line with our commitment to provide continuous improvement in all our products and services.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 17 OPERATING REVIEW FOCUSING ON BEST PRACTICE AND HIGH STANDARDS ACROSS THE GROUP Setting standards Traffic management plans identify the shortest possible Ensuring high and consistent standards of efficiency across routes to sites, reducing fuel consumption as well as minimising the Group is a key management priority.
The new divisional disruption to the local community.
The increasing use of Space4 structure for our Homes business created divisional chairmen construction methods significantly reduces the number specifically charged with driving further improvements in of trucks needed to make deliveries to each building site, efficiency, delivering consistency and promoting best practice speeds construction and reduces the demand for traditional, across our operations.
The continued improvement in Westbury skilled labour.
Homes operating margin testifies to the effectiveness of our approach, and we are committed to protecting and enhancing Reducing waste profitability as we drive increasing volumes in the current Waste is the enemy of efficiency, whether on the building year and beyond.
site or in the office or home.
Westbury is accordingly committed to maximising the recycling of materials Optimising land use throughout the Group, and in recent years we have We are determined to make the best possible use of the achieved massive reductions in the amount of waste going limited supply of building land.
Some 60% of last years sales to landfill from our building sites.
In brownfield locations were made from previously used, brownfield sites, and these where demolition is undertaken, we typically use heavy comprise a similar proportion of our current land bank.
The crushing plant to convert old concrete and bricks into densities of around 18,000 square feet per acre we are approved aggregate for use in roads.
We also ensure that achieving on current schemes compare with a previous norm any recoverable metals are sent offsite for recycling.
for modern estates of 13,000 square feet per acre and 20 Dangerous materials such as petrol or diesel fuel spillages units per hectare.
For urban apartment developments, we are separated for safe disposal, enabling a high proportion can achieve much higher densities, rising to 28,000 square of the affected earth to be cleaned and reused on site.
feet per acre on a current scheme in Ipswich and 32,000 Space4 technology significantly reduces the amount of square feet per acre on one in Didsbury.
waste generated by building compared with traditional construction methods, typically reducing lorry loads by Building efficiently 30%.
Rising landfill taxes create an additional economic We programme all our developments to make the most incentive to pursue our waste reduction plans still further efficient use of raw materials and labour, as well as land.
EFFICIENCY Efficiencies are made in many areas across the Group.
Land is our most valuable asset, not just for Westbury but across the UK, and there is a high demand for new homes.
The average square footage achieved by the Group on new schemes is around 19,000 square feet per acre and on existing schemes around 18,000 square feet.
However, we are improving on this all the time while maintaining attractively designed developments.
New examples include our 80 apartment development at Didsbury, Manchester achieving 32,000 square feet per acre and 93 apartment development in Ipswich at 28,000 square feet per acre.
18 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 OPERATING REVIEW Improving administration regional boards, including Space4, and is chaired by Colin Cole.
We have also maintained our focus on business efficiency in It meets every two months to develop policies and strategy, office functions.
Videoconferencing facilities have been installed aided by expert external advice.
We also have a well-established in all our regional offices, head office and at Space 4 and network of Health & Safety Managers in each of our nine Incresco, and are now used extensively for internal and external operating regions.
Last year we began work on an important meetings.
As well as the Health & Safety benefits of reduced project to identify and implement best practice in scaffolding, journeys, as this produces direct savings in travel and working at height and falling objects, all categories which are accommodation costs, and makes better use of employees consistently identified as the top three sources of reportable time thus enhancing productivity.
Improving standards in these areas therefore offers accrued from increasing the availability of secure remote the potential to achieve a significant reduction in on-site access to our systems for employees.
Our company car policy incidents and to produce a safer working environment.
ensures that high mileage drivers use vehicles which are fuel efficient and have low CO2 emissions.
We have reduced Communicating successfully paper usage across the Group by increasing the number of To ensure that all our employees understand the importance reports and plans available electronically on our intranet.
of Health & Safety issues, we provide each of them with We have continued to focus on maximising the recycling of guidelines on their own particular responsibilities, and record paper and other office consumables such as printer key tasks in their job description.
We ensure effective cartridges, and ensure that redundant IT equipment is communication of our policies, initiatives and progress through disposed of only to third parties who are certified under the our internal staff magazine, Stage 9, and our monthly Core EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive.
Brief as well as through the Westbury intranet.
This includes a large Health & Safety section, making an extensive library of Purchasing effectively reference material and policy documents available throughout We believe in building effective and mutually beneficial the Group.
All new safety alerts are distributed immediately partnerships with selected suppliers which provide them with by email and then indexed on the intranet for future security and a fair return while allowing us to leverage the reference within a matter of hours.
The site is also linked to benefits of our scale to secure excellent terms.
This is the Government HSE Health & Safety Executive website.
facilitated by our policy of purchasing on a Group-wide basis wherever possible.
The key criteria we evaluate in selecting Auditing and measuring performance our partners obviously include their ability to offer consistently To ensure the effectiveness of our policies, the National good value for money, but we also insist that they adhere to House-Building Council NHBC acts as our Group Health & sound working practices and high environmental standards.
Safety consultant, and provides comprehensive bi-monthly reports based on the regular site visits carried out by their Ensuring health and safety Safety advisers.
These demonstrate that significant Health and safety are of paramount importance in ensuring performance improvements have been achieved over the the smooth and efficient operation of our building sites, as last year, and the Group consistently performs better than well as fulfilling our obligations to employees, contractors, the NHBCs all-builder average.
During the year the NHBC suppliers, customers and the general public both in and carried out detailed audits of management systems and out of working hours.
The Groups Health & Safety policies policy adherence in all of our operating regions, and the comply with all current legislation in this area.
The current Group has now obtained full accreditation.
The process of Westbury Health & Safety Executive Committee, established re-accreditation will take place annually to ensure that all in 2001, comprises senior directors from head office and our our sites continue to comply with current regulations.
Westburys Cherry Tree Nurseries development in Sutton Harbour, Plymouth is a landmark Westbury At St. Michaels Meadow in Colwinston, Vale of Lower Standon, Bedfordshire provides a range of development transforming disused warehouses Glamorgan, ten individually designed village style 3,4 and 5 bedroom Renaissance style houses set and boatyards into 224 waterfront apartments.
homes are sympathetically built, using local styles around an attractive, large open public space.
and materials, in this beautiful conservation area.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 19 OPERATING REVIEW ALWAYS THINKING OF NEW WAYS TO IMPROVE OUR SERVICES AND STANDARDS Solutions for enhancing homes Taking an industry lead The Westbury Direct Solutions range of home options has Space4 is one of the UKs largest producer of fast-track, continued to develop, generating increased revenue and precision engineered, off-site manufactured construction making a record 4.0 million contribution to operating profit systems.
Last year we further consolidated our industry during the year.
The Solutions range of products and leadership by increasing output from our Castle Bromwich services gives our customers a large selection of options to factory to around 2,200 house shells, a volume increase customise and improve their homes, whether they are seeking of nearly 70% that itself built on a doubling of production to upgrade their kitchens or bathrooms, add a conservatory in the previous year.
In total we supplied 1800 units to or landscape their garden.
It also provides a one stop shop Westbury Homes and 400 to external buyers and met our for a wide range of competitively priced white goods such as key financial objective for the year of achieving break-even dishwashers, ovens and washing machines.
Following the for the first time.
successful pilot of our first Solutions department store in Stratford in 2003, which presented the full range of products Using world class technology and choices available to the Westbury homebuyer in realistic Space4 uses computer-aided design and manufacturing room settings, we developed similar Solutions houses in five CAD CAM techniques from the automotive industry to regions during the year.
The success of this concept is produce insulated structural wall panels, internal walls and reflected in continued expansion of the business, which we floor cassettes for houses and apartments.
A controlled regard as an important growth vehicle with significant scope factory environment ensures consistently high levels of for expansion and development in the future.
Using a unique patented technology, we inject high-performance fire-resistant foam insulation Maintaining customer service into kiln-dried timber panels to create easily assembled Our Incresco financial services business was developed to external wall units that include factory-fitted doors and assist our customers in finding appropriate home-related windows.
These are then combined with internal walls and financial products such as mortgages and insurance, and also floor cassettes to create a complete house set that is to facilitate the purchase of Westbury homes.
Last year its delivered to site for assembly.
In total the CAD CAM Independent Financial Advisers IFAs arranged a total of database already contains over 400 home designs, and our 1,300 mortgages with a combined value of 163 million, staff can work with customers to convert any new design for using over 65 different lenders.
It also arranged over 530 the manufacturing process.
million of life insurance cover.
While the business has proved that there is a real demand for its services, it has not been a financial success for the Group.
INNOVATION 20 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 OPERATING REVIEW Speeding construction Delivering satisfaction Space4 house shells can be assembled on site by a team of The key benchmark for any product is its ability to deliver four people to create a secure, weatherproofed roofed customer satisfaction.
Space4 has always scored highly in structure within one working day.
This compares with a six this area.
Customers particularly welcome the high standard week process for traditional masonry construction.
Total of insulation and the resulting thermal and acoustic construction time is reduced by up to 50% and the number performance.
They also appreciate the accuracy of the of man hours spent working at height is also significantly internal shell and the high standard of finish this facilitates, reduced, cutting the risk of accidents.
Fitting the roof, prenotably the reduction in issues such as surface plaster assembled at ground level and lifted into position can take cracking.
just 60 minutes, and once this is done external cladding and internal fitting-out can be progressed simultaneously.
The Presenting a growth opportunity precision of the system ensures that internal components On his visit to the Space4 factory in 2003, the Deputy Prime such as doors, stairs and kitchen units fit right first time, Minister, John Prescott, strongly welcomed the system for its further enhancing productivity.
Lower water usage ability to produce houses quickly without sacrificing quality significantly reduces the length of the traditional drying-out or good design.
We believe that Space4 is best suited to the period for plasterwork, and the problems associated with production of high volumes of family homes, and should surface cracking.
therefore offer significant advantages to the social and affordable housing sector, which the Government is Benefiting the environment committed to expanding.
We already work closely with The Space4 delivers a wide range of environmental benefits.
Housing Corporation, which funds and regulates housing As well as using less water than conventional building associations in England, and have developed a range of methods, it also results in lower levels of CO2 emissions in accredited standard house plans for social housing the construction process, fewer truck journeys to sites and developments.
In the current year we intend to focus a much reduced level of waste.
The finished product delivers primarily on developing Space4s external sales, with a target a high level of thermal efficiency that reduces domestic of selling 1,000 units to third parties, principally providers of energy consumption.
Wherever possible we employ recycled social housing.
We also look for a further significant increase raw materials and use only Forest Stewardship Council in overall output to 2,750 units as we progress towards the timber in the production of our panel frames.
Last year factorys ultimate capacity of some 6,000 units per annum.
Space4 achieved ISO 14001 environmental accreditation for 1797 373 the first time after a comprehensive audit that required no major or minor corrective actions.
Gas and electricity usage 1331 per panel were reduced by 2% and 3% respectively, and waste disposal costs per panel cut by 3.5%.
Further 67 demanding targets have been set to improve all these measures in the current year.
2003 04 2004 05 2003 04 2004 05 SPACE4 EXTERNAL SPACE4 INTERNAL UNITS SOLD UNITS SOLD More Westbury Solutions centres have been rolled out across Among other achievements, Space 4 has achieved its ISO 14001 the group offering customers a greater choice in the home environmental accreditation this year, passing with flying colours fixtures and fittings.
From flooring, curtains, worktops, on the first attempt after a rigorous two-day assessment bathrooms and finishes to white goods and wardrobes.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 21 OPERATING REVIEW TO ACHIEVE OUR GOALS WE WORK CLOSELY WITH OUR OWN PEOPLE AND THE WIDER COMMUNITY Building a winning team have remained with the company for many years.
Staff We value our reputation as a good employer, and aim to sickness levels, averaging 6.36 days last year, are well below attract high quality people to work in housebuilding and the national average of 7.2 days, and our policy is to deal then to recruit and retain the very best.
Achieving staff with all cases fairly, reasonably and sympathetically, satisfaction is clearly critical to this, and we are proud to supporting employees and helping them to return to work have been both the first major housebuilder to achieve as soon as possible.
Last year we introduced an Employee Investors In People accreditation in 1995, and the first to Assistance Programme which provides all employees and feature in the Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to Work For their families with a confidential counselling service 24 hours in the UK guide in 2002.
Last year we successfully completed a day, 365 days a year.
This scheme is helping both the our Investors In People re-accreditation and were among the Company and its people to deal more effectively with any first companies to be successfully assessed under their new stress-related issues that may arise, whether they are related Leadership and Management Model.
Our accreditation here to work or to personal circumstances.
afforded recognition of our progressive training and development procedures.
Both this process and the Sunday Training future leaders Times research have provided us with valuable feedback on We have a strong reputation for training our people and staff views, with 83.6% of employees who responded to the providing real opportunities for career development.
This last Sunday Times survey stating that they felt proud to work helps us to secure a high level of interest in our graduate for Westbury.
We were pleased to feature in the UK Top 100 development programme for both construction and business again in 2004. graduates, which has been running successfully since 1997.
We have to date put around 70 graduates through the Facilitating communication programme, including 10 in 2004.
Our annual training We seek to encourage participation in our decision-making budget exceeds 1 million and involves the investment of processes, and to adhere to an open management style that more than 4,000 man days.
All employees benefit from an promotes the free flow of information throughout the annual personal development review and a performance organisation.
Last year we undertook a survey on internal business planning review, and training opportunities are communications, which demonstrated a high level of open to everyone.
The programmes we offer are fully appreciation of the range of communication vehicles we inclusive and cover all areas of the business, including provide.
However, while most staff felt well informed, the Management Development Programmes designed to help survey also identified a desire for more opportunities for our people identify and develop the skills needed to become face-to-face communication and involvement in issues.
This year we launched a new We will be seeking to address this in the current year, when Business Leadership Programme for those with the potential we will also be holding our own staff satisfaction survey.
to fill senior management posts, effectively providing an internal MBA course and leading to a Diploma or a Masters in Caring for our people Leadership through Middlesex University.
We seek to fill the We are committed to retaining good people and to majority of management positions through internal promotion, promoting the health and wellbeing of our employees.
and have formal succession plans covering all key areas of Staff turnover in housebuilding tends to be relatively high the organisation.
because of the geographically diverse nature of the industry, with many people working on site, and the shortages of Working with the community skilled employees.
Although there are marked regional Westbury increasingly encourages community involvement variations, our average staff turnover of some 18% is in line at an early stage of site development, to ensure that our with the best in the industry.
Our average length of service plans are in tune with the wishes of local people.
Last year is 5.3 years, and we are proud of the number of people who we participated in 18 public consultations, and have received 22 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 OPERATING REVIEW much positive feedback for the community planning days we have helped to organise for major urban regeneration projects.
These include Plymstock Quarry in Plymouth and Pickett Twenty in Andover where we are promoting a PEOPLE greenfield urban expansion for 1,200 homes in this key growth area.
As well as Westbury representatives, these consultations involve council officers, environmental agencies and utilities providers in dialogue with local residents, helping us to develop plans that take account of their wishes on such issues as transport, educational provision and open space.
Once development has started on a site, we seek to minimise disruption to the community and to keep them informed of progress.
Working with Government and industry Our main board directors and other senior managers participate in a wide range of industry and governmental bodies that help to form public policy on UK housing.
Over the last year this has included extensive involvement in discussions to implement the recommendations of the Westbury has again been voted by our employees into the top 100 in Barker Report.
We are members of the consultation group The Sunday Times Top 100 Companies to Work For guide.
Our overall set up by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, and are ranking was 74th with 79% of staff saying their jobs are stimulating and never boring!
also closely involved with the Housing Forum, Major Housebuilders Group, The Housing Corporation and English Partnerships, along with many other consultative bodies.
In addition to our senior management involvement, our personnel take part in panel and committee memberships at all levels.
Building affordable housing Westbury has more than 40 years experience in the UK housing market, and is committed to helping the Government meet its aim of improving the supply of social and affordable housing.
These objectives include increasing the supply of rented accommodation, shared ownership housing and other low cost homes, including those required South Wests successful apprenticeship scheme helps to address the lack of building trades expertise one of the biggest problems facing our industry.
Last year we completed 180 units to meet Some apprentices become site managers while others join our contractors.
section 106 social housing obligations, and have ongoing major contracts that will provide additional homes at former Ministry of Defence sites in Ashford and Quedgeley, Gloucester, and on a redeveloped Gloucester trading estate.
Our Westbury Partnerships division is working closely with housing associations, local authorities, tenant groups and Government bodies such as English Partnerships to achieve further increases in social housing provision.
The Space4 system gives us particular advantages in seeking to develop strategic alliances with Registered Social Landlords, including the ready availability of accredited designs, increased speed of construction, higher build quality and reduced waste.
In addition to working on dedicated schemes, our innovative approach to design enables us to create mixed tenure This year we launched a new Business Leadership Programme for those with accommodation on sites ranging from Poundbury in Dorset the potential to fill senior management posts effectively providing an internal MBA course and leading to a Diploma or a Masters in Leadership to Shenley Park in Milton Keynes, where we are providing for through Middlesex University.
all tenure types involving housing for rent, shared ownership, key worker and discounted market units for sale in addition to our conventional homes for sale.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 23 OPERATING REVIEW PUTTING SOMETHING BACK INTO THE COMMUNITIES WE OPERATE IN Charity partnerships Other giving Westbury seeks to focus its Group-wide charitable support In addition to our principal charity partnership, our regional on a single national organisation with which we establish a businesses throughout the UK are allocated funds to support formal partnership, usually for a period of three years.
Last a wide range of local charities, selected by charity year we completed a successful three-year partnership with committees comprising a cross-section of employees.
We The British Heart Foundation, for which we had raised a total also have the capacity to respond quickly and generously of 250,000 through Group donations and staff fund-raising to crises, donating a total of more than 30,000 to the Asian events.
Towards the end of the year we committed to a new Tsunami Appeal through a Group donation and staff fundthree-year partnership with Emmaus, an organisation which raising initiatives.
provides accommodation, employment and a feeling of worth for the homeless.
Participants live in an Emmaus Environmental Policy Community and commit to working 40 hours per week Also given to all staff and suppliers, the Environmental Policy within the Communitys own business.
This generates money is published on our website at www.
co. uk to make the Community self-supporting, and it donates any surplus to those in greater need or to help set up other Equal Opportunities Policy Communities elsewhere.
An evaluation of the local Emmaus Westbury provides a working environment that actively Community by the Department of Land Economy at opposes any form of discrimination being practised against Cambridge University recently concluded that this group its job applicants and employees on the grounds of their alone was providing savings and benefits to society of more sex, race, marital status, creed, disability or sexual persuasion.
than 600,000 per annum mostly as a direct saving to the A formal policy is held on the Westbury intranet to give taxpayer.
The charity is thus playing a valuable role in guidance on equal opportunities.
helping people to gain increased self-respect by supporting themselves and helping others who are disadvantaged.
We Westbury is committed to upholding its equal opportunities look forward to supporting Emmaus through an annual policy and to acting in accordance with both the letter and Group donation and through staff fund-raising activities and the spirit of this policy.
COMMUNITY In addition to Westbury Groups support of Emmaus, our employees continue to actively support a wide range of local community and charitable initiatives, committing both time and fundraising efforts.
24 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 OPERATING REVIEW Corporate Social Responsibility Policy career development and recognise and reward both As a corporate member of society, Westbury enjoys certain individual contribution and teamwork.
rights to conduct its business: whilst fully recognising that this also entails meeting certain responsibilities to the We are conscious of the impact of our business activities wider public.
upon the environment and will continue to seek ways to minimise or offset these effects.
We will continue to act We believe that it is our duty to create a profitable, stable responsibly regarding health and safety, with stringent company providing excellent returns to our shareholders.
procedures in place to safeguard customers, suppliers, However this must also be compatible with the interests contractors, employees and the general public.
of a range of other stakeholders, including our customers, employees, suppliers and contractors, business partners, Wherever our developments are located, we work government and the communities where we build.
with homebuyers and the local community to establish and sustain positive relationships based on mutual In every business transaction Westbury is totally committed understanding.
We aim to minimise disruption during to a code of ethics designed to promote honesty, integrity, the build process and keep interested parties fully fairness and mutual respect in all our operations.
Westbury is dedicated to providing customers with quality We honour our contractual obligations to suppliers, products and services offering flexibility and choice.
We will business partners and contractors, endeavouring to continue to undertake customer surveys in order to ensure build long-term relationships in order to achieve high our new homes meet expectations in terms of design, range service standards and deliver increasing benefits for of optional extras and customer service.
We readily acknowledge our staff as our most valued When it comes to the law there is no deviation.
For every Westbury employee, we provide a co-operate fully with government agencies and seek to safe working environment based on trust, equal comply with all laws, bylaws and regulations, and with opportunity and non-discrimination.
We encourage local, national and European Union legislation.
24.3 72.7 12.5 12.4 64.5 17.7 17.7 9.37 Westbury Group 7.25 Average NHBC All Builder Average 2004 2004 2003 2004 2005 2003 2003 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION % STAFF TURNOVER % HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE The number of customers likely to recommend Turnover among our employees has dropped The number of reportable incidents has Westbury has increased significantly since our since 2002 03 and remained consistently lower dropped significantly and is well below new Quality Policy was implemented.
We have also been the NHBC All Builder Average benchmark.
reaccredited with Investors in People.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 25 FINANCIAL REVIEW This has been another successful year for the Group with earnings growth of 13% to 72.6p per share.
These results deliver a twelfth consecutive year of growth in pre-exceptional earnings and profit before taxation.
The dividend has also grown in each of these twelve years and by more than 10% per annum for the last nine years.
Accounting policies The Group has adopted the same Accounting policies as last year in drawing up the financial statements with the exception of the adoption of UITF38 Accounting for ESOP trusts for which prior year figures have been revised.
In accordance with our normal practice the financial statements are made up to the nearest Friday to 28 February, which this year was 4 March 2005.
Going concern The directors, after making enquiries, consider that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future and have, therefore, continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
As with all business forecasts, the directors cannot guarantee that the going concern basis will remain appropriate, given the inherent uncertainties about future events.
Capital structure and treasury policy During the year, the company issued 470,434 ordinary shares for a cash consideration of 1,193,491 as a result of the exercise of executive share options.
This represents 0.4% of called-up share capital.
The Groups overall policy is to finance its operations through a combination of shareholder funds, long term loans, medium term bank loans and short term bank overdrafts.
The Group extended and increased its medium term bank facilities, at a reduced margin, on 1 October 2004.
As a result the Group has over 600 million of facilities available comprising the following: Medium Term Bank Loans 350 million revolving credit facilities to 2009.
26 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW Long Term Debt Westbury Direct is an integral part of the Homes business 50 million eleven year unsecured loan note due in 2010. and has continued to increase its contribution to Group US Private Placement raised in April 2003 operating profit with 4 million 2004: 3.6 million for the $75 million unsecured loan notes due in 2010. year from the sale of a range of value added products and $160 million unsecured loan notes due in 2013. services to our customers.
These US dollar loans have been converted to sterling through cross currency swaps which leaves the Group Group profit before taxation has increased by 13% for the with no exposure to the US dollar.
Short Term Debt The table shown below is included as the directors believe 30 million overdraft facilities renewable annually.
that it will assist shareholders to understand the underlying 15 million committed bank lines.
trading performance of the Group.
Homes Space4 Incresco Group m m m m The Group has in place hedging instruments that cover Turnover 885.5 4.8 2.7 893.0 300 million of the Groups debt through caps, fixed rate loans or fixed rate swaps ensuring that the Group has Operating profit 151.0 1.5 149.5 protection against adverse interest rate movements Goodwill amortisation 7.2 7.2 through to 2007 and 2010.
Statutory operating profit 143.8 1.5 142.3 Interest 22.3 The Groups policy, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, is to be in a position to take advantage of floating Profit before tax 120.0 rates on part of its debt but also to be protected against Operating margin 17.1% 16.7% significant increases in interest rates through the use of before goodwill amortisation fixed rate loans or straightforward hedging instruments.
As discussed above, the Group has a mixture of fixed and floating rate debt at year end as shown in note 18 on page Taxation The Group would anticipate, in normal circumstances, 60.
Net interest payable for the year was covered 6.7 times incurring a standard tax charge except that the amortisation 2004: 6.1 times by operating profit, before exceptional of goodwill arising from the Maunders acquisition in 1998 items and goodwill amortisation.
and the Prowting acquisition in 2002 is not tax deductible.
The effective tax charge on current year profits is 31.8%.
The Group has no foreign exchange exposure.
Earnings Earnings per share increased to 72.6 pence from Profit and loss account Turnover for the year increased by 64.2 pence in 2003 04, an increase of 13%.
The number of private house sales for achieved a compound growth in annual earnings, before the Group was 4,361 2004: 4,400 at an average sales price exceptional costs, of more than 20% over the last ten years.
The turnover for the year includes 17.5 million 2004: 31.4 million from land sales Dividends The final dividend has been increased to 11.45 and 21 million from the Group share of the sale of our pence per share, giving a total dividend of 16.8 pence per Leftbank Development in Manchester to Wescott Homes share: an increase of 20% when compared with the previous Limited, our joint venture with Bank of Scotland.
The dividend is covered 4.3 times by earnings.
In each of the last nine years, our dividend has increased by a The operating margin for the Homes Business, before minimum of 10% per annum.
During that period the dividend goodwill amortisation and exceptional costs, increased to has increased by 152% compared with inflation of 26% 17.1% 2004: 16.0% for the year.
providing significant real growth in income to shareholders.
As stated in the Chairmans Statement it is the Groups The Space4 business progressed in line with our expectations intention to maintain double-digit dividend growth whilst and produced a break-even position for the year retaining sufficient funds to support our growth targets.
This business is now well placed to move forward.
The Board is re-assessing its position with regard to financial services as a result of the loss of 1.5 million in Incresco.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 27 FINANCIAL REVIEW Cash flow, liquidity and gearing The Groups policy remains are not in dispute.
Creditor days relating to trade creditors the reduction of gearing whilst continuing to provide outstanding at the year end excluding land vendor sufficient investment to allow the achievement of its growth creditors were 27 days 2004: 27 days.
However, the Board is comfortable with gearing at or around 50% depending upon trading conditions and Net assets Net assets increased by 63.3 million to opportunities for growth.
489.2 million during the year resulting in net assets per share of 427 pence compared with 373 pence at Net debt at year end was 227 million compared with the beginning of the year.
This level of net borrowings provided a gearing ratio of 46% at February 2005 compared with 58% Return on average capital employed A key focus for the in February 2004.
We are well ahead of the gearing reduction Group is its return on average capital employed.
For this programme set in 2002 at the time of the Prowting acquisition.
calculation the Group uses operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation as a percentage Balance Sheet of the sum of average monthly shareholders funds and Fixed assets The decrease in tangible fixed assets during average monthly borrowings for the year.
The return on the year represented the sale of certain freehold properties average capital employed for the year increased to 20.6% acquired through the Prowting acquisition in 2002.
decrease in intangible fixed assets represents the amortisation of goodwill in accordance with our accounting policies.
Joint Venture with Bank of Scotland On 12 March 2004 Westbury plc announced a joint venture with Bank of Land and work in progress During the year, the Group Scotland Corporate Banking which was the first of its kind secured 5,000 plots 2004: 5,200 plots.
At the financial year by a major UK housebuilder and which provides access to end, the average cost of a plot in the balance sheet was 150 million of new capital.
The new 50:50 joint venture company, Wescott Holdings At the year end, the Group owned or controlled 15,700 plots Limited, is operating through its two wholly owned subsidiaries.
with planning consent including 3,400 plots secured but Wescott Homes Limited develops aspirational houses and conditional upon planning consent.
In addition we had terms apartments throughout the UK and Wescott Land Limited is agreed on a further 1,700 plots.
The strategic land bank a land trading company.
Wescott is funded by a combination stands at 22,000 plots, a similar level to last year.
The Group of equity provided by Westbury and Bank of Scotland and has a strong land bank to underwrite its growth ambitions.
a syndicated loan facility from major UK banks.
The syndicated loan is through a non-recourse facility to the Debtors At the end of the year debtors amounted to shareholders of Wescott and is secured on the assets of the 56.9 million, an increase of 25.5 million compared Wescott Companies.
to 2004 mainly as a result of loans made to joint ventures.
To provide Wescott Homes Limited with a sound foundation, Current liabilities Creditors increased by 99.4 million to Westbury sold one of its major urban schemes into the joint 324.8 million during the year mainly as a result of the venture.
The transfer at asset value of Leftbank, Westburys increase in land vendor creditors from 70.4 million in 2004 prestigious high rise scheme comprising 391 apartments to 160.3 million in 2005.
A significant element of this currently under construction in the centre of Manchester, increase is 45m for a site in Milton Keynes which is ensured that the new company was up and running from purchased under license and will be paid for as house sales the outset.
completions occur over the next seven years.
We secured a further scheme for Wescott Homes in the Creditors policy The policy for payment of creditors is second half year and have other schemes under review to agree payment terms in advance with a supplier or for the new financial year.
sub-contractor when an order is placed.
These will not necessarily be in accordance with the standard payment The balance sheet for the joint venture as at 28 February terms of the supplier concerned.
In general, payments are 2005 is included on page 58. made on a monthly basis and the Group endeavours to comply with the agreed payment terms where the amounts 28 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005
