Operating Review Trevor Bish-Jones Chief Executive The underperformance of the Mainchain 1. in October and November impacted our overall result for the second half.
The market dynamics worked against our decision to move Christmas set up to before the October half-term.
Space allocated to Toys and Gifts was increased but delivered sales below that of the displaced ranges, and the material weakness in the Toy market in particular exacerbated the effect.
Although performance in December and into early January improved, with positive like-forlike sales of 0.9 per cent for the six weeks to 15 January 2005, this was insufficient to make up for the earlier performance.
On a positive note, despite the shortfall against sales targets, we were able to 2. keep stock under control, evidencing In the 52 weeks ended 29 January 2005 that the business is now much better total Group sales increased by 2.9 per cent controlled than in prior years.
Within this, retail sales fell by 2.2 per cent and sales in Entertainment For the third successive year the underlying Wholesale and Publishing grew gross margin improved, growing by 40 26.8 per cent.
basis points and building on the 90 basis points improvement over the last two Profit before taxation, exceptional items years.
This was achieved through better and goodwill amortisation increased by sourcing, product development and 4.7 per cent to 73.1 million 2004: 69.8 continuous improvement to the ranges.
After charging the exceptional costs associated with the closures and We were particularly encouraged by reconfiguration of Woolworths big W, the increased sales in Electrical, profit before tax was 9.3 million, down Communications and Kids Dress Up from 66.7 million last year.
which were categories in which we have focused on delivering ranges to support Retail our Kids & Celebrations strategy.
Progress Total Group retail like-for-like sales was also made in Confectionery, Gifting fell by 1.7 per cent with Woolworths and Events where we concentrated on Mainchain down by 1.3 per cent, differentiating our offer from that of the Woolworths big W down 3.5 per cent competition.
In Clothing we moved the and MVC decreasing by 4.8 per cent.
traded margin forward as we developed As a result, operating profit from the sources of supply that allowed us to react Retail operations fell from 46.2 million in season.
The Entertainment market to 40.7 million.
continued to be highly competitive.
Shortages of games hardware coupled Woolworths Mainchain with a disappointing performance from Despite the disappointing second half new DVD releases over the final quarter to the year, much was accomplished in led to disappointing sales.
the Mainchain during 2004 to improve the gross margin, strengthen the infrastructure We continued to make progress in and develop the retail proposition.
These improving the operational efficiency in the initiatives remain fundamental to our business, with the rollout of the Kingstore strategy and provide a firm foundation till system completed as planned in on which to build in 2005.
October 2004, under budget and without 4Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating Review continued disruption.
These new tills not only speed As at the date of the accounts, five stores, up transaction times for our customers all of which had food planning consent, but also give our store colleagues better have been assigned and contracts on visibility of stock levels in-store.
This two further stores have been exchanged helped contribute to a further increase and are awaiting landlord approval.
in single sku in-store availability which A further two stores, where there was rose 1.4 per cent during the year to excess space, have been either sublet 93.3 per cent.
Costs, both in-store and or surrendered to the landlord.
This leaves at head office have also been controlled 15 stores on which we anticipate making tightly with the year-on-year increases further progress over the coming year.
running well below the rate of inflation.
To date, assignment or surrender of leases has generated 35.5 million of cash for the Group of which 9.0 million is recognised 10 10 Our 10 10 store refurbishment programme within the exceptional item in 2004 05. continued, with a total of 48 stores refitted and a further two new stores opened.
Looking forward, after further lease On average, relative to the Mainchain, assignments, we anticipate that refitted stores have delivered 6 per cent Woolworths out-of-town will be trading sales growth in year one, 2 per cent in year from around 17 sites.
In October 2004, two, coupled with an increase of 20 basis stores at Tamworth and Norwich were points in the gross margin in the first year.
cut down and refitted to a 40,000 square feet specification.
Christmas trading was Although rollout uplifts are below those encouraging.
A further two stores at Byker and Bristol are being opened in the seen in the earlier refits, a detailed analysis has helped us gain a better first quarter of 2005 and these four stores will then be used to refine the proposition understanding of the performance drivers and these findings will be factored into before any further investment is made in our other sites.
In the meantime, the our plans for the year ahead.
Most notably, we have found that the size remaining stores will be downsized to around 40,000 square feet.
of store and position relative to the local market are important variables in driving the sales line: and the performance Multichannel retailing of Clothing and Home are important This Christmas, for the first time we offered factors in the margin performance.
more than 4,000 additional products through the Woolworths website, including In the year ahead we plan to be refitting over 2,800 Toys and Gifts, dramatically broadening the pre-existing offer which a further 50 stores.
The preopening costs associated with the 48 refits in 2004 05 was largely entertainment based.
It is our belief that, in the long term, serving amounted to 3.3 million and are expected to continue at this level in 2005 06. customers through the integration of our online offer with our extensive store network offers good growth opportunity, Woolworths out-of-town in particular in our smaller stores where In March 2004, we announced that we a much broader product offering will would not continue to roll out Woolworths help to generate incremental sales.
The big W. Instead, a site-by-site review of the internet-enabled Kingstore till technology estate would be undertaken to assess the will play a key part in the development merits of either an outright disposal or of our evolving multichannel strategy.
reducing the size of the units to a level that would be sustainable for a Woolworths MVC out-of-town concept.
The estate was highly variable in terms of quality, size The performance of MVC improved during the year.
Despite the fall in like-for-like and retail planning consents.
sales of 4.8 per cent, losses narrowed substantially on the back of a better 6Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 7Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating Review continued margin and a tight control of costs.
The Looking ahead, many opportunities exist Board however has concluded that the to grow this business, with potential for investment required to reposition MVC further supply contracts for other retailers: is substantial and that the preferred option the Tesco books contract gives EUK is to divest the business.
This will take a substantial base on which to build place over the coming months.
In the its books capability and the business near term the 14 worst performing stores continues to build its competency in digital will be closed leaving a core of 67 stores.
Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing 2entertain This has been a year of continued progress In September 2004, we completed the for our Entertainment Wholesale and formation of a joint venture combining BBC Publishing businesses, comprising Worldwides video business with the VCI Entertainment UK and our new joint music and video publishing companies venture, 2entertain.
Operating profits from to create 2entertain Limited.
Woolworths this part of the Group rose 16.8 per cent to Group has a 40 per cent interest in the 49.3 million, before goodwill amortisation new business.
In addition to VCIs existing for the joint venture 2004: 42.2 million.
rights, 2entertain has a first option to acquire product from BBC productions.
Entertainment UK EUK Entertainment UK, our entertainment and The trading performance of the business, books distribution business performed first as VCI and then as 2entertain, has robustly during the year.
Over the key Christmas increased by 10 per cent to 1.2 billion trading period, sales were strong with and within this sales to third parties the joint venture having two of the top increased by 38.4 per cent.
This increase ten DVD releases with Little Britain was underpinned not only by the and That Peter Kay Thing.
continued growth of the DVD market but With the integration of the two entities also by new business wins such as going well, there is significant opportunity WH Smiths music and non-core video for it to benefit from its new found scale ranges and the addition of book and access to overseas markets.
Outlook In addition, in August we announced The retail trading environment is difficult, the renewal of EUKs contract to supply impacting both sales and margin.
February entertainment software to Tesco.
Under was affected by the cold weather and the the terms of this contract both parties are phasing of the entertainment release committed to working together to improve schedule.
March has been relatively supply chain efficiencies.
Undertaking stronger but on non-comparative Easter any identified improvements is a trading.
Our Entertainment Wholesale condition of the contract continuing for and Publishing businesses are trading in an initial three-year term to March 2007. line with our expectations.
We will update The entertainment market remains highly the market on the trading in the first competitive, which has resulted in pressure quarter at the Annual General Meeting, on the gross margin.
However, this has details of which are contained in the been offset by continued warehouse notice of meeting accompanying efficiencies where over the last two years, these accounts.
cost-per-pick is down 7 per cent and cost-per-return is down 22 per cent.
This has been achieved through investment in forecasting systems and tight control of overheads and as a consequence, despite the gross margin pressure, Trevor Bish-Jones EUK profits have moved forward.
Chief Executive 8Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 9Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
