Balfour Beatty plc Operating review 22 Annual report and accounts 2004 2005 performance Balfour Kilpatrick had another good year with Building, Building Profit from operations, before exceptional sales, profits and order book all well ahead of 2004.
Management and Services items in the Building, Building Management A major factor was significant activity levels and Services sector rose by 3% to 35m.
under the PFI schools contracts at Stoke and Highlights This reflected good performances in all operating Rotherham: and early work under the new schemes businesses, including a strong recovery in at North Lanarkshire and Bassetlaw.
Satisfactory Two major PFI building schemes reach financial close Balfour Beatty Construction following the losses progress was achieved on the power engineering Further increase in social housing order book incurred on a small number of contracts in the works being undertaken for BAA at Heathrow Good progress on work at Heathrow Terminal 5 first half year.
These comprise mechanical and electrical Excellent year of progress for Mansell, Heery and engineering in the rail tunnels, the station and the Review of operations Balfour Kilpatrick track transit system.
Major new projects were In Balfour Beatty Construction, profits for the secured for Manchester Royal Infirmary and year were down overall, although performance Financial summary Gateshead Schools.
Cruickshanks and Lounsdale, recovered strongly in the second half of the year Balfour Kilpatricks power systems businesses, 1,787m following contract losses in the first half on a small both had good years.
Revenue 2004: 1,586m number of projects, largely as a result of raw material Work on the Edinburgh Ring project for cost inflation between contract and project execution.
Including 113m share of joint ventures and associates Scottish Power was successfully completed, as was Operating performance was good.
The first 35m a substantial portion of the work for the upgrading phases of two major acute hospitals, University Profit from operations 2004: 34m of London Undergrounds power system.
A major College Hospital in London and Blackburn Hospital, tender for the next tranche of this work will be Before 8m exceptional charges were delivered on time and to budget.
works for the design, construction management and In the multi-services business, good progress construction of the rail station and associated facilities was made on long-term works for the Ministry of at Heathrow Terminal 5 progressed to programme.
Good progress was also made on the construction In Haden Building Management, revenues programmes under the schools PFI schemes in were flat, but profits recovered well following some Stoke and Rotherham and successful starts were adverse issues in 2004.
Major new orders were made on major new schemes in North Lanarkshire received for the maintenance portion of the Bassetlaw and Bassetlaw.
and North Lanarkshire Schools PFI projects and The refurbishment of the landmark Grosvenor substantial extra work was won under the Monteray House Hotel in London was completed on time.
management and maintenance contract for BT.
The stations upgrade for Metronet on the London Operational performance in Romec, the joint Underground is now rapidly accelerating following venture with the Royal Mail to manage and maintain the resolution of design and approvals issues.
the latters entire building stock, improved as a result After the successful office development project of increased efficiencies and better service levels, at Waverley Gate in Edinburgh for Castlemore, particularly in cleaning.
the company was awarded a second major scheme The company performed well on other major at Holborn in London.
contracts, most notably for the Department for Work Other project awards included major education and Pensions and for the English regions of the BBC, projects for York College and Glasgow City Council.
for whom the London and Scotland contracts are now In the healthcare sector, four substantial bidding.
Other major long-term customers include schemes, in Glasgow, Manchester, Birmingham and Tesco and Land Securities.
South Yorkshire, should be converted from preferred There is a high level of current bidding activity bidder to contract in 2006. in conjunction with the Groups healthcare and During the year, the company was reorganised education PFI projects and a major tender to supply into two separate units in order to address better sorting frames, through Romec, to La Poste in France both current and further anticipated growth.
Top: Refurbishment of the London Grosvenor House Hotel Balfour Beatty Construction.
Above: Programme management for the Georgia Aquarium Heery International.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 22 Haden Young had another very satisfactory In 2006, Heery will be further augmented by the year with sales and profits in line with 2004. acquisition of Charter, a Texas-based construction Healthcare schemes, in which the company is management company with annual sales of a clear market leader, continued to be a major approaching 100m, which we have agreed to revenue generator.
Its major role in both the buy, subject to due diligence.
University College London and Blackburn hospital Mansell had another very good year with schemes reached successful milestones during the sales, profits and its year-end order book increasing year and 30m of new work was secured for the significantly.
There was particularly strong growth in Churchill Hospital in Oxford.
The company has also the social housing market.
Among a number of major continued to be successful in winning and executing new projects secured was work for the Metropolitan work under the Procure 21 programme.
Housing Trust, Your Homes, Newcastle and Crossway Work on major hospital schemes at Point.
The 35m Hackney Decent Homes programme Addenbrookes, Romford and Stoke Mandeville, was successfully progressed.
2005 revenues in social amongst others progressed well.
2006 should see housing were in excess of 180m.
financial close on the Birmingham and Pinderfields Mansell has also taken advantage of a strong hospital projects.
education market with new projects secured for Work on the major central London, Cardinal Place school building in Argyll and Bute, for Unite in London, mixed-use development for Land Securities was for the University of London, the College of North completed and new orders included the Liverpool West London and a framework contract for Norfolk Arena and Conference Centre.
Heery, the US architectural, engineering and Other successes included a framework contract programme management business, had an excellent for BTs 21st Century Network Programme, a threeyear with profits well ahead of 2004 and two recent year job centre programme for the Department for acquisitions successfully integrated.
Work and Pensions and the first phase of the five-year, Heerys business is largely with public sector 127m masterplan programme for United States clients, most notably in education, healthcare, justice Air Force accommodation at Lakenheath in Suffolk.
Progress was good, Mansell has framework agreements with a potential across the board, in 2005, with successful, on-time value of over 1bn.
completions on a range of projects including the Outlook new Georgia Aquarium in Atlanta, the worlds With substantial further growth in last years record largest aquarium.
order books and over 1bn more work at preferred Early in the year, Heery acquired JCM Group, bidder stage, we anticipate good progress in the one of Southern Californias premier project building sector in 2006. management companies.
This followed the 2004 acquisition of HLM, a recognised leader in the planning and design of healthcare projects.
JCM Group won the US Construction Management Project Achievement Award from the Construction Management Association of America for its work on a medical centre in Burbank, California.
Top: North Lanarkshire School, electrical services refurbishment Balfour Kilpatrick.
Above: Crossway Point social housing development Mansell.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Balfour Beatty plc 23 23 Annual report and accounts 2004 Balfour Beatty plc Operating review continued 24 Annual report and accounts 2004 2005 performance Profit from operations, before exceptional items, in Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services more than tripled to 49m in 2005.
This excellent result reflected good progress in all the UK businesses, together with a substantially improved performance in civil engineering in the US.
Review of operations Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering in the UK performed well, in a relatively flat market environment.
In the roads sector, on-time, on-budget completions were achieved on the 130m M77 Glasgow Southern Orbital PFI scheme and the 148m M25 widening scheme adjacent to Heathrow Airport, both very challenging projects.
We were awarded the 241m project to widen the M1 motorway between Junction 6A and Junction 10 and the 171m scheme for the Civil and Specialist A421 in Bedfordshire.
Engineering and Services Balfour Beatty now has six major Early Contractor Involvement schemes for the Highways Agency.
Highlights Tunnelling works on the Steg Raron rail projects in Switzerland were successfully completed as was Almost 1bn of new work secured by Balfour Beatty the new Manchester Business Park.
The award of Utilities the civil engineering works for the new ticket hall at US civil engineering returns to profit Kings Cross Station is anticipated in the near future.
Two new long-term road maintenance The regional civil engineering businesses contracts secured performed well, with good contributions from the Substantial increase in order book for Gammon in long-term framework agreements for the Highways Hong Kong Agency and Cambridgeshire and Durham County Councils.
Airport maintenance work for BAA in Financial summary Scotland also progressed well.
The contract for the maintenance of the Forth Railway Bridge was 1,920m extended for a further three-year period.
Revenue 2004: 1,443m New civils contracts for Network Rail were Including 554m share of joint ventures and associates begun in the year and a major project at the Isle of 49m Grain was secured.
Profit from operations 2004: 16m Balfour Beatty Management, the Groups professional services business continued to develop its presence in the markets for project and programme management.
It will play a major part in the Greater Manchester Gas Alliance project for National Grid and is also working on projects for BAA and London Underground.
Progress on the programme and project management contract for the major rail development works at Kings Cross, was satisfactory.
Top: Ground improvement work in Valencia Top: Yorkshire Water asset upgrading Balfour Beatty Utilities.
Above: Shenzhen Western Corridor, Hong Kong Above: The new bridge in Montrose Gammon Construction.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 24 Balfour Beatty Power Networks, which designs Bidding opportunities in 2006 include several county Tunnelling work for a major water project in and constructs power transmission and distribution council contracts and the contract for the M25, Providence Rhode Island and the civil works for networks, had a very good year with sales and profits which is to be let as a single PFI.
the Greenbush commuter rail line refurbishment well ahead of 2004.
Activity levels were boosted by Stent, the Groups specialist foundations and piling project in Boston progressed well.
the 100 kilometre line between the East Midlands and business, achieved organic sales and profit growth The emergence of a US PFI market offers new East Anglia.
The Central Network contract was also and acquired Pennine Group.
Pennine specialises in opportunities for the business.
expanded to cover the West Midlands.
Volumes of the treatment and preparation of poor ground using In Dubai, Dutco Balfour Beatty, in which the work under a number of other contracts for National self-manufactured specialist machinery and has been Group has a 49% interest, performed steadily in a Grid continued to be high and the cabling contract for successfully integrated into the business.
Its sales and order book have the Western Power Distribution system was renewed.
During the year, work was completed on the M25 grown rapidly over recent months.
The 400m There was also good progress on the Sunderland widening project and the new Arsenal football stadium.
contract to build the Burj Mall, the worlds largest Street Lighting PFI project.
In December, financial close Progress was good on the multi-use development site retail complex is making sound progress.
The civil was reached on the South Tyneside Street Lighting PFI at White City in West London.
Work on the M1 widening engineering and mechanical engineering businesses project, under which the company will replace 80% of project will begin in the near future.
have also both progressed well.
the existing lighting infrastructure over the first five years.
The performance of BSR Metro, an internal During the year, a shopping mall for IKEA was The company also won contracts for Australias Balfour Beatty joint venture which provides a range completed and the mechanical and electrical work for a power transmission expansion programme.
of services to Metronets London Underground PPP new terminal at Dubai Airport made substantial progress.
In the gas and water sectors, Balfour Beatty concessions was good.
Work in support of our Balfour Beatty Sakti in Indonesia, in which Utilities sales grew substantially as a result of construction operation in Dubai increased.
the Group has a 49% interest, had low activity rates.
a series of major contract wins following 2004 Devonport Management Ltd, in which the In Hong Kong, the performance of Gammon, regulatory review.
Profits were in line with those Group has a 24.5% interest, continued to perform well in which Balfour Beatty has a 50% interest, was in of 2004 despite the substantial mobilisation and to increase its revenues.
The nuclear submarine line with that of last year.
The order book increased costs incurred in preparing to service its major refuelling programme progressed well with Vanguard sharply during the year.
In 2005, Gammon has been new commitments.
completed and Victorious now in dock.
The ship repair undergoing an adaptation of its processes and systems In 2005, the company won new long-term contracts programme was steady as was performance in the to the Balfour Beatty model.
for gas mains replacement in Greater Manchester: maintenance of the naval base.
During the year, the major rail terminus and clean water upgrade and maintenance work for DML will, undoubtedly, have an active part to immigration hall project at Lok Ma Chau progressed Yorkshire Water, Severn Trent Water, Anglian Water play in the Governments plans for developing and well and the Shenzhen Western Corridor and Deep and South West Water: and clean water and sewerage managing the UKs maritime industrial base.
Bay Link projects were substantially completed.
These contracts are worth The performance of Balfour Beatty The refurbishment of the Mandarin Hotel also made approaching 1bn over their full terms and constitute Construction Inc in the US showed radical good progress.
a step-change in the size and scope of the business.
improvement after the heavy losses of 2003 and 2004.
The year saw some very substantial project Performance on the existing contracts and on The marine engineering business in which the majority wins including the 175m Venetian Tower Hotel and the early stages of the new ones was satisfactory.
of the losses were incurred has been closed and its Casino project in Macau and, later, a 29m extension In road management and maintenance, RCS had final project is now nearing completion.
Macau offers an increasingly strong market another very successful year with both sales and profits some claim settlements on its completed projects.
Gammon also won the 140m civil well ahead of 2004 and its order book further extended.
The highways business in Texas continued to perform well engineering and tunnelling contract for part of The company performed well on its three longwith good progress made on the $1.3bn SH 130 toll road the Kowloon Southern Link.
A contract to manage term Highways Agency contracts for Areas 2, 3 and 4. project, the $84m SH 121 and other contracts.
The Western and maintain high-speed roads was also secured.
Contracts for maintaining local authority roads Division in California performed steadily on a range of Prospects for market and performance in Hampshire, North Yorkshire, Westminster and projects including road widening schemes in Los Angeles improvement in Gammon are good.
Wokingham and PFI concession roads in Devon, and San Diego, the extension of the Downtown Seattle Outlook Dorset, Derbyshire, Yorkshire and the West of Bus Terminal and the Roseville Water Treatment Plant.
With strong order books and a number of large new Scotland also progressed satisfactorily.
The Central Division also continued to perform contracts in their early stages, we anticipate further Towards the end of the year, RCS won steadily and progress a range of road projects largely growth momentum in 2006 in the engineering sector.
road management and maintenance contracts for in Pennsylvania and Ohio.
north-west Scotland and Mid and East Essex to During the year, the long-awaited SAFETEA a total potential value of approximately 200m.
federal transport funding programme, increased federal Decisions on extending our relationships in Hampshire, spending on transportation projects by 38% in the Yorkshire and Highways Area 3 are imminent.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Balfour Beatty plc 25 25 Annual report and accounts 2004 Balfour Beatty plc Operating review continued 26 Annual report and accounts 2004 2005 performance New UK major project work will be slow to Rail Engineering Profit from operations, before exceptional items, materialise in the short term, although the company and Services in Rail Engineering and Services fell by 27% to is prequalifying for the upgrade of the East London 32m in 2005.
This reflected a sound performance Line and Crossrail, Thameslink and the Olympic Highlights in the core UK and European businesses, Games offer good long-term prospects.
but also a first full year without UK maintenance, Performance in Balfour Beatty Rail Track Metro do Porto project completed a generally tighter UK market and some further Systems was slightly down on 2004.
A reduction Terminal 5 work progressing well losses in the rail engineering business in the US.
in Network Rails demand for switches and crossings Strong renewals volumes for Network Rail and was offset by increased Metronet demand under London Underground Review of operations the London Underground PPP.
Early 2006 demand Balfour Beatty Rail Infrastructure Services, On-time delivery of Berlin tunnel project from Network Rail is significantly improved.
is now concentrated on track renewals following Export sales to Israel, Taiwan and the US continued.
the completion of the transfer of the maintenance Financial summary Investment in the manufacturing facilities activities to Network Rail in 2004.
2005 saw only continued, with new forging machines installed in 766m some residual income as a result of finalising February 2006.
It was announced in January 2006 Revenue 2004: 803m outstanding liabilities from this source.
In renewals, that Balfour Beatty had agreed, subject to due 2005 saw a first full year of work under the new Including 3m share of joint ventures and associates diligence, to acquire Edgar Allen, a strong player Network Rail track contracts which came into force 32m in the track systems and components market.
in April 2004 and as a result of which Balfour Beatty Profit from operations 2004: 44m In Balfour Beatty Rail Plant, profits were has become Network Rails largest supplier.
The UK major rail project market declined, Before 12m exceptional charges Under these contracts, Balfour Beatty is affecting the performance of the road and rail fleet.
responsible for plain line renewals in the Anglia and Despite some early operating setbacks we remain Southern regions and switches and crossings renewals confident that new high output track machines in London North-East, Southern and Anglia regions.
will prove excellent investments in the longer term.
Volumes ran broadly at anticipated levels.
In November, the company secured a three-year 2005 profits were augmented by final settlements of contract for the provision of road rail plant for Network the previous generation of track renewal contracts.
Rail and the year ended on a high note when the In Balfour Beatty Rail Projects, profits company was awarded two further new contracts, increased, with significant progress on the West likely to be worth approximately 65m, for tamping Coast Main Line electrification project, the design and ballast regulating services in the South East and and installation work for the Heathrow Express and East Midlands.
These contracts, which are for the Piccadilly Line extensions at Heathrow Terminal 5 and provision of 28 machines, begin on 1 April 2006. an acceleration of the trackwork renewal programme Balfour Beatty Rail Technologies continued for Metronet under the London Underground PPP.
its work on a number of safety-related technical During the year, a further contract on the West Coast developments, most notably XiTRACK, a polymerMain Line modernisation programme was secured.
based stabilisation technology for track and other This involves the delivery of 13 feeder stations and infrastructure.
620 miles of high voltage feeder and is worth 110m.
Outside the UK, work was substantially completed on the project to install trackwork and electrification on the extension of the Santiago Metro.
New projects were secured for the upgrade of the existing rail link between Sydney and Brisbane for the Australian Track Corporation and for the design and construction of trackwork for the latest extension of the mass rapid transit system in Singapore.
The company also had some success in the signalling market following the acquisition of Bombardiers solid state signalling resources in the UK last year.
Above: Ballast tamping Above: Track renewals on the London Underground Balfour Beatty Rail Infrastructure Services.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 26 A wide range of non-destructive testing programmes The major Metro do Porto project, for which the Italian for Network Rail was also progressed.
A decision business was responsible, was successfully completed is expected soon in respect of a remote condition with bonuses paid for on-time and on-budget delivery.
monitoring system for the West Coast Main Line.
InSpain, the market was strong, good progress A new remote inspection system has been awarded was made on a number of projects and new projects at London Bridge to reduce safety hazard exposure were secured.
A major export contract was won in for manual track inspections.
early 2006 in China on the Tianjin-Shenyang line.
Work is in hand on various life extension and The Swedish business has grown significantly asset condition projects for Metronet.
in 2004 and 2005 and progress on the two major Balfour Beatty Rail Power Systems, contracts for trackwork and associated system works the international electrification and power supply in the north and electrification on the east coast business, had a very good year, with increased profits.
In Germany, despite a difficult domestic market In Austria, performance was steady.
Prospects, performance was significantly better than last including a major upgrade to the Vienna train system, year following cost reductions and reorganisation.
Order intake in Germany improved, reflecting the first In Malaysia, the installation programme for signs of a recovery in Deutsche Bahns investment the Rawang-Ipoh line is accelerating following the spending patterns.
The company secured the largest appointment of a new civil engineering contractor.
order let in 2005 by DB Energy for Mannheim Completion of this project is scheduled for 2007. substation and increased its overall market share.
Balfour Beatty Rail Inc in the United States IVV, its consultancy business, had a solid year.
had another difficult year, largely as a result of The contract in central Berlin to project manage, continuing problems on a major signalling project in supply and design overhead line, conductor rail, power Philadelphia.
Discussions with the customer with a view supply units and electro-technical equipment for the to finding a solution to the projects difficulties are in rail system was completed on schedule, as was the hand.
Elsewhere in the mass transit sector, the major high-speed electrification project between Ingolstadt and project at Greenbush in Boston made satisfactory Nuremberg.
Work to electrify and extend Dublins metro progress, as did the Goldline project in Los Angeles.
network was also completed on time.
Good progress The rail services business, a branch network of was made in providing the power supply for the new local businesses providing maintenance and project Betuweroute freight line between Rotterdam and the services to a range of industrial customers, performed German border.
During the year, the company secured well.
Activities include rail and tie replacement, a first catenary project in Romania.
Wholly Owned maintenance, vegetation control and upgrading and Foreign Enterprise Status has now been achieved operating line sections.
Customers include the mineral in China.
extraction industry in Wyoming and a range of goods In August, the company acquired SBB, a specialist and shunting yards on the US heavy freight network.
German signalling contractor, for a14m, subsequently This business has made rapid progress in recent renamed Balfour Beatty Rail Signal.
It operates, years and now has 16 branch offices.
predominantly, in the former East Germany and A strategy review is now under way in Balfour renews and installs signalling systems under existing Beatty Rail Inc. under a new management team.
Following this acquisition, There remains substantial potential for this business the company won its first electronic signalling contract as transit and Class 1 volumes continue to grow in in Dortmund, with Bombardier.
In Italy, performance was good.
The newlyOutlook electrified line between Rome and Naples is now 2006 should see a resumption of progress, based on running high-speed trains successfully and good increased efficiencies and improving volumes on progress was made on the first stage of the line projects on the London Underground and in Germany between Milan and Turin and other high-speed and Italy.
It is likely that the contracts The potential to strengthen the Groups presence for both Milan to Verona and Genoa to Milan will be in this sector continues to be explored.
Top: Switches and crossings supplied to Network Rail Balfour Beatty Rail Track Systems.
Above: High-speed rail electrification between Milan and Turin Balfour Beatty Rail Power Systems.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Balfour Beatty plc 27 27 Annual report and accounts 2004 Balfour Beatty plc Operating review continued 28 Annual report and accounts 2004 Balfour Beatty Capital Projects is a leader in the UK PPP PFI market with 18 concessions and four further projects at preferred bidder stage.
A further ten bids have been submitted or are in preparation.
Investments and developments Barking Power is a Highlights leading independent Bassetlaw and North Lanarkshire schools and South Tyneside street lighting projects reach financial close power producer with a Shareholding in Consorts Edinburgh Royal Infirmary concession increased to 73.9% Preferred bidder status achieved for Northern 1,000MW gas-fired station Batched Hospitals project Another strong performance for Barking Power Ltd at Barking Reach, London.
Financial summary 465m Revenue 2004: 407m Including 431m share of joint ventures and associates 20m Profit from operations 2004: 17m Before 36m exceptional profits Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 28 The Market These projects will, typically, not only provide The PFI market remains buoyant.
In healthcare, attractive investment opportunities but also trade despite signs of a decline in very large single building on the proven strengths of, and provide design, PFI acute schemes, Balfour Beatty is tracking the construction and service contracts for other parts progress of 15 major schemes with a value of of the Balfour Beatty Group.
4.4bn and is currently bidding one such scheme.
Balfour Beatty will continue to monitor the In education, the Building Schools for the Future development of other national markets and is actively initiative provides new longer term opportunities pursuing opportunities in both the US and Germany.
alongside traditional PFI education projects.
2005 performance The programme extends to 2020 and is forecast to Profit from operations, before exceptional items, generate 40bn.
Balfour Beatty is currently bidding in Investments and Developments rose by 18% two BSF and two traditional PFI education projects.
This represents the post-tax The acquisition of Mansell has enhanced the Groups concession profits from those PFI and other expertise in the social housing market and a joint PFI concessions which are in joint venture with other social housing scheme is being bid in Ashford, Kent.
During the year, three concessions were We anticipate a proliferation of opportunities in converted to contract from preferred bidder status this sector.
and preferred bidder status was achieved for the In the roads sector, PPP is the chosen procurement Northern Batched Hospitals scheme, making four method for the 1.5bn M25 widening project, where projects at preferred bidder stage at the year bidding will commence in 2006, and there are potential end in all.
opportunities of a similar scale for the M1, M6 and M4.
Outlook Strategy We anticipate that the operating performance of Balfour Beatty will continue to pursue opportunities our concessions will continue to meet expectations, in those existing markets where it has clear that further major projects will reach financial close competitive advantages and market leading positions.
during the year and that we will make further Projects will continue to be targeted whose size and satisfactory progress in 2006. complexity offer advantages arising from the Groups unique range of skills and experience.
Above: M77 Glasgow Southern Orbital Road Connect.
Above: University College London Hospital Top: Rotherham County Council Transform Schools.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Balfour Beatty plc 29 29 Annual report and accounts 2004 Balfour Beatty plc Operating review continued 30 Annual report and accounts 2004 Investments and developments continued Healthcare Education Roads Consort, the established Balfour Beatty business Transform Schools, the established Balfour Beatty The profit and cash performance of Connect Roads, brand in the healthcare market, performed brand in the education market, performed well in Balfour Beattys brand in the highways market, well in 2005, contributing profits and cash 2005.
Its portfolio comprises interests in five schools was in line with that of 2004. at anticipated levels.
schemes, representing 30m of committed equity, In December 2005, 15% of Balfour Beattys Consort Healthcares portfolio comprises interests of which the Birmingham Schools project is at interest in the A30 A35 in Devon and Dorset, the A50 in seven major hospital schemes and represents a preferred bidder stage.
The Stoke concession is the in Derbyshire and the M77 GSO in Scotland was sold 2 committed equity investment of 112m, 50m of largest grouped schools scheme in England, covering to I for a consideration of 13.5m.
These concessions which is in three projects at preferred bidder stage.
98 schools, and has been operational since 2000 to had previously been 100% owned.
The A30 A35 and In December 2005, Balfour Beatty increased its high levels of client satisfaction.
A50 projects have been fully operational since 2000 and shareholding in the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary concession The concession for Rotherham Schools became 1998 respectively.
The M77 GSO was completed and from 42.5% to 73.9% for a consideration of 31m.
operational in June 2003 and is also highly successful.
opened to traffic in April 2005.
As these concessions This underlines the confidence which the Group feels In 2005, it was awarded Best Community Use Project are now under joint control their finances have been in the value and earning capacity of its concessions.
in the PPP PFI Journal Awards.
deconsolidated from the Balfour Beatty balance sheet.
North Durham Hospital and Edinburgh Royal In June 2005, Transform reached financial close on Balfour Beatty has a 50% interest in the M1 A1 Link Infirmary were already fully operational at the beginning the 140m scheme to build and maintain 21 new schools near Leeds, which has been operational since 1999. of 2005.
In May 2005, Phase I of the University College for North Lanarkshire Council.
In July, financial close Connect has 100% owned street lighting projects, Hospital in London opened on time and on budget.
was also achieved for the 127m scheme in Bassetlaw, in Sunderland, which has been operational since 2003, Phase I of Blackburn Hospital was opened, on time and North Nottinghamshire, including six new schools, two and South Tyneside, which reached financial close in on budget, in October 2005.
The 521m Birmingham post-16 learning centres and two new leisure centres.
December 2005. scheme and the 250m Pinderfields scheme are The 56m Birmingham concession is due to reach In all, Balfour Beatty currently has committed scheduled to reach financial close during 2006. financial close during 2006.
Under this scheme, equity investment of 61m in UK roads and In November 2005, Consort was appointed preferred Transform will provide 12 new and refurbished schools.
bidder for the 190m Northern Batched Hospitals Active bids are in hand for new PFI schemes Bids are in preparation for a further five schemes.
scheme, which will create new and upgraded facilities in Newcastle, Aberdeen and Knowsley, with an These are the 250m Northern Ireland roads package, in Salford and Tameside in Manchester.
A bid is in aggregate total value of 375m.
Transform has also the 175m Tyne Tunnel, street lighting schemes in Derby preparation for the Fife Hospital Scheme with an prequalified for two schemes under the Building and Surrey with a combined capital value of 105m anticipated capital value of approximately 100m.
Schools for the Future programme.
and the 35m Carlisle Northern Development Route.
Consort Healthcare has strengthened its Transform Schools, with four operational schemes leadership position in the PPP hospitals market and with an aggregate capital value of over 400m, is now further developed its proven track record and high a clear leader in the education market.
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary: 73.9%Stoke: 50%M1-A1: 50% University Hospital of North Durham: 50%Rotherham: 50% A50 Stoke Derby link: 85% University College London Hospital UCLH : 33% North Lanarkshire: 50%A30 A35: 85% Blackburn: 50%Bassetlaw: 50% M77 Glasgow Southern Orbital: 85% Sunderland Street Lighting: 100% Birmingham: 50% Birmingham: 50% South Tyneside Street Lighting 100% Pinderfields: 50% Preferred bidder Northern Batched: 50% Preferred bidder Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 30 The London Underground Other infrastructure concessions Barking Power Since April 2003, Metronet has operated and The Group has two other infrastructure concessions.
Barking Power again performed very strongly in 2005. maintained the infrastructure for the Bakerloo, These are Powerlink, in which the Group has a 10% Availability was excellent, with planned maintenance Central, Victoria and the Sub-Surface Lines for London interest and which is responsible for the upgrade and completed on schedule and very few unplanned Underground under 30-year concession contracts.
maintenance of London Undergrounds high voltage outages.
Electricity prices for the 27% of the stations Profits from the Groups 20% share in Metronets power system.
Discussions are currently in hand with output that is sold on the open market also continued concessions were satisfactory.
The underlying London Underground to restructure this concession.
operational performance of the infrastructure for Aberdeen Environmental Services, which is During the year, Barking Power agreed a which Metronet is responsible continued to be on a responsible for waste water treatment in Aberdeen claim for damages for breach of contract for 179m satisfactorily improving trend and in line with previous performed satisfactorily in line with the previous year.
following TXU Europes entry into administration expectations.
Costs increased as the major investment The total equity committed to these concessions in November 2002.
TXU Europe had both an equity programmes began to accelerate.
investment and a power purchase agreement with As reported last year, the major station Barking Power Limited prior to its insolvency.
refurbishment programme and some other elements Dividends of 164m were received by Barking of Metronets capital works programme were slow Power from the settlement for damages during 2005 in getting under way as design, approvals and and, consequently, Balfour Beatty has recognised a mobilisation processes have been further developed net exceptional profit of 30m, after tax of 12m.
Within the next 4 2 years 150 stations will have been refurbished as will have countless other civil assets.
The pace of activity continues to accelerate, now under a new management team and a new organisational structure.
The Group has committed 70m of equity investment in Metronet.
Metronet BCV: 20%Powerlink PADCO: 10% 25% Metronet SSL: 20% Aberdeen Environmental Services: 45% Barking Power Ltd: 25.5% Infrastructure Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Balfour Beatty plc 31 31 Annual report and accounts 2004 Directors valuation of PFI PPP concessions Introduction Our portfolio Balfour Beattys PPP concession portfolio has grown in recent years to become a very significant part of the 5 1 Groups business and a major driver of shareholder value.
At 31 December 2005, Balfour Beatty had total committed equity and subordinated debt of 5 1 283 million across 22 projects, four of which were at preferred bidder stage.
At that date, 149 million 2 had already been invested and 134 million is due 4 4 over the next six years.
Valuations of PPP equity often rely on the use of multiples to produce a proxy cash flow valuation.
3 This produces somewhat crude benchmarks as such an 2 approach takes no account of the time value of money, expected rate of return of the asset, the performance Total equity committed by sector 283m Cash invested by December 2005 149m of the asset or the potential for capital restructuring.
1 Connect: 6 projects 61m 1 Connect: 6 projects 56m In order to provide a more reliable indicator 2 Consort: 7 projects 112m 2 Consort: 7 projects 59m of value, Balfour Beatty has decided to publish its own valuation benchmark for the Groups PPP 3 Transform: 5 projects 30m 3 Transform: 5 projects 0m investments, based largely on discounting expected 4 Metronet: 2 projects 70m 4 Metronet: 2 projects 27m future cash flows but without taking into account 5 Other: 2projects 10m 5 Other: 2 projects 7m potential refinancing gains.
This will, henceforth, be a regular feature of Balfour Beattys Annual Report and Accounts.
Portfolio valuation: December 2005 2005 valuation 5 1 4 3 54 1 At 31 December 2005, the Directors valuation of Balfour Beattys portfolio stood at 289 million, 2 34 at a weighted average, post-tax nominal discount rate of 8.2%: compared with 243 million at the end of 2004.
The movement in value arises both through shareholder cash inflows and outflows and through underlying growth in the portfolio arising from the unwinding of the discount rate from year to year.
A 1% change in the discount rate impacts value by approximately 30 million.
An analysis of the movement in value between 2 years is shown at the foot of this page.
Value by sector 289m Value by phase 289m 1 Connect 123m 1 Operations 243m 2 Consort 116m 2 Metronet 33m 3 Transform 3m 3 Preferred bidder 7m 4 Metronet 33m 4 Construction 6m 5 Other 14m Movement in value 2004 2005 m Equity 2004 invested Distributions Purchases Disposals Rebased Growth 2005 Growth 243 30 13 31 14 277 12 289 4.3% Balfour Beatty plc Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Annual report and accounts 2005 32 32 The valuation method DCF has been used on 19 of the 22 investments.
Assurance The valuation does not set out to estimate the market For projects which have reached financial close, The calculations underpinning the valuation value of the investments in the portfolio, but rather, forecast future cash flows are extracted from detailed have been independently checked to ensure that through the application of a consistent methodology, financial models, updated in line with operational the valuation has been accurately carried out illustrates movements in underlying values between experience and lenders requirements.
For projects in accordance with the specified methodology.
periods and highlights the impact of intervening at preferred bidder stage, the current financial model However, the detailed financial models have not transactions.
The valuation covers 18 concessions has been used.
that have reached financial close and four at Book value preferred bidder stage.
One of two methods has been For the other three concessions, the current carrying used to establish the value of individual concessions.
value in the accounts book value has been used.
DCF Metronet is at too early a stage in its 30-year The principal method used to value the portfolio is concessions to forecast cash flows with the same discounted cash flow DCF.
This is applied to the degree of certainty as the majority of the Groups future forecast cash flows to which Balfour Beatty concessions.
In the case of Powerlink, discussions as a shareholder and a holder of subordinated debt are currently in hand with London Underground over is entitled in order to create a net present value NPV.
DCF methodology The DCF methodology discounts forecast cash flows at differing discount rates depending on the project phase, and therefore the risk associated with the cash flows.
Any investment cash flows occurring during the construction period are rolled forward at a risk free rate 5% to the final injection of equity at construction completion.
Cash flows, anticipated to occur during the operations period, are discounted back to the beginning of the operations phase at 8%.
Where cash flows occur during operations build up a discount rate of 10% is used during that period if demand risk is present.
A net present value is calculated at the end of the construction period by deducting the investment cash flows that occur at this time from the value of the discounted cash flows at the beginning of operations.
The net present value at the end of the construction period is then discounted back to financial close at 12%.
Any projects at preferred bidder have a scaling factor of 50% applied to the NPV at financial close.
A diagrammatic illustration of the process is shown below.
Preferred bidder Construction Operations Apply scaling factor of 50% to Discount NPV from construction NPV at financial close completion by 12% Discount future cash flows at 8% to start of operations Inflate early cash injections to construction completion date at 5% gilt rate Valuation Financial End of Concession date close and construction end start of and start of construction operations Balfour Beatty plc Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Annual report and accounts 2005 33 33
