BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 11 Chief Executives Operating Review Volume Growth At the beginning of our financial year, several increases in interest rates had the desired effect of dampening an overheated housing market.
Our customers began taking longer to commit to their purchase as they returned to a more normal pattern of decision making before reserving their new home.
Nevertheless, despite this tempering of the market, I am pleased to report that the Group achieved yet another year of organic growth, and in so doing has reached another milestone by selling 7,001 new homes, an increase of 5.9%.
As a result Group turnover has grown to 1.178 billion, an increase of 7.8%, producing a record pre-tax profit of 218.2 million, an increase of 6.2%.
Squires Court, Bedminster, Bristol BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 12 Profile With an average selling price of 163,800, the Groups focus continues to be firmly established in the lower to middle market where demand remains the strongest.
Whilst the Groups product range covers all sectors of the market, with the exception of Newbury Central, Newbury Park, Essex retirement housing, 47% of the legal completions last year had an average selling price below 150,000.
Bellway has a broad national coverage serving most areas of the country which gives us flexibility to react quickly to changes in the market across the UK.
Of the 7,001 new homes, 53% were sold through the northern divisions, which cover an area from Birmingham to Perth in Scotland, with the remaining 47% through our southern divisions.
Whilst the Group increased the sales of both private and social homes, the increase in the latter was more pronounced.
During the year the Group sold 828 homes to housing associations for rent or shared ownership, with an average selling price of 88,200, an increase of 262 homes.
This area of the business has a bias towards the south of the country at present and is a result of building relationships with various local authorities, government agencies and housing associations.
We are, however, likely to see an increasing contribution from the north of the country as we have been chosen as preferred partner in some of the largest regeneration projects in the country in areas such as Liverpool, Birmingham, North Nottinghamshire and Newcastle.
This success will not only produce a steady land supply but will also increase our supply to the first time buyer market.
John K Watson Chief Executive BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chief Executives Operating Review continued 13 Divisional Performance The northern divisions increased output by over 300 homes in The southern divisions also increased volume output.
Planning the year thereby increasing turnover by 14% to 577 million.
permissions in this part of the country are typically being released East Scotland commenced operations and produced its first 52 with a greater percentage of affordable social housing, especially in completions and we hope to see output steadily increasing over the the North London, South East and Thames Gateway divisions.
At a time when many local authorities are imposing a As a consequence, the average selling price in the southern divisions moratorium on the release of new planning permissions for has seen a small reduction to 171,800 from 172,900 but this, residential development, our two divisions in the North West combined with an increase in volume, produced a slight increase in of England produced over 1,200 homes - a creditable performance, turnover to 570 million, compared to last years 561million.
All one of which, West Lancashire division, has the lowest average of the southern divisions have an average selling price of less than selling price in the Group of 135,000.
The South East division benefited from the completion divisions have seen excellent growth in the period achieving between of a high rise project in Woking and consequently increased output them over 1,000 home sales for the first time.
We are pleased to in the year.
The Wessex division, having successfully completed a announce that in August 2005 we were nominated as preferred site of 150 apartments in Bristol, made steady progress during the developer for five sites totalling 600 homes at Meden Valley in year.
The Thames Gateway North division has now firmly North Nottinghamshire.
established itself and is ideally situated to benefit from any increased demand generated by the impact of London being awarded the 2012 Olympics.
This means Bellway now has 17 fully operational divisions.
Whilst the Group has the potential and desire to increase this number in future, the existing structure itself can generate volume growth because nine divisions last year traded at less than what we consider to be the optimum economic scale.
Growth through these divisions will produce better overhead recovery.
Saville Place, Lydiate, Liverpool BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 14 Ruchill, Glasgow City Solutions benefit the local area.
Furthermore, we have now obtained preferred With well over 70% of sales on brownfield land, we recognise that developer status on two other schemes and we hope to reach formal future land supply will come more from regeneration opportunities as agreement to develop these in the near future.
None of these opposed to traditional greenfield releases.
As regeneration quite often projects are in our land bank figures.
involves many different government agencies and sectors of the local community, this wider consultation process is undertaken by the City Solutions team.
When City Solutions has won a scheme, they then hand it over to the local division who process the project through to the development stage.
The City Solutions team is extremely busy at the present time and we expect that to continue, given that urban regeneration is one of the key housing themes of the Labour Governments third term in office.
In the year under review, we signed an agreement with North Solihull Council giving Bellway the right to develop 50% of a regeneration scheme.
This will cover 15 neighbourhoods and the whole scheme may well produce over 5,000 new homes, together with schools and shopping centres, to The Old Tannery, Canterbury, Kent BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chief Executives Operating Review continued 15 Sales Incentives and Cost Control Land Bank During the year under review, sales incentives have been used on The quality of the Groups land bank is the key to delivering future more and more occasions to support the targeted selling rate.
Maintaining this quality is paramount to Bellway Typically these may include discount, part exchange and other such and the Group has been extremely careful, particularly in the year inducements aimed at specific plots which were proving more difficult under review, not to over pay for land in a weakening sales market.
Customer groups such as first time buyers also benefit from We have also been working hard to re-plan as many sites as possible financial packages to assist them on to the housing ladder.
These to increase their densities.
This process of re-planning will help to additional selling costs have impinged on our margin, but are being underpin margins in our land bank going forward and is encouraged used by our divisions at acceptable levels.
During the year, cost in all divisions.
inflation, especially in the labour market, had been more difficult to The Group has acquired circa 8,800 new plots in the year, 1,800 control on a localised basis.
We are now beginning to see an plots more than were sold.
The total number of plots, with the increased supply of quality labour coming from countries who have benefit of planning permission recorded on the balance sheet, now recently joined the European Union and we hope this will moderate stands at 22,500, compared with 20,700 last year.
Once again, a these cost increases in future.
The industry, for many years, did not large percentage of the plots acquired were converted from our invest in a future labour force but our apprenticeship scheme, which medium term land pipeline.
Two sites accommodating 664 plots in has been successfully implemented throughout the country, should the East of London, one site in Canterbury for 450 plots, which is ensure that the mistakes of the past are not repeated.
within walking distance of the cathedral, and 580 plots in the North The continued use of prefabricated components has helped mitigate West, are examples of this conversion from the pipeline where sites the impact of build cost increases.
For example, timber framed can be held for anything from 12 to 60 months.
Even after these construction was used in 25% of the homes we completed during successes, we still have 12,000 plots in our medium term land bank the course of the year.
These framing systems are constructed where and, whilst this figure includes our share from the joint venture at speed can produce a cost saving.
Areas such as Milton Keynes also Barking Riverside with English Partnerships, it excludes all the land embrace modern methods of construction using the Eco Homes from our new urban regeneration schemes mentioned earlier.
concept to raise environmental standards and consequently this area is one of the most sustainable communities in the country.
Despite the cost pressures from both sales and construction, we have been able to maintain our operating margin at last years record level of 19.5%.
Waterford Gate, Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 16 Health and Safety The Environment Obviously best practice in the management of health and safety Whilst the grant of planning permission is often perceived by local is vital.
During the year we have concentrated on reducing the communities to be damaging to the local environment, this is definitely number of reportable accidents and falls from height.
The Group, for example, has pledged since January increases so inevitably does the height of the buildings under 2005, to pay some 1.1 million on education facilities, 400,000 on construction.
More and more of our homes are now constructed sports and community centres and 1.7 million on public open space at two and a half storeys or higher and it is important that the Group and recreation areas.
There are numerous other payments covering recognises this and sets new achievement targets on an annual basis.
the likes of nature reserves, riverside walkways and highways.
Health and Safety both on site and in the office are a priority and our Recently the Group has also entered into an agreement with Scottish stance starts from the proposition that one accident is one too many.
Power to supply renewable electricity to the majority of our new homes throughout the UK.
In so doing, this utility company will undertake to supply clean green hydro power into the electricity grid thereby further supporting the environment through a cleaner form of energy.
Outlook Notwithstanding the present uncertainties, Bellway has continued its policy of forward selling and this has generated a strong order book at 31st July which has been further supplemented by trading in the first two months of the financial year and now stands at 597m.
We also intend to continue to increase the number of sales outlets and urban regeneration projects and these, combined with the Groups operational network, should put Bellway in an excellent position to further improve our volume growth and enhance our already excellent track record in the future.
