Close Brothers CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT project team has been working in consultation Corporate finance grew its revenues by some with the external auditors and other technical 18 per cent.
Work is still in progress but at this demonstrated great progress, with profit up stage we believe that the implementation of 83 per cent.
IFRS will overall have a slightly adverse, but not material, impact on the consolidated financial Asset Management position and results of the group in the 2006 The strong level of profitability at the interim financial year, principally as a result of the stage was repeated in the second half to give a requirement to expense some 4 million relating record year.
We have continued to strengthen our top However, IAS 27 may require the group to management team and have made some consolidate private equity investments which it important organisational changes in order to manages on behalf of various funds where the increase the effectiveness of the component principal investors are institutional third parties.
If businesses within the division.
such consolidation is required the directors Stock markets generally rose in the year and this would also present a profit and loss account had a beneficial effect on funds under and balance sheet without such investments management FUM and income.
At the very which would help our stakeholders and readers end of the year we acquired Escher, a small of our financial statements to understand better successful manager-of-managers business the underlying financial performance and serving the pension fund industry, now renamed position of the group.
We plan to apply the skills within Other areas of impact which we have identified this business to expand our offering to other and taken into account include: segments of the savings industry.
Loan impairment reviews IAS 39 : Funds Under Management Restatement of income recognition policies bn IAS 18 and IAS 39 : 8 Valuation and accounting of derivative 7 instruments IAS 39 : 6 Goodwill impairment reviews IAS 36 and 5 IFRS 3 : 4 Later recognition of proposed or declared 3 dividends IAS 10 : and 2 Consolidation of the defined benefit pension 1 scheme IAS 19.
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 The first consolidated financial statements to reflect the adoption of IFRS by the company will We ended the year with 7.1 billion of FUM, up be the interim report for the six months ending 27 per cent.
on the previous year and showing 31st January, 2006.
This will include substantial increase since our acquisition of Rea comparative figures, adjusted where necessary Brothers Group in August 1999.
Of this years in accordance with IFRS, together with the 1.6 billion increase, approximately one-third required restatement of the balance sheet as at each came from Close TEAMS, market growth 31st July, 2005. and net new funds raised as illustrated below.
This was a creditable performance in a year OPERATIONAL REVIEW when no private equity fund was launched.
2004 2005 Investment Banking bn bn Our investment banking activity had another New funds raised 1.5 1.2 successful year building upon the forward Withdrawals, maturities & momentum of 2004.
Profit increased by 19 per realisations 0.7 0.8 cent.
to 77.6 million, on top of last years aaaaaadfaaaaa aaaaaadfaaaaa increase of 77 per cent.
Market-making had a Net new funds 0.8 0.4 steady year, given two dull periods in the stock Market effect 0.1 0.6 market, but finished on a high note as investor Acquisition 0.9 0.6 confidence returned.
Total at start of year 3.7 5.5 aaaaaadfaaaaa aaaaaadfaaaaa Total at end of year 5.5 7.1 dddaaad dddaaad 8 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Private Clients 2.7 billion Corporate Finance The integration of Nelson and Close Wealth We further built on last years strong Management has gone well and the opportunity performance with operating income up 18 per to extract value whilst improving the client cent.
Profit before tax was 10.1 proposition has provided a useful component of million and, whilst up only 3 per cent.
as this years profit increase.
The enlarged reported, was some 17 per cent.
higher ignoring business, now based in the North West, a bad debt write-back last year.
Firm progress in continues to attract new funds.
the UK was supported by improved performances in each of our European centres.
Our offshore British Isles businesses have seen the benefit of the integrated management Our M&A group advised on 169 mandates structure that was introduced last year under the across Europe, a 15 per cent.
As well as Close Private Bank banner.
This resulted in an corporates, we also advised numerous private improvement in income and the redeployment of equity groups in what has been a private equity resources from back to front office as we driven M&A market.
Notable transactions this strengthened our client offering.
year included advising on the sale of Tootsies Restaurants to Urban Dining: 3is merger of Funds 4.4 billion Shearings and Wallace Arnold to create Our collective funds business made good Europes largest coach holidays business: and progress during the year, with two of our key the sale of iTouch, Europes principal mobile investment trusts increasing in size, the Finsbury content provider, to For.
Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust and the Finsbury Growth & Income Trust, and substantial growth in Corporate Finance Practice Areas our Enhanced Gilt Fund.
The addition to this 2004 figures in brackets business of the award-winning Close TEAMS Restructuring service further strengthens its offering and growth 25% 32% potential.
Our technology funds business was given impetus by increased marketing resource.
Mergers & Acquisitions The momentum in our property investment 65% 55% business has continued, with an increase in Debt FUM of over 25 per cent.
A deliberate shift in Advisory 10% 13% the structure of our property funds has increased the proportion of on-going management fees compared to fund formation fees resulting in a higher quality of earnings.
Our reputation as a top-performing venture capital Our restructuring group was recognised as trust manager allowed us to attract a high share Europes leading adviser, collecting awards for of the new funds coming into this market.
adviser of the year from the highly regarded OLIM again produced record profits and industry publications, Acquisitions Monthly and expanded its top executive team.
Close Fund International Financing Review.
In the past Management had a record year, successfully twelve months we advised on 30 deals involving launching a protected commodities fund and a $100 billion of debt, including British Energy, geared European fund with protection.
It also Eurotunnel and Parmalat.
raised a second guaranteed hedge fund with Our debt advisory team had a busy year, Man Group.
The Escalator range of funds reflecting the highly liquid debt markets.
It continued to perform well.
also saw increased demand for its services Private equity enjoyed a record year, based in across Europe.
It completed 12 deals and part upon attractive realisations which provided advised on debt facilities totalling nearly some gains both for our clients and ourselves, 2.5 billion.
Notable clients included Alliance particularly in the first half.
Our 20 year track Medical and Regent Inns.
record of investment performance provides a robust business platform.
In order to strengthen and harmonise the Close Brothers name across Europe, we implemented In the Cayman Islands we achieved another a rebranding.
Germany and France adopted the noticeable year of firm progress bolstered by the Close Brothers name and all other offices in our acquisition of a small trust administration network adopted similar brand characteristics, business.
Our Guernsey based fund service to reflect both the strength of the network and provider had an excellent year on the back of also its ability to service clients internationally.
fresh client wins and the success of our clients themselves in attracting new funds.
We start the new financial year with an With markets remaining confident, we have encouraging pipeline.
made a bright start to our new financial year.
9 Close Brothers CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Market-Making Our new financial period has got off to a solid After two years of strong growth, the profit of start, significantly better than the same period this division, at 35.7 million, was marginally last year.
lower than last years 37.9 million.
In the UK our business started on a quiet note and we Banking also encountered a dull patch in the spring of Our banking activity consists of our specialist 2005.
However, in the latter months of the financing and asset financing divisions together period, and into the new financial year, activity with our central treasury.
The profit for this has picked up markedly.
activity grew by 2 per cent.
to 71.1 million and the loan book, including securitised receivables Our electronic engine Winner continues to and loans in run off, rose to a new high of 1.95 develop both in terms of richness of functionality billion, up 11 per cent.
Customer deposits grew and of client reach.
We have maintained our 8 per cent.
to 1.82 billion, also a new high.
lead in services to the retail market place and have increased business with our UK and overseas institutional clients.
Group Loan Book m 2,000 Our trading in blue chip stocks traded on the LSEs SETS platform has increased by over 48 1,800 per cent.
in terms of value, as a wider range of clients take advantage of our execution expertise 1,600 in this area.
The LSE expanded its SETSmm platform to include the Small Cap Index in July 1,400 2005.
WINS is the only market-maker to have registered in all such stocks and it continues to 1,200 be a leading liquidity provider in this market segment.
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2005 saw the tenth anniversary of the AIM market, which continued to experience 2005 was a year in which the benefits of our significant growth, with some 500 issues raising diversified model were well demonstrated, 3.8 billion during our financial year.
We are a as overall growth was maintained despite leading market-maker in AIM stocks and we insurance premium deflation and the burden of have benefited from an AIM market index which regulatory change in several of our businesses.
Bad Debt Charge as a Our investment trust team made significant progress this year, securing a prominent market Percentage of the Loan Book position in its secondary and primary markets.
The corporate and broking contribution, in 2.0% terms both of the range of transactions, which included three significant equity-based issues, 1.6% and also of client coverage, with over 45 corporate broking engagements, improved 1.2% markedly.
We continue to monitor EU regulatory 0.8% developments and to plan for their impact.
In particular, the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive may have a significant impact on the 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 entire financial services industry when implemented.
Several activities grew healthily, and the further During the year we initiated two significant reduction in bad debts was particularly pleasing, developments for the future.
We acquired a with the charge for the year as a percentage of securities trading business in Germany, now our average loan book falling from 1.4 per cent.
named Close Brothers Seydler, having invested last year to 1.1 per cent.
The pre-tax operating alongside its management.
This business has a returns on operating income and opening net number of leading specialist segments of the assets were maintained at 38 per cent.
and Frankfurt Stock Exchange and is performing 31 per cent.
respectively and underline the well.
We also supported the OFEX market, both quality and spread of our diverse banking by participation in their fundraising and by operations.
commencement of market-making in the whole of this market.
10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Asset Financing Specialist Financing Our asset financing division had another Our property finance business saw another year satisfactory year with the loan book exceeding of good growth.
Despite a more difficult housing 1.2 billion for the first time.
Underlying loan market, the loan book increased by 17 per cent.
book growth was in line with inflation and our to 177 million and there were no material nonbusiness was boosted by two acquisitions performing loans at the year end.
Our residential which added 157 million to the book at the developer borrowers appreciate our specialised year end.
and consistent attitude to lending in this area.
During the year considerable effort has been Our insurance premium financing business had required to ensure that our businesses comply a challenging year with insurance premiums with new FSA regulations relating to the sale of falling on average by some 10 per cent.
general insurance products introduced from the This had a direct impact on the size of its loan beginning of 2005.
The transition was managed book, which by its nature is short term, and successfully and the focus has now moved to therefore on its income.
However, this was the significant changes to the Consumer Credit mitigated to some extent by an increase of Act and the introduction of IFRS.
in the number of cases handled.
The number of loans financed during Our commercial asset financing business made the year exceeded 500,000 for the first time, good progress and saw improved growth in the and 5 million direct debit payments were financing of plant and machinery and of processed, yet costs barely grew.
Whilst the new print cyclical business and premium financing remains market remained tough throughout the year, this an area in which we see good long term growth area represented less than 10 per cent.
However, in the short term we expect new lending in our commercial asset finance premium deflation to continue.
We supplemented our organic development with the acquisition of a company Our three credit management operations had an based in Hull, now named Kingston Asset exciting year with aggregate profit growing by 25 Finance.
Our UK debt factoring and invoice discounting company increased its loan book by Our motor finance business built on its recent 22 per cent.
This was the first achievements with the acquisition of a significant full year under new senior management, which portfolio of motor loans.
The motorcycle and has streamlined our operations and refocused light commercial vehicle markets remained our marketing.
This resulted in an improved level buoyant during the year but the used car market of new business.
Our German debt factoring became quieter during the second half, dented business, which commenced trading only 18 by lower consumer confidence.
months ago, reached monthly profitability and will make a positive contribution in the year The year for our military services unit saw the ahead.
This is an exciting development and its UK armed forces continued commitment in Iraq continued success will encourage us to look at and the consequent difficulties in communicating new specialist overseas ventures, provided we with customers.
Although it achieved modest can see the opportunity to build appropriate loan book growth we remain cautious about its margins.
Our credit management business, also future and have again reassessed the goodwill under new senior management, had an attributable to this business.
excellent year and made a significantly increased contribution.
Close Finance CI, operating in the domestic markets in Guernsey and Jersey, enjoyed Our mortgage broking business had a difficult another good year with the loan book growing year as the market reacted to the twin by 24 per cent.
Notwithstanding the limitations challenges of regulation and a slowing housing of scale of the island populations we still see a market.
Our response to regulation has been to number of opportunities for further growth.
establish ourselves as a quality principal network provider and our expectation is that there will be further consolidation in this sector from which we expect to benefit.
11 Close Brothers CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Treasury Our treasury and funding operation had an excellent year.
In the first half we obtained a strong new credit rating from Moodys which, together with our existing rating from Fitch, assisted us in establishing a new medium term note programme.
This was well received by the market and we raised 500 million of three year committed funding mainly from new continental lenders.
This programme will enable us to raise finance from a deep and liquid market more easily in future.
Our customer deposit base continued to expand during the year and in particular we raised a growing amount of longer term deposits.
We also diversified our investments in the money market with the purchase of a portfolio of high quality liquid floating rate notes.
Summary Our solid and resilient banking activity had a year of low overall growth though this masked markedly different performances in its diversified businesses.
Corporate finance and marketmaking both had a good year and have made a promising start to the new financial year.
The benefits of our strategic focus on asset management are now showing through and there remains much to play for in this area.
Overall we remain in fine fettle.
C. D. Keogh Chief Executive 12
