08 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 operational 2,000 further lower review prices in the year We have been working to put the chemists Boots The Chemists Boots has taken enormous strides back in Boots a recognition that healthcare Sales m 4,651.1 Increase % 3.8 has always been at the heart of our business forward in the past 12 months.
We have profit m before exceptionals 470.0 and will continue to be.
It has not all been Decrease % 11.8 been talking about change for more than straightforward.
The changes have been Sales split m made as the trading environment has Health 1,862.5 two years now.
But the progress made in Beauty & Toiletries 2,054.7 worsened and our sales line did not perform Lifestyle 733.9 2004 05 has really moved the business as well as we hoped in the last quarter of the year.
But nothing that has happened on.
We have, among other things, cut has knocked our faith in our strategy.
We Strategy We have developed a very clear are building a platform for a better Boots: strategy for Boots The Chemists.
Central prices on a further 2,000 lines by about one that is true to its heritage, a company to the strategy and its success is our 14%, changed opening hours, put more trusted by successive generations because healthcare offer.
Because this is the it is the health and beauty expert.
thread that ties all our stores together: big stores in places where customers want or small, urban or rural, central or edge-ofBoots The Chemists town.
We have 1,400 stores and in nearly to shop and relaunched key lines.
We Boots The Chemists BTC made real every store there is a pharmacist able to progress this year.
Customers responded to have re-engineered our supply chain, offer guidance and expertise on healthcare 2,000 lower prices that over two years mean matters.
Healthcare is a growing market as rebuilt our IT systems and shut a 3,300 lines are on average 18% lower.
Sales the population ages and the need to make grew throughout the first half and, although health provision easier and more convenient major manufacturing plant.
the second half was below our initial means the role of the pharmacist is expectations largely due to the consumer increasing in our everyday lives.
downturn that hit retailers across the high Of course, beauty and toiletries will continue street we still enjoyed our third successful to be key markets.
Our expertise in beauty Christmas in a row.
Overall, we were and our growing number of beauty halls has encouraged by a year in which we took delivered market share growth.
In toiletries, further important steps on our journey.
the most competitive area and where our rivals are strongest and pushing hardest, we have competed well and held market share.
Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 09 3.8% 6.1% increase in best dispensing BTC sales performance in five years These are encouraging trends and give us Being competitive on price is vital.
We have as a small increase in the average spend of confidence that all our efforts are being lowered prices and will continue to offer our customers.
We will appreciated by the customer.
offer people fair prices on everyday lines, offer strong promotions on a rolling basis Next, our stores.
We are making them Finally, we will continue to improve our and bolster our customers perception of look better: we are opening more stores, ranges.
We will develop new products that our value with the Advantage Card.
particularly edge-of-town, we are improving make people feel that shopping at Boots our record on availability and we are is an exciting as well as a necessary thing.
This comes alongside attempts to ensure investing in our people.
Key here is a fresh We will improve and update ranges where that we offer customers a range of price focus on improving our already excellent they need it.
points to suit all purses.
We are offering level of expert customer care.
That is one our customers goods that they can easily Trading Overall, BTC sales rose by 3.8% of the things which gives Boots a major differentiate as being good, better and over the year.
On a like-for-like basis, the competitive advantage, we are one of best so they can pick the goods that suit underlying measure which strips out the the few stores where people expect them in each product category.
Everyone effects of changes to the selling space, and receive expertise.
these days wants value but they want to sales were 2.4% higher.
Over the crucial be able to choose it when it suits them.
It is For example, changes to the healthcare Christmas period sales grew by 4.2%, on common to see customers putting top-ofsystem means that Boots can now offer top of increases of 5.1% and 8.1% in the the-range products from one product area a comprehensive, integrated approach to two previous years.
Our healthcare business in their baskets alongside something from lifestyle health issues such as stopping enjoyed a sales increase of 5.0% with our Basics range.
Already in its first year, smoking and losing weight.
One of our dispensing up 6.1% our best performance the Basics range has attracted 250,000 stores in Birmingham recently helped since 2000.
Beauty and toiletries were up new toiletry customers to Boots.
1,000 people start on the journey to give up 2.9% and 0.1% respectively.
smoking with a series of classes that look Our stores It has been a major year in Prices Youll Love Our focus on cutting at the problems they face in a rounded way.
We opened more prices for consumers has meant an overall Those who want to lose weight can sign stores on average nearly one a week reduction of more than 200m.
This up for a course offering expert health and than we have done in a decade.
The main commitment to offering better value advice and an effective weight loss medicine focus here has been on boosting our has started to show results.
We are still in along with discounts on our Shapers food presence on edge-of-town retail parks.
the early stages, but in the year we saw ranges and exercise equipment.
growing numbers of transactions as well 10 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 operational review 1,000 stores now with Smartscript IT system At the same time we have been looking system and changed space where suitable We also started to tailor our direct mailings closely at the type of stores we open.
to make sure the right goods are being more than ever before.
Towards the end of Much of our thinking came together with displayed in the most appropriate way.
the year we sent out our most personalised the opening of our 20,000 sq ft store on the mailing yet.
We used card data to work out We have worked hard on improving store outskirts of Glasgow.
We have also worked which of our shops our customers used and navigation, with better signage, so customers on opening new stores as cheaply as which goods they bought most often and can nd their way around quickly and easily.
For example, our new store sent them coupons we thought they were opening on the edge of Merthyr Tydl was In April we announced plans to sell 300 most likely to use based on their spending developed to run on much lower operating of our smaller stores and lease them back.
costs and is already operating above its This does not mean we are not committed Health Our core pharmacy business had its original sales plan.
to these stores quite the reverse.
Small best year for five years, with our dispensing local stores will continue to be an essential And just opened is a premier store for business issuing 94 million items.
That part of the Boots offer.
Our portfolio in London has not means that every second we dispensed nine arrangements are common in retail and the been what it should be for some time, with items from our pharmacies.
The business is money that we raise, expected to be in the so many small stores and this is what growing in line with the market, for the first region of 250m, will be used to pay down many of the key opinion formers who time in five years.
But in a growing and short-term borrowings.
comment on our business see on a day-tochanging market there is much more to day basis.
But our new store, in the middle Advantage Card We have been working go for and as we have said, health is of Oxford Street with four oors of selling hard to ensure that more people appreciate the very heart of Boots.
space, represents the very best of modern the excellent value offered by the Advantage Over the past year we opened 80 new Boots.
Our London corporate ofces will also Card.
We are also working hard on using the pharmacies and over 1,000 of our stores be moved there so we will be living right information we get from the card to drive now have the Smartscript information above the shop.
We have also extended and sales.
The importance of the card is obvious.
technology system to aid customer choice retted our store in High Street Kensington Cardholders visit stores more often than and put us in a strong position for the future as we right our portfolio in London.
Already customers without a card and spend changes to the way in which prescriptions sales in this store are up over 20%.
We already have 14 million active will be dispensed from GPs surgeries.
cardholders but that still leaves many of We have also been designing new ways to Among other highlights was our growth in our regular customers without one.
Through get the best out of our current stores.
We the Prescription Collection Service PCS the year we have added one million new have adopted a new space management where we pick up prescriptions from cardholders.
Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 11 750,000 94m customers signed up items dispensed to the Prescription in Boots pharmacies Collection Service in the year o doctors for patients and have their February saw the relaunch of N 7 our The performance in baby was largely driven medicines ready and waiting when they biggest own brand and the nations leading by our ongoing expansion of the category visit stores which enjoyed a 17% increase.
cosmetic range in an overnight operation.
into clothing, toys and everyday items.
We We now have almost 750,000 people signed More than 60% of the product underwent continue to offer customers the broadest up.
That represents over a quarter of our new formulation, to ensure it was delivering range of baby food and specialist milks, customer base.
On the Monitored Dosage even greater benets to our customers.
one of the widest range of small baby System MDS, under which we provide accessories and exclusive clothing through In toiletries, one of the most competitive pre-packaged drugs for safe and easy our mini mode and Molly and Jack ranges.
areas we operate in, growth was up 0.1% as use by care homes, we have seen huge We are also the biggest retailer of the a result of price deation.
But encouragingly success with growth of 12%.
OskKosh kids clothing brand in the UK.
market share was held as we worked on Crucially, we offer our customers own Beauty and toiletries Beauty continues to rening our promotions and giving greater brands with real choice and a real be a growth market and the investment in authority to our ranges.
On promotions, differential: skincare products that have the year in new beauty halls was rewarded we decided it was important to have fewer, been  and toys that with a good performance in our cosmetic simpler offers: a move which our customers are tested to a level in excess of British and fragrance category where growth of seemed to appreciate.
We continue to have the innovation included the successful relaunch widest range of cosmetics in the UK as well of the Soltan skincare ranges which restored Our food ranges have been completely as the biggest range of fragrance and more the product to the number one slot in the revamped over the last 18 months and this beauty consultants than any other retailer.
market and the new Hackett products.
year we have sold more than 40 million We ensured that where possible we got sandwiches and salads to our customers.
The year saw the introduction of new-style exclusive deals on the launches of other First, our relaunch of the Shapers range fragrance display cabinets in 178 stores, peoples products, for example, the Mach3 helped re-establish the brand as a healthy these not only improved the merchandising Power razor.
We have not stopped there and of the product and their sales, but also new lines such as salads, smoothies and helped to reduce theft in stores.
This was in Lifestyle This category continues to benefit dried fruit and nuts have been added.
We addition to the 72 new premium accounts from a renewed focus on our baby and also relaunched our remaining food ranges opened, the 24 beauty halls we refurbished food offering.
under the Delicious label, incorporating and the 198 stores that got new selfguidance from the Government regarding selection cosmetic xtures.
daily salt, fat and calories content.
We are committed to helping the customer eat 12 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 operational review 87.8m profit delivered by BHI more healthily, while not compromising on of improvement in productivity across the Premium beauty products have continued to taste.
We also relaunched our meal deal to services, there was little prospect of the sell well online, with boots.
com one of the offer the best combination of value and businesses making acceptable returns few ofcial online stockists of the full ranges choice on the high street.
for the group going forward.
of brands such as Estee Lauder, Clinique, Chanel and Clarins.
Gifts had another year In photography, we continued the process Boots Opticians of strong sales with new areas such as toys of shifting more towards digital cameras and It continued to be a tough year for our and outdoor gifts performing particularly processing as the traditional photo market opticians business as we have continued well.
We also had excellent sales growth declined further.
We expanded our digital the process of integrating it back into the in extended online ranges in areas such as offer in larger stores to concentrate on core Boots The Chemists chain.
In spite home entertainment and photo, with webthat growing market and grew our range of selling more than one million pairs of only deals driving significant volumes.
to include the latest in phone camera glasses a year we continue to face increasing technology.
We were the first to install selfcompetition as well as lower consumer This year we will work to eliminate the service digital kiosks in our stores as we spending on fashion items.
We have operational constraints and continue to grow sought to ensure that we are at the forefront stepped up our game and begun to in confidence that boots.
com represents an of offering customers the opportunity to compete more on value and range as well area of strong potential for future growth.
take advantage of the technological as continuing to focus on the quality of our Boots Healthcare International advances in this growing area.
offer and the expertise that we provide.
BHI has enjoyed further success reporting But not everyone has gone digital yet, and its third record year of organic growth by Opticians Boots will continue within the traditional delivering sales and profits above plan.
The Sales m 182.5 Decrease % 8.6 photography arena.
We took market share business is now entering the final phase of Operating profit m before exceptionals 4.2 in traditional processing in every month a four-year plan and is in great health.
Decrease % 67.4 since July and over the year sold 16 million Boots Healthcare International rolls of lm.
com Sales m 522.7 Increase % 5.8 Services This year saw the final stage of Last year, boots.
com managed to deliver profit m before exceptionals 87.8 our gradual withdrawal from our services sales growth of more than 30%, despite Increase % 12.7 offering.
The exit from laser eye correction, some operational challenges, as we worked Core brand sales m Increase% dentistry, chiropody and laser hair removal to make the site easier to shop and our Nurofen 150.4 8.1 Clearasil 91.4 6.0 was part of the continuing focus on the back-shop more efficient.
Strepsils 91.0 9.3 business of Boots The Chemists.
In spite Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 13 400 BRI implants operating in nine countries Strategy BHI is aiming to become one of In skincare, sales of Clearasil rose by 6% Boots Retail International the top global players in the over the counter driven by the USA with new advertising, Our international operations carried on their healthcare market.
Over the past three the launch of Clearasil Ultra, the launch careful path towards taking Boots own-brand years, the business has become one of of a specialist male product line and products to consumers around the world the fastest growing consumer healthcare geographical expansion of the brand and began to make real progress towards the businesses in the world, through a focus in Spain, Italy, Mexico and Thailand.
goal of making such expansion profitable.
on rapid innovation and a must have Meanwhile, Strepsils enjoyed growth of 9.3%, Boots Retail International brand strategy.
with the new advertising featuring Mr Throat Sales m 48.3 Increase % 19.9 In April we announced plans to sell BHI proving very successful.
Geographically, Operating loss m before exceptionals 8.2 a move which will allow the management sales rose on the back of new product Decrease to loss % 28.2 and employees to tap into the resources developments in Europe and Asia.
of a dedicated owner committed to its Our dermocosmetics business, however, Strategy The core business model for longer-term development.
Overall, sales for Boots Retail International BRI is to offer Trading Sales in the past year continued to the year were down by 6.6%, sales of E45 consumers the chance to buy Boots ownbe driven by the core brands of Nurofen in in the UK were impacted by reductions in brand products and where possible replicate analgesics, Strepsils in cough and colds and government contracts for the product.
the Boots reputation for service by opening Clearasil in skincare.
Total sales increased by Lutsine also declined in France, but did implants in stores run by other retailers.
We 5.8% to 522.7m, with profit up 12.7% to better in Spain and Portugal.
Our German now have more than 400 of these implants 87.8m.
Cash ow from operations rose business, Hermal International, saw a in nine countries as well as 77 stand-alone by 15.9% to 89.6m.
decline of 3.1% as a result of the German stores in Thailand.
healthcare reforms, despite our building In analgesics, an 8.1% growth in sales The products are taken from our most of market share.
o of Nurofen was driven by expansion in successful ranges such as N 7, Botanics Australia, New Zealand, Central Europe, Outlook BHI is on track to hit its target of and Mediterranean, and are offered to Russia, Italy, Spain and Ireland.
Growth was making 100m in annual profits by the end customers in a Boots-branded environment driven by increased support for the Nurofen of this year.
Managing the sales process and in host retailers stores.
Plus Strong Pain offer, the continued the concerns of our people will be an Trading Operating losses were down by expansion of Nurofen for Children and important part of the year.
But we remain 28% at comparable exchange rates on last the roll out of new products for migraine confident that the business is on the right year.
All countries, excluding our pilots in the and period pain.
path to succeed outside of the group.
14 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 operational review 90% re-employment achieved on closure of our Airdrie factory USA, are now profitable and we have grown continue to work towards delivering a better At the same time, the move of production sales by 20%, exceeding our projections.
We take seriously the task of doing to our other facilities went smoothly.
And o things the right way.
If trust is an important we had a successful relaunch of N 7, Outlook We are gaining confidence in the element of our brand for consumers, we the cosmetic product made there.
demand for Boots brand products around can only deliver that fully by being a good the world and are making good progress in A store-friendly supply chain Twelve employer.
That means supporting our our ability to meet that demand profitably.
months ago we knew we had a lot to do to people through change: helping them nd make sure that all our customers could nd Getting in shape new jobs, or preparing them for retirement.
the goods they wanted when they wanted We have continued to pursue our plan, We provide financial support, expert careers them.
Today we know we have made huge announced in 2002, to cut costs, with an advice and counselling on job opportunities.
To sum up our approach, we wanted intended target of saving 100m per annum.
As a result of these efforts, most of the to make sure that the deliveries to stores This year we have made more progress than redundancies were achieved voluntarily.
are what our customers are actually buying ever before as the full impact of changes Manufacturing We have faced huge change on a day-to-day basis not what head that have been in train for some time really in manufacturing with the closure of our ofce thought it might be.
We have totally started to take effect.
The decision made re-engineered the supply chain and are Over the past year we have implemented sound commercial sense, but we were now about 80% of the way through the our plan to remove 1,000 head ofce jobs keenly aware of the potential impact on the programme.
The remaining 20%, to be about one in three of our people there.
local community and were determined to do achieved this year, will be a focus on Under the old system there were too many everything in our power to minimise it.
Over making sure that the stores know how layers of management and too much a two-year closure period, which ended in to get the very best out of their systems duplication.
The organisation had become February, we worked in partnership with and ways of working.
too slow to react to todays fast-changing local authorities to bring new employment Purchasing As we continue to deliver lower retail environment.
Now jobs have gone opportunities to the area and to stimulate prices to our customers, our costs become from almost every department at every level.
Our partnership with ever more critical and in particular our spend Lanarkshire Council and Scottish Enterprise The challenge has been to make the with suppliers.
Over the past year we have Lanarkshire means that 90% re-employment changes as painless as possible for our put in place a Better Buying programme was achieved.
We continue to work in people.
And to ensure that those left are which has delivered more than 30m of partnership for the regeneration of Airdrie.
not demoralised by the process and can savings.
This has been achieved through Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 15 80% 14,000 of deliveries now new tills now operating under operating across store friendly all our stores supply chain a variety of means including more sourcing fulcrum around which the whole company from the Far East, electronic auctions and operates.
It drives replenishment through its a more structured approach to negotiating link into systems, so is key for availability.
Next year we plan to deliver It is crucial for transactional security.
You even more savings but always making sure cannot do chip and pin on a 20-year-old till that we remain true to the Boots way of system.
You cannot tailor your offer to your doing business, which means working customers if you do not have all the data on with our suppliers.
them that comes from tills.
Making IT easy We have been working for That was not the only change for stores.
some time now on bringing our information We also started the roll out of radio technology systems into the modern era.
frequency hand-held terminals to help The work that has been done is complex stock management in stores a modern and has taken a long time and there is system which helps reduce the level of more to do.
But it has started to make a stockholding and gives instant information real difference to our people.
First, we have on what goods are being held where.
been xing what we call our backbone Stores have also started to use the new the core suite of systems that supports MyStoreNet intranet site.
This is full of everything else.
This year we have been in useful information delivered on a daily the fourth phase of this.
Most of the final basis against the old method where implementation work was done over store managers got information up to weekends in order to ensure that the day-toa week later.
day business of Boots was not disrupted.
The major elements of the systems Perhaps the biggest programme this year architecture are now in place.
Going was the re-tilling with the completion of forwards we will see evolution rather than the project to put 14,000 new tills into our more revolutions and focus on driving stores.
In a modern retailer the till is the benets from investments already made.
absolute anchor of the business.
It is not just the place the money goes in, it is the
