Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operational Review Operational Review Turnover - Risk & Insurance JLT Risk Solutions 156.7m Latin America 17.0m Canada 15.9m USA 29.4m Lloyd & Partners 21.6m Asia 30.5m Agnew Higgins Pickering 16.4m Australia New Zealand 60.9m UK Ireland 46.9m 8 The Risk & Insurance group comprises the following Risk & Insurance operations.
JLTs Risk & Insurance group provides insurance and reinsurance broking and risk management services JLT Risk Solutions to clients worldwide across a broad range of In JLT Risk Solutions, turnover declined by 4% to business sectors.
Several businesses performed very well, including construction, credit & political and financial & The Risk & Insurance group employs over 3,800 people professional risks and the increasing focus on client and operates in more than 30 countries.
Our broking industries produced many new business wins in our operations encompass: telecommunications, life sciences and power areas.
London Market insurance and reinsurance.
We continued to invest in strengthening our expertise with over 50 partners and associates joining in 2005.
However, UK & Ireland corporate and specialist schemes and the combined negative effects of the competitive market, affinity businesses.
loss of earnings from Market or Placement Service Worldwide insurance and reinsurance services in Agreements PSAs, currency and a 12% reduction in our North & South America, Canada, Asia, Australasia reinsurance turnover, more than outweighed these and Europe.
The trading margin was 14%, or 17% at constant rates of exchange, compared to 22% in 2004.
During 2005, very competitive insurance market conditions continued in most areas and this, together with The challenging market conditions impacted our turnover increasing remuneration costs and fierce competition on in many of our business areas, particularly in aviation and fees and commissions, created a very challenging trading reinsurance.
The reduction in reinsurance turnover was environment.
The hurricanes of 2005 did have a also due in part to clients and insurers retaining more risk significant impact on the cost of insurance but this was at the lower end of their insurance programmes.
only in certain classes of insurance, particularly energy In Bermuda, reducing insurance rates was the principal and property catastrophe.
For virtually all other areas the reason why turnover reduced by 8% when compared effect on insurance rates was negligible.
However, our captive management operation in Against this difficult background, the Risk & Insurance Bermuda showed good growth in the year.
We disposed group turnover grew by 4% to 395.3 million with trading of our small Cayman Islands captive operation just before profit of 65.0 million compared to 87.7 million in 2004. the year end.
The trading margin was 16%, or 19% at constant rates of exchange, compared to 23% for 2004.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operational Review 9 In 2005 we made a number of high profile appointments During 2005, we continued the conversion of much of to our reinsurance team and on 1st January 2006 the our brokerage based turnover into fee-based Group established a new company, JLT Reinsurance remuneration in order to counter the effects of the Brokers Limited JLT Re.
This separate and dedicated competitive insurance market.
The specialist schemes reinsurance broking and consultancy operation is and affinity businesses again performed well.
These necessary to compete effectively in an increasingly schemes occupy attractive market positions and have sophisticated marketplace.
JLT Re has its own identity robust defensive characteristics whilst at the same time and management team to capitalise on the opportunities offering significant opportunities for growth.
Our UK retail insurance broking businesses operate in During 2006 we will, subject to the required regulatory two distinct areas: approval, merge our JLT Risk Solutions business with General corporate, providing a comprehensive service our UK and Ireland insurance broking business.
to a wide variety of mid-sized companies through a The benefits of this merger include the creation of a network of offices in the UK and Ireland.
unified Risk & Insurance business with common trading principles, common branding, and aligned marketing and Specialist schemes and affinity businesses offer sales efforts.
It is expected that these benefits will result services across diverse markets, ranging from local in increased new business opportunities and enhanced government and social housing to the leisure and services to new and existing clients.
The combined entity veterinary care industries.
will trade as Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited.
Most divisions in this business area performed well in 2005, although insurance rate reductions had a negative UK Retail Insurance Broking impact, particularly on our London Market, leisure, In the UK and Ireland, our corporate risks and specialist commercial risks and Irish operations, where income is schemes and affinity businesses achieved turnover of predominantly commission based.
In addition to the 46.9 million.
This represented a 1% increase over the challenging insurance markets, there is increasing previous year and was achieved despite the loss of competition on fees in the corporate arena as PSA income of 3.5 million and against the backdrop of competitors seek to retain or win new business.
These factors As previously mentioned in the review of JLT Risk overshadowed what was actually a strong performance in Solutions, it is intended to merge this UK retail business terms of new business wins, which totalled in excess of with our Risk Solutions operation.
The trading margin of 19%, slightly down in significant benefits for our clients and the business.
from 22% in 2004, was much improved from the 13% Subject to obtaining the necessary regulatory approval, achieved in the first half of 2005. it is intended to complete the reorganisation in 2006.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operational Review Operational Review 10 Australasia Asia In Australia and New Zealand we achieved good Asia's turnover increased by 2% to 30.5 million with a growth with turnover at 60.9 million, up 8% on the trading profit of 5.4 million producing a trading margin of previous year, 4% up at constant rates of exchange.
During the year the The trading margin of 26%, albeit down slightly from 28% Asian insurance and reinsurance markets saw rates in 2004, continues to reflect the strong management of reduce in all areas and this once again impacted turnover this business.
growth in the region, particularly given that much of our income is derived from commissions.
Notwithstanding The retail division, comprising natural resource and this, turnover did increase and we enjoyed strong new construction, corporate, affinity, professional & executive business growth in Hong Kong, Malaysia and Korea.
liability and the regional network, were all impacted by the In addition, our regional specialty lines successfully competitive insurance market conditions but despite this acquired major new clients in the financial & professional, many of our operations continued to grow their turnover construction and marine cargo sectors.
Our natural resources and construction operations had excellent new business In November, JLT submitted an application to form a new wins in the energy, services and construction sectors.
joint venture insurance and reinsurance broker in mainland China.
We are hopeful that this business will The risk services division continued its strong financial become licensed in 2006 and thus allow us to fully performance with the Echelon consultancy business establish a presence in this fast growing and important having considerable success with its core products marketplace.
The new operation, which will be majority of risk management and claims management.
owned by JLT, will focus on large commercial risks and Risk Services' key market segment of local government seek to serve both local and overseas clients.
again showed growth in 2005 and this remains a sector dominated by JLT.
For the fourth time in five years, JLT Asia won the award for Asia Broker of the Year.
An independent panel of New Zealand had another solid year and, with the judges commended JLT Asia's innovation in developing acquisition of Risk Solutions Ltd in 2005, we are new risk management and insurance tools and products well placed to further develop our presence in the along with the industry leading role the company took in corporate sector.
responding to the Asian Tsunami disaster.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operational Review 11 Canada United States In Canada turnover increased by 11% to 15.9 million, In America, our specialty business experienced strong or 5% at constant rates of exchange, while the trading growth with a 61% increase in turnover to 17.3 million margin fell from 17% in 2004 to 7% in 2005.
This was and an improvement in the trading margin loss from 21% due mainly to the costs associated with the expansion of to 15%.
In the life, accident & health business, turnover the business and the resultant brokerage development fell by 11% to 12.1 million due, almost entirely to the being much slower than anticipated.
loss of all PSA income which in 2004 was 1.2 million.
The trading margin was 38%, down from 47% in 2004.
The steps taken in 2005 to reposition our Canadian business should ensure that the trading margin returns to The focus for the USA business continues to be on historic levels.
turnover growth and cost control so that the business can continue its improvement and move into profit.
Overall in the USA, we anticipate a stable insurance market.
This is with the notable exception of the significant increases in premium rates seen in the energy sector as a direct consequence of the losses from the hurricanes in 2005.
Whilst our operations in the USA do in part trade in those sectors affected, we do not believe the rate increases seen will result in a significant overall increase in our turnover, given that virtually all of our income is based on fees rather than commission.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operational Review Operational Review 12 Latin America Lloyd & Partners JLTs presence in Latin America increased significantly In its first year's trading, Lloyd & Partners primary goal in late 2004 with the acquisition of insurance and was to consolidate and grow the predominantly USA reinsurance broking businesses in Colombia, Peru and focused portfolio of wholesale insurance broking business Mexico.
This has resulted in JLT holding a majority transferred from JLT Risk Solutions at 1st January 2005. shareholding in each business.
Lloyd & Partners completed its first year of operation These new operations, added to JLTs existing presence successfully with turnover of 21.6 million, down 2%, or in Brazil, provide JLT with a significant position in this up 7% at constant rates of exchange, against a notional large and important market.
The acquisitions have also prior year turnover.
A trading margin of 19% or 26% at created excellent wholesale opportunities for JLTs constant rates of exchange was achieved.
All business London and Bermudian operations.
classes including casualty & liability including power within the energy sector, healthcare & professional, The acquired businesses have been included in our property and cargo contributed positively to these results.
results on a full year basis for the first time.
In 2005 turnover for the region was 17.0 million and the trading There were significant new business wins from both margin was 18%.
Our operations in Mexico and Peru existing and newly developed independent retail sources performed well, however, the overall results for Latin in the USA aided by new opportunities that arose in the America were negatively impacted by lower than post-Spitzer environment.
anticipated earnings from our Colombian business, Market conditions following the 2005 hurricanes but this was largely offset by a greater than expected provided challenges as well as opportunities in the flow of business to our London operations.
second half of the year, especially in the energy and property catastrophe areas.
As insurance capacity to write windstorm risks contracted, insurance buyers were forced to reassess their appetite for the transfer and retention of risk.
Throughout the year, Lloyd & Partners was able to attract new senior market practitioners in all classes of business.
This expansion, coupled with market conditions, means Lloyd & Partners are well placed to grow the business further in 2006.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operational Review 13 Agnew Higgins Pickering Continental Europe Agnew Higgins Pickering, which had a difficult first half JLT's associate, SIACI, is a leading French broker with year, recovered considerably in the second half to offices in Spain, Italy, Switzerland, Belgium and Poland.
achieve turnover of 16.4 million in 2005 compared to It contributed 2.5 million to Group profits in 2005, an 17.3 million in 2004.
The trading margin at 20%, or 23% increase of 10% over 2004, reflecting a good year.
at constant rates of exchange, was a reduction compared Whilst the current competitive trading environment is very to the 27% achieved in 2004.
The strong second half evident in Europe, SIACI nevertheless continues to be performance was achieved through a combination of new very successful in competing for and winning new business wins and increased business from existing business from other brokers.
This is highlighted by clients.
The ability of Agnew Higgins to consolidate and success in winning major new clients including Galeries expand relationships with existing clients is one of its core Lafayette, Pomona, Inergy, Saur and Compagnie des Alpes.
This business continues to fulfil a largely traditional London wholesale role, with the exception of the significant position it enjoys in the UK oil and gas sector.
The strategy remains for the company to specialise in the natural resource industry sector where it is now an established market leader.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operational Review Operational Review Turnover - Employee Benefits USA 17.1m UK Ireland 70.6m 14 In the UK and Ireland, our Employee Benefits turnover Employee Benefits increased 19% to 70.6 million.
Excluding the full year Turnover for the combined Employee Benefits group effect of the Profund acquisition, turnover increased 10%.
increased by 6% to 87.7 million against 82.9 million The trading margin at 16% increased from 14% in 2004 in 2004.
Trading profit was 13.5 million, an increase of and now exceeds the 15% margin that has been our 13%, producing a trading margin of 15%.
stated target since the formation of the UK Employee The Employee Benefits group has operations in both the Benefits group in 2001.
UK and the USA and employs more than 1,200 people.
The principal focus in 2005 was to reinforce our presence The UK business had another successful year with strong in those areas of the UK Employee Benefits market where growth in turnover and profitability and the business we rank amongst the market leaders, including exceeded our long-term margin goal of 15% for the first outsourced pensions administration and advice.
In the USA we continued to reposition the business Whilst we have particular expertise in the provision of a and this included the sale of a substantial trading division full suite of services to mid-sized schemes, we continue that was no longer central to the future of the business.
to expand our position at the larger end of the market.
This entails the provision of administration and other UK Employee Benefits services to very large individual schemes and as a Today JLT has a successful and growing position in the specialist service provider of 'outsourced services to life UK and Ireland employee benefits marketplace that assurers in relation to their occupational pension offerings.
encompasses consulting and scheme administration services together with in house software development During 2005 we won substantial new business from and implementation capabilities.
Following the successful Royal & SunAlliance and Scottish Life and we also integration of Profund, a leading pensions software house undertook the administration of Invescos book of acquired in August 2004, JLT is now able to provide a corporate individual money purchase schemes, an virtually unique range of products and services for: important development for us, representing JLT's first move into the Fund Management sector.
Occupational pension schemes actuarial consulting Profunds business flourished increasingly as the year scheme administration progressed.
Its authoritative position in the software and related services market has reinforced our already high Life assurance companies standing in the marketplace.
Profund's systems servicing actuarial services and third party administration and development capability has added to the portfolio of Corporates services we can provide and also enabled JLT to offer a truly integrated solution to clients.
a range of employee benefit products and services from healthcare to SIPPs.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operational Review 15 Our expertise in handling the winding up of pensions United States schemes is proving particularly relevant in the current The Employee Benefits business in the USA produced environment, as are our capabilities in relation to the turnover of 17.1 million in 2005, a reduction of 28% pension schemes of insolvent companies.
The trading margin fell from 15% trustee business, Independent Trustee Services Limited, in 2004 to 12%.
secured a number of important and high profile The reduction in both turnover and profit primarily appointments during 2005. reflected the continuing repositioning of the business Occupational pension schemes and, in particular, in 2005. defined benefit schemes, are becoming increasingly less A significant trading division was sold during the year and a part of corporate employee benefits strategies.
a restructuring and downsizing programme was effected However, whilst the future importance of these schemes within another trading division.
reduce in the eyes of many employers, they will nevertheless continue to generate demands for our The divested business was not a core activity for JLT services for many years to come.
JLT continues to focus and its disposal forms part of a longer-term programme on growing its product and service offerings and is now to reposition our activities within the third party actively promoting its capability as an adviser in addition administration and affinity marketing sector in the USA.
to its more traditional services.
These new capabilities, many of which are associated with more contemporary benefits structures, are continuing to grow and this bodes well for the future.
During 2005, the business also devoted substantial resources to ensuring that it is well placed to respond to changes brought about by the Pensions Act and other relevant new legislation in the UK.
These changes are now generating considerable demand from clients for consultancy services and modifications to administration processes and systems.
