qxd 31 3 06 2:57 am Page 5 LEGAL & GENERAL TODAY General Insurance Quality of service, scale and integrationn 1 million UK households Over 15 million Legal & General provides private healthcare for over paid out in claims 100,000 each month individuals 117,000 customers contact 85% Legal & General of customers each month, renew 1 each year 80% are highly satisfied with claims experience c e t o r P 1 Legal & General branded direct household customers 10569 shortsection.
qxd 31 3 06 2:57 am Page 6 LEGAL & GENERAL TODAY Investment Management Growth in funds under management: Growth in Index Funds consistent new business success 138bn 150 1bn 120 in new funds on average per month for the 90 past 7 years.
Currently 208bn 60 funds managed worldwide 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Larger pooled pension funds than our UK Equity Holdings competitors provide economies of scale: 3.8% of FTSE All-Share 10bn US 70 40bn UK 60 4bn 10bn 50 Japan Europe 40 Size of funds mean we can absorb many portfolios without needing to trade 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 The size of our client base enables us to match demand for investing and disinvesting so that clients minimise dealing costs.
bn Funds under management bn 10569 shortsection.
qxd 31 3 06 2:57 am Page 7 Scale, simplicity and solutions for clients Over 2,800 of new business from 50% clients including existing clients large, medium evidence of the quality and smaller of our product and the businesses.
Growth in New Business 20 15 10 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Largest fund manager Manage pension assets for over in the UK 50% of the FTSE 100 Over 145bn managed for external clients Diversified nature of client base bn 10569 shortsection.
qxd 31 3 06 2:57 am Page 8 2005 Awards GENERAL Life Insurer of the Year British Insurance Awards seventh time in eight years Britains Most Admired Insurance Company Management Today seventh time in eight years Life Assurance Company of the Year Financial Adviser Awards Best Life Insurer in the Netherlands Three major Dutch IFA associations LIFE AND PENSIONS Term Assurance Company of the Year Financial Adviser Awards Life and Pensions Protection Provider of the Year Financial Adviser Awards Best Group Critical Illness Insurance Provider Cover Excellence Awards Best Group Life Insurance Provider Cover Excellence Awards The Technology Award British Insurance Awards INVESTMENTS Defined Contribution Investment Professional Pensions Provider of the Year For more information visit: www.
qxd 31 3 06 2:53 am Page 1 egal & General made excellent CHAIRMANS STATEMENT progress during 2005 across almost all areas of its business.
With very In 2005, Legal & General strong growth in the UK, our new life, pensions and retail investments achieved both record Lpremium income on an Annual new business and record Premium Equivalent APE basis exceeded profits.
Our total UK market 1bn for the first time in our history.
At the same time, our total UK market share share for the year for the year broke through the 10% level.
exceeded 10% for the Legal & General Investment Management also saw strong new business ows, consolidating first time.
These are the its position as the leading manager of UK achievements of a strong pension funds.
Good margin and profit performance have gone hand in hand with this excellent growth.
On the European Embedded Value EEV basis, operating profit grew to a record 1,092m, whilst pre-tax profit exceeded the 2bn milestone.
A new operating profit record was also achieved on the International Financial Reporting Standards basis IFRS.
At the same time as achieving these record profits, we have been investing carefully to enhance our capabilities for the future.
In summary, Legal & General has delivered results which have once again outperformed the market.
In my judgement, your Company possesses the attributes, the business model and the management team to continue to do so.
Ten Year Total Shareholder Return % Our core UK protection and savings businesses achieved further market share 192 growth in 2005.
For the full year, our total 126 UK market share reached 10.4%, making 107 Legal & General the third largest life insurer in the UK.
A decade ago, in 1995, Legal & General FTSE Life Assurance Sector we were ranked eighth in the industry FTSE 100 and our market share was just over 4%.
qxd 31 3 06 2:53 am Page 2 Chairmans statement This remarkable organic growth performance that your dividend be increased once more.
has been matched by increased profits.
Your In July, we decided to increase the interim Companys market position gives us the scale dividend by 2.5%.
We are now recommending and the efficiency to generate profits whilst an increase in the final dividend of 5.2%, offering customers good value products and making a full year increase of 4.3%.
The Boards dividend recommendation Our investment management business, was made after reviewing the Companys led ably for the last four years by your financial strength and taking into account new Group Chief Executive, Tim Breedon, the capital required to support continued continues to go from strength to strength.
In my first statement to you as Chairman, In 2005, our Total Shareholder I commented that, while it had taken 160 Return TSR was 16%, but below that of years for Legal & Generals funds under the FTSE 100.
The ten year TSR information, management to reach 50bn, we had available on page 1, and the five year achieved the next 50bn in only three years.
information, on page 37, show our relative Six years after that first statement, I am very longer term performance.
pleased to be able to tell you that funds Customer Focus under management now exceed 200bn.
Legal & General today has over five million This is a remarkable performance of policyholders in the UK and over half a which we can be justly proud.
Meeting our customers operating profit of this business on an IFRS needs is at the heart of our business so, basis rose by over 40%, reflecting both however good our customer care may be, the strength of our business model and we are always striving to improve it.
As our focus on effective cost management.
everywhere, our customers expectations Although our index-tracking capabilities are rising steadily, and our competitors are continue to be the main driver of our always seeking to raise their game.
Our own success, our active management business Customer Experience Programme is now in also made good progress during the year.
its second year and already the benets for Our general insurance business, which both our customers and our business are is focused mostly upon household insurance becoming apparent.
The priority given to this products, was adversely affected by various aspect of our activities will continue.
We have weather incidents which occurred during the recently signed up to the initiative launched first half of the year.
Premiums grew during by the Association of British Insurers the year, after allowing for the profitable ABI The Customer Experience Package.
disposal, in March 2005, of Gresham Our decision to do so demonstrates our Insurance Company Limited.
commitment to provide our customers with In the United States of America USA, the levels of care and service they want and our business saw a drop in both premium are entitled to expect, both before and after volumes and profits in 2005.
competitive environment restricted our ability Regulatory and Tax Environments to attract the quantity of business we seek The result of the case between through our existing distribution network.
Legal & General and the Financial Services Steps to expand that distribution are under Authority FSA heard before the Financial way.
However, our European businesses have Services and Markets Tribunal was reported continued to perform strongly.
In France, in our Annual and Interim Reports issued in we saw good growth in both our group 2005.
As a company wholly committed to protection and individual savings products, operating compliantly in the UK, we have with APE for the year up 27% and EEV been keen for many years to promote a operating profits up 200%.
Our business regulatory environment which is fair to both in the Netherlands also maintained strong customers and providers.
Winner for the fifth year running that the decision of the Tribunal in this case of the prestigious Best Life Insurer in the provided a catalyst to the FSA to improve Netherlands award, the Company saw the fairness of its enforcement process.
premiums grow by 26% and EEV We were disappointed that it was operating profit increase by over 40%.
necessary to make a Stock Exchange Dividend and Shareholder Return announcement in October 2005, advising that Your Boards confidence in the strength a completely unexpected change to the tax of Legal & Generals performance and basis of life assurance companies could have prospects underpins our recommendation a very significant impact on the Group.
There 2 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2005 10569 pp001-003.
qxd 31 3 06 2:53 am Page 3 had been no consultation on the proposal Legal & General successfully through many and its effect went way beyond what we difficult challenges and changing market believed was intended.
The Board thanks him, as I am bn made resulted in significant amendments sure do all shareholders, for his leadership and the proposals will now have no impact over such a successful period in your 1.1 on Legal & General.
We wish him a long EEV operating profit It is, I believe, vital to the interest and happy retirement.
of long term savings that the tax regime Tim Breedon, who succeeded Sir David applying to life assurance companies on 1 January 2006, is already showing the is both stable and equitable.
We are qualities of leadership and judgement which % encouraged that HM Treasury and HM your Board identied when we selected Revenue & Customs have now allocated him for the role last May.
Legal & General 10.4 resources to develop a better understanding Investment Management delivered Total UK market share between the Government and the industry remarkable results under his leadership and on taxation.
We are working actively, with your Board and I are absolutely confident these and other bodies, to ensure that this that he will achieve similarly impressive desirable outcome is realised.
results for the Group as a whole.
Barrie % Morgans will be stepping down as a Shareholder Communications Director at the Groups Annual General Shareholders will, I am sure, have noticed 5.2 Meeting in May 2006, having served on that this Annual Report is much longer than Growth in final dividend your Board for nine years.
This has been necessitated time, he has chaired the Audit Committee by changes required by both regulatory and diligently and effectively, sharing with us accounting bodies.
Not only has this caused his considerable wisdom and experience.
a delay in our reporting to you, but it has His contribution to your Companys affairs also resulted in a Report some 50% longer will be much missed.
Your Board believes that the additional Outlook information being made available about 2005 marked a third year of recovery our business will be of interest and value in UK equity values and 2006 has begun to some shareholders.
Others, however, well, with the FTSE 100 index moving may well find the extent and detail of ahead by over 5% in the first ten weeks.
information reported to be in excess of The UK economy continues to grow, as their requirements.
In future, therefore, a result of which we are confident that we will offer you the alternative of our marketplace will also see growth receiving a Summary Financial Statement, this year.
which will contain what we would regard Indeed, for Legal & General, the year as essential descriptive and financial has already begun well, with good new information.
The experience of other business growth in our core UK market.
large companies is that most shareholders, We have new executive leadership with the conscious of the environmental and cost focus, the energy and the determination to benets, are content to receive the Summary do what we do better than ever.
Accordingly, it is our a record year for Legal & General.
The start intention when we issue our Interim Report of 2006 has been encouraging.
Your Board in August to ask shareholders if they wish is confident that Legal & General has the to receive paper copies of the full Annual ability to outperform over the long term.
Shareholders who do not opt to do so will subsequently receive just the Summary Financial Statement.
This together with the full Annual Report will, of course, be available on the Groups website www.
Rob Margetts Chairman Board Changes Sir David Prosser, your Group Chief Executive for over 14 years, retired from the Board at the end of 2005.
His contribution to your Company was immense.
He displayed many outstanding talents in his long period of executive stewardship.
His understanding of our industry was remarkable and he steered www.
qxd 31 3 06 2:51 am Page 4 Tim Breedon became Legal & Generals We will continue to GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Group Chief Executive on 1 January 2006. grow because that is the He gave this interview for the Annual Report at the end of February.
dynamic of the market and of our position in it, Tim, you have been Group but our priority is profit.
Chief Executive for almost two months now.
With the benefit of that time in the role, how do you assess Q your inheritance?
The quick answer is very positively.
As shareholders will know, Legal & General has developed a very strong business model over the past decade.
I see my job, therefore, as building on some pretty solid foundations.
Changing some things, certainly, seeking improvements wherever we can nd them but, fundamentally, the business model we operate is working well and I dont intend to x it.
Does that mean that shareholders can expect to see Legal & General continuing to deliver the same rates of new business growth as were achieved in 2005?
The last few years have seen our two main UK businesses achieve remarkable growth.
This is what we said we wanted the Rights Issue money for in 2002 and the growth we have been able to achieve was made possible by the capital raised then.
However, no sensibly managed company grows for growths sake.
Legal & General will continue to grow because that is the dynamic of the market and of our position in it, but our priority is profit.
Achieving the scale we now have has been immensely important.
It gives us the opportunity to invest to become more Tim Breedon Group Chief Executive 10569 pp004-006.
qxd 31 3 06 2:51 am Page 5 efficient, to provide ever higher quality others.
As the demand grows, so its natural scale in both channels and that gives us a of service to customers and intermediaries and, frankly, desirable for additional level of exibility which few others in our and to respond quickly to new market capacity to come in to meet that demand.
Its another one of our opportunities.
But that isnt the same as As to how that might affect us, my great strengths in my view.
Polarisation saying that having even greater scale than strong sense is that our track record of was supposed to be a great threat to the we have now would give us signicantly expertise and quality service will be very industry.
Legal & General went in strong but greater profit benets.
We will grow, Im hard for newcomers to match.
Our plan is came out stronger and all the indications confident, but well be growing where we to continue to improve both our service are that that is exactly what is happening can meet our profit objectives not where delivery and our pricing precision.
That again as the market depolarises.
leads me rmly to believe that this market Q.
Four years ago, you were appointed Group will continue to allow us to write the volume Q.
Which then are the areas you believe Director Investments with responsibility for and type of business we want, on terms that offer the best prospects for Legal & General Legal & General Investment Management are attractive.
Since then funds under management A.
As you know, the large majority of our Q.
Though it is early days, are you happy with have grown from 114bn to 204bn, whilst 1 2 business comes from the UK and, to be the proportion of the Groups business you are operating profit has grown from 50m to 103m.
clear on this, thats where I think the best getting from each of your main product areas, Are there lessons from your experience of opportunities lie for us in the short term.
or are you intending to try to change that?
running LGIM so successfully which you hope I feel very positive about the outlook A.
The first point, of course, is that there is to apply in your new role?
for our business in the UK.
Transaction only a limited amount one company can A. LGIMs success is built on its very simple volumes in the housing market will, I think, do.
It is the market which determines which business model.
Its a doubly effective model grow following the soft landing.
Individuals products are going to be bought and which because its one which competitors would confidence in equity savings has been not.
And, as has often been said, you cant now nd very hard to replicate.
The model boosted over the last year and I believe it buck the market.
for the Group as a whole is, of course, not will continue to build.
Theres no sign of a In general terms though, one of the so simple but it mustnt be allowed to late 1990s type equity bubble, so I believe great strengths of Legal & General, I believe, become too complicated either.
individuals and institutions will continue to is the way in which our business is balanced Basically, there are three core invest in our equity products.
And pensions between the protection elements of our competences which have to be leadingsaving, of course, should be an area of business and the savings and investment edge right across the Group.
They are the enormous opportunity.
Im not going to risk strands.
We have a market leading position customer experience through the whole life predicting what the Governments White in each and have the scale, therefore, to be of the product, efficient systems supporting Paper on Pensions will say but this is an area an efficient provider.
But the important point scaleable businesses, and distribution of saving which has to grow and, on most is the exibility which this balance gives us management that is alert and responsive of the probable outcomes, this will generate to shift our business in line with opportunities to the changing dynamics of the market.
significant new business opportunities for and, of course, in line with the market.
At LGIM, I believe we reached high the insurance industry.
So, although Im not saying that Im in any standards in these areas.
We were leadingAll of which is not to say that there way unhappy with the relative size of the edge and we were rewarded by the arent also opportunities for us overseas.
different product areas, that proportion marketplace for being so.
Across the Group Weve got some well-positioned will change from time to time and yes, of as a whole, my judgement is that, whilst we international businesses already and were course, well manage those changes to are leading-edge in many product areas, not afraid to add to them.
We would have the benefit of our overall profit growth.
It is my challenge and to be confident of a close t with our my intention to ensure that we become so.
What about the mix of your distribution in the business approach and of delivering a UK?
The proportion of your sales derived from Q.
If that is your goal, how do you intend to good return on capital.
Those will be tough IFAs has grown signicantly in recent years.
Is it a question of trying to change criteria to meet, but we are certainly not that a trend you want to see continue or do you Legal & Generals culture and, if so, how do against overseas expansion in principle, want to boost the proportion coming from your you intend to do that?
be it organic, or otherwise.
No, Legal & Generals culture is one of Q.
In describing why you believe the UK is such A.
As I said just now, the fundamental driver our strengths so it is not a question of trying a good market for Legal & General, you didnt for what portion we get from where, is the to change our culture but rather of trying mention annuities.
Thats a very important sector market.
2005 saw the housing market, where to embed it more rmly.
How do you see the market many of our Business Partners are active, The word challenge is one I use often.
developing and how concerned are you at slow.
The result for us was a small shift in Successful companies are those that press reports of possible new entrants?
the source of our business towards the challenge what has been achieved already A. Youre right, annuities represent a very independent financial advisers.
This year, in order to achieve more.
Legal & General large and growing market in the UK.
The we expect the housing market will expand does many things very well.
My goal though burden and impact of regulation on a bit, so the shift for 2006 may well be in the is for us to do more things better and thats companies generally is causing more and other direction.
where having a strong challenge and more of them to seek to transfer the risk of But, again, the key point is the fact that learning culture comes in.
Mistakes, although pensions liabilities onto the shoulders of we operate very successfully and in large one wants to avoid them, do get made.
On a Modied Statutory Solvency basis.
On an International Financial Reporting Standards basis.
qxd 4 4 06 12:57 pm Page 6 Group Chief Executives review important for Legal & General in our dealings with all our stakeholders.
In my view, customers are one of the most important of those stakeholders, hence the emphasis we are putting on our Customer Experience Programme.
But our Community Involvement Programme is, I think, immensely important as well.
We support a large number of charities, either associated with our businesses or close to our main ofces, and we do this with the purpose not so much of getting recognition or plaudits, but rather because we believe they are important causes to be supporting ones that are really doing good and helping people.
And, I think, our staff recognise what we do, approve of it and value it.
It helps colleagues to appreciate what Legal & General stands for and, ultimately, I think that inuences the kind of people who The point is to learn from them, not to spend time nding people to blame.
want to work for us and how they behave towards their colleagues and customers.
Legal & General has a good team culture already, in my view, and the surveys we do confirm this.
So it is not a question of creating any sort of new culture but rather just reinforcing how confident colleagues can be, of Legal & Generals future success.
Getting to be leading-edge across the product range is, I believe, well within reach.
As I say, it is my challenge to make sure we Tim Breedon get there.
How helpful do you think the Groups relationship with its trades union, Amicus, will be in this respect?
Ive seen the relationship being criticised for being too cosy.
Our relationship with Amicus is, in my view, immensely important to the Group.
It gives us the ability to operate both more exibly and more efficiently than we would be able to otherwise, and I think it also helps us to deliver quality customer service.
This is because our Amicus representatives encourage an open, constructive dialogue based on trust and a common goal of making the Group successful.
Partnership works at Legal & General because it is approached with the right attitude of mind.
Given what youve just said, is there, do you think, a role for Corporate Social Responsibility CSR in achieving good employee relations?
Yes, although I think CSR has wider implications than just employee relations.
Ive written the introductory piece for our web-based CSR Report this year and it is 1 also reproduced in the Annual Report.
This seeks to explain why I believe CSR is so 1. pages 22 25 6 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2005 10569 pp007-017.
qxd 31 3 06 2:49 am Page 7 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Contents 7 Operating review 18 Finance Directors review 22 Corporate social responsibility 26 Board of directors business, has developed expertise in a Legal & General has an OPERATING REVIEW broad range of investments.
At the end excellent track record of 2005, LGIM managed over 204bn of and the strengths to build assets, including UK equities of 67bn, estimated to be equivalent to 3.8% of on its successes.
Our scale, the FTSE All-Share index.
exibility, expertise and Legal & General Group Plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange customer focus are hard with a capitalisation of 7.9bn as at to replicate.
In 2005, we were voted Life Insurer of the Year for the sixth year in a row at the British Insurance Awards, hat We Are a welcome recognition of our successful Back in 1836, the strategy and commitment to customer service.
Legal & General Assurance Although predominantly in the UK, Society Limited was we manage a number of overseas established in London by subsidiaries, most signicantly in the Wits six founders a group Netherlands, France and the United States of solicitors and a barrister.
Our first ever life of America USA.
policy was written in October of that year.
We believe that with our continued 170 years later, Legal & General is one strength, experience, exibility and the of the largest providers of life insurance support of our skilled employees we can products in the UK and also offers a wide condently expect further successes in range of savings and investment products.
In addition, we write general insurance business predominantly household Our Business and Strategy insurance and administer one of the The strength of the Groups financial resources largest organisations of mortgage advisers.
allows it to provide a wide range of financial 1 Fig 2.
UK Retail Market Performance Legal & General Partnership Services Limited services products.
In return for this use of 200 and the Mortgage Club together arranged capital, Legal & General aims to price those 180 over 20bn of mortgages last year.
products to deliver attractive returns and 160 Underlying our UK life insurance suitable rewards to our shareholders.
140 business is a strong balance sheet.
This has In order to sustain our returns, supported Legal & Generals consistent growth Legal & General has pursued a strategy of: 120 in UK market share over the last decade, and Maintaining expertise in a wide range 100 underpins our confidence that profitable of product categories retirement savings, 80 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 growth can be supported into the future.
unitised savings, protection, retirement Legal & General Legal & General Investment income contracts, retail investments, fund Association of British Insurers Retail Market Size Management LGIM, our fund management management and general insurance.
Based on new business APE Rebased 2001 100 www.
