Royal & SunAlliance 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 UK operating review Throughout the year we have maintained underwriting discipline and focused on operational excellence.
competitive, profit led stance on rating and to focus on further UK operational improvements and cost efficiencies.
m 2005 2004 Our focus on reducing costs and driving efficiency in all areas General business of the business continues.
We have started to implement a new Net written premiums 2,632 2,555 IT infrastructure and have enhanced our customer service by Underwriting result 154 95 process improvement and staff training.
Development of our Insurance result 475 377 performance management culture throughout the UK has led Combined operating ratio COR 93.1% 96.3% to greater alignment between the performance of our people and the reward and recognition they receive.
2005 has been another very positive year for our UK We have continued to grow our market leading technical business.
Following the structural changes of recent excellence in underwriting and claims, and brought greater years, we now have a platform in place to deliver alignment to how each of these core competencies serve our sustainable profitable growth.
This revised focus allows us to evolve our customer on disciplined technical underwriting, underpinned by segmentation, propositions and our ability to trade profitably continuous operational improvement, we continue to through the market cycle.
demonstrate our ability to deliver sustained profitability.
Business progress against strategies Overview of major strategies The UK business is the largest operating unit within the Group In Commercial, we have continued to consolidate our position and has produced a strong set of results for the third year in and have concentrated our efforts on market segments where we succession, with an overall COR of 93.1% compared with 96.3% can capitalise on our ability to win and retain profitable business.
We are well placed to manage through the cycle based on our Over the last two years, we have reduced our headcount by 18% strong relationships in the marketplace and the flexibility derived to 10,500.
Our plan to move 1,200 roles offshore continues.
We have transferred around 550 roles and expect to transfer In Personal, we aim to realise further efficiency improvements the balance by the end of 2006.
Customer service has been and generate profitable growth.
Our strategy is to maintain a maintained whilst making these changes.
With 3.5 million small businesses in the UK, the small and medium enterprise market offers an ideal growth opportunity for the UK business.
As the second largest player in this sector through our Enterprise brand, we are well placed to meet the insurance needs of these businesses through our direct and broker propositions.
In 2006 we will introduce several new products through our direct offering, MORE TH N Business and there will be an increased emphasis on this route to market.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 15 Online sales for our direct personal lines proposition, Throughout the year we spent considerable effort reviewing MORE TH N, now account for half of all the motor policies and revising our control environment.
We have the operating we sell, up from around 25% in 2004.
Each month in the UK procedures and systems in place to maintain our discipline on there are over seven million insurance related internet searches underwriting, risk accumulation and risk appetite.
and we are taking action to ensure we are well positioned in Claims this market.
Fundamental transformation of our claims capabilities, along with We delivered the first phase of our major new IT platform in 2004 a clear focus on actively managing indemnity costs, has played and throughout 2005 we continued to implement this across the a key role in driving our strong performance.
Our claims system is now live in all of our major sites began in 2004 and is on schedule for completion during the and our new policy administration system AIS is live in many of second quarter of 2006. our Commercial offices.
Completing the implementation of these We have focused on identifying the optimum method for systems fits our strategy for process and system rationalisation.
Our new claims system is allowing us to This allows us to decommission 10 major legacy systems and restructure our claims handling team and deliver benefits including accrue further significant cost savings.
more effective management of customer claims.
Underwriting We have led the market in leveraging our significant annual We have made good progress in developing market leading spend to develop active supply chain management solutions.
capabilities in the pricing and selection of risks.
First recognised by Lloyds TSB in 2004, this was further endorsed Within Commercial we have introduced underwriting filters to when Co-operative Insurance Society appointed us as their ensure the business we write properly reflects our strategically selected partner for the provision of a household contents and defined risk appetite.
To augment this, we have introduced new buildings supply chain.
training schemes for key underwriters to ensure adherence to Our claims capabilities provide an important point of technical pricing across the business.
We deliver a high In Personal we have implemented new rating methodologies level of customer satisfaction through our rapid and helpful across our direct and intermediated motor books.
This response to customer claims.
sophistication has allowed us to confidently re-enter the brand Commercial broker market, worth 2.7bn gross written premium GWP and Commercials COR of 91.9% shows a 4.1 point improvement forecast to grow to 3.6bn GWP by 2008. on 2004.
The underwriting profit of 115m is up 60%.
These The initial release of AIS delivered improvements for servicing results reflect both the quality of our Commercial portfolio and our motor fleet customers.
In 2006 the system will be our continued focus on operational excellence.
Among a strong implemented across our business delivering an improved set of performances, a number of segments stand out.
We have service through end to end processing.
This provides a single a contract with Motability, who provide mobility solutions for view of the customer, improves consistency, minimises the disabled people.
They have the largest fleet in Europe and administrative burden on underwriters and reduces the time customer numbers have increased this year.
In addition customer taken to bring new products to market.
numbers have increased in Risk Solutions and Marine.
At the same time, retention improved by 3 points on 2004 to 85%, despite intense market competition.
Property Investors and Marine 62% Commercial net written premiums Property 711m INCREASE IN Motor 599m UNDERWRITING Casualty 348m Other 144m RESULT Royal & SunAlliance 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 UK operating review continued have high retention rates reflecting the depth and strength During 2005 we have improved the functionality of the of our relationships with customers and intermediary partners.
MORE TH N website and complemented this with targeted marketing to move customers towards using the internet.
These With a total market share of 10.1%, Commercial is the second changes, as well as a general trend towards internet usage, have largest insurer in the sector.
We have a 12% share of the property resulted in growth of 109% via this channel compared to 2004. segment, a 14% share in motor and 9% in liability.
We insure We now have around 15,000 visitors each day.
40% of FTSE 100 companies and are one of the leading carriers of Professional & Financial and Marine risks outside For our partners in the intermediated sector we introduced an Lloyds of London.
This has been installed in a number of building societies, enabling them to offer insurance Commercial is the second largest player in the SME sector.
Our alongside their mortgage propositions.
direct commercial proposition is sold through the MORE TH N Business brand and aimed at the 3.5 million small businesses We also introduced a number of new products into the in the UK with a turnover of under 1m.
It achieved impressive intermediated market during 2005 including ClearChoice growth during 2005 with policy numbers more than doubling.
We home and DriveSelect motor.
ClearChoice is our first home also offer our established Enterprise service through brokers and a product to be delivered via our electronic business to business bespoke service to corporate clients via the intermediated channel.
platform which helps us deliver value to our customers through competitive, factor based pricing and demonstrates our We have continued to anticipate and respond to the insurance commitment to this channel.
needs of particular segments through understanding our customers.
Marine was recognised by winning both the We have increased our participation in seven leading panels, Underwriter of the Year award at the British Insurance Awards, including AA, Kwik-Fit and Hastings.
This was made possible by and the Risk Management award at the Insurance Times Awards.
our improved pricing sophistication that will allow us to deliver competitive prices and acceptable returns from this sector.
Personal lines In the Personal business we achieved a COR of 95.6% in 2005 The affinity channel, where we manage large groups of reflecting an improved performance from MORE TH N and the customers through a single source, has also been developed intermediated business.
Household delivered an impressive further underlining our proven ability to create solutions for COR of 90.4%, with motor achieving a COR of 102.9%.
our partners and enabling us to grow this side of our business.
In 2005 we successfully negotiated deals including Yorkshire MORE TH N recorded another strong performance with its Building Society, where we added motor business to the household COR improving to 92.4% and net written premiums up by 11% portfolio we already have with them.
During the year we have to 432m.
We met our target of a sub 25% expense ratio by renewed contracts including Toyota GB where we service their the end of 2005. motor insurance account for a fee.
We continue to be a leading player in our chosen markets.
Market and economic conditions We are the third largest motor and household insurer in the The market has remained competitive in 2005, with downward UK with 3.5 million covers in place and a 6.5% market share.
pressure on rates in a number of classes.
Our rating experience Our multi channel distribution model, advanced call centre was mixed across the portfolio particularly in Commercial.
As a management expertise and proven ability to live brands leading insurer we are committed to maintaining pricing discipline.
provides competitive advantage in this rapidly evolving sector.
Well positioned to deliver sustainable profitable growth.
12 % SHARE OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTY SEGMENT Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 200517 In 2006 we will continue to target new business where we can expense base, will support our ability to generate attractive obtain attractive pricing terms and focus on retaining business.
returns in what remains a challenging marketplace.
Understanding our customers, delivering excellent service and We will continue to enhance the sophistication of our motor building strong relationships in our chosen markets, combined and home underwriting to enable us to tailor our rating tables with our market leading technical excellence in underwriting and to specific segments of business and types of customers.
claims, enables us to continue to manage the cycle effectively.
We have continued to demonstrate our ability to deliver strong It will see us deliver sustainable, profitable growth while maintaining financial returns and the service our customers demand.
believe the proven success of this approach over the past The personal lines market is extremely competitive, particularly three years is indicative of our ability to deliver sustainable in motor.
This underlines the importance of our ongoing strategy profitable growth.
of driving down operating expenses.
The good results being achieved by Personal demonstrate how far we have already come in developing our ability to trade profitably through the insurance cycle.
Outlook The UK business delivered good results.
Our key focus for 2006 will be maintaining our strong performance, while continuing our pursuit of operational excellence, ensuring underwriting discipline and targeting sustainable, profitable growth wherever it can be identified.
The completion of our new IT platforms for servicing policies and claims will enable us to enhance our operational effectiveness and improve our customer service and competitive pricing.
The web offers strong prospects for profitable growth.
We will continue building on the strong foundations established through the MORE TH N brand.
In particular, we believe a very significant opportunity exists to shape and lead the SME commercial market.
We will therefore be accelerating the growth of MORE TH N Business and intend to introduce several new products in 2006 to establish a commanding presence in this rapidly developing segment.
Following the completion of our claims transformation programme during 2006, we will continue to pursue further claims initiatives, including the expansion of our supply chain operation.
These, along with a range of initiatives aimed at reducing our operating We have invested significantly in our wholly owned bodyshops.
These sites undertake the entire range of motor repairs and in 2005 we opened a new state of the art facility in Birmingham.
We have also launched a new motor product for the personal broker market and we provide motor insurance for a range of corporate customers such as Land Rover, Toyota GB and Volvo.
