Operating review Group background and objectives The Group will drive its operations and strategy Carpetright is the market leader for floor coverings from these core objectives in the medium term and in the UK, Republic of Ireland, Belgium and will look to invest in the infrastructure and support The Netherlands.
Since Carpetright was founded operations to improve efficiency and better support in 1988 the business has proved that it can our stores and customers.
consistently grow market share, sales and profits.
We recognise that our people are the source Following the acquisition of the business in of the success of our operation.
We will continue to Belgium and The Netherlands in late 2002 and its invest in, train and develop our people to maintain subsequent development and improved profitability, a competitive advantage and ensure that we all the Group is aiming to develop further growth can share the rewards of success.
The core objectives of the existing operations are as follows: Overview of Group financial performance The Group recorded an underlying operating profit Focus on floor coverings: of 63.9 million, a reduction of 4.1% on last year, Keep the business operations simple and centred reflecting improved results in Belgium and around the stores: The Netherlands offset by a reduction in profits for the UK and Republic of Ireland.
The interest charge Provide the widest product range, best prices of 1.6 million was 0.1 million lower than last year.
and excellent service for the customer: The underlying pre tax profit was 62.3 million, Provide an inclusive offer which appeals to all a reduction of 4.1% on last year.
segments of the market: The Group recorded a profit on the disposal of fixed assets and disposal and termination of Achieve market leading positions in each country businesses of 11.5 million 2004: 3.0 million, in which we trade and grow market share: and which included the disposal of the freehold property Expand into mainland Europe where market in Croydon which produced a profit 7.6 million.
It also included 1.5 million cost for the termination and disposal of the Carpet Express business.
The goodwill charge for the year was 1.4 million 2004: 0.9 million, which included the 0.5 million impairment of the goodwill in the Carpet Express business.
The Group profit on ordinary activities before taxation increased by 8.0% to 72.5 million.
Underlying excludes goodwill amortisation and profits losses from the disposal of property assets or termination of businesses.
It also excludes any one off and prior period tax adjustments.
More stores in the two years and as a group Republic of Ireland have shown the best growth During the year we have in the Company.
We are doubled our representation in negotiation to open a in the Republic of Ireland further four stores and Targeting adding nine stores to give believe the potential for us a total of 17.
This this fast growing market expansion to cities across will be between 25 and 30 the country builds on our stores in total.
existing presence in and the around Dublin where we have traded for over three years.
These stores have grown strongly in the last customer Original stores Opened 2004 05 p Opening 2005 06 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 4 More stores in the Republic of Ireland Note Where the following text has reference to underlying UK and Republic of Ireland Market operating profit earnings and tax, these relate to operating The UK and Republic of Ireland retail floor coverings profits earnings before goodwill amortisation and profits losses Objectives market once again saw a decline in value during the on disposal of assets or the termination of businesses.
For the UK and Republic of Ireland we have updated course of the financial year with the last quarter being Additionally in the calculation of the underlying tax rate this our key objectives and the targets which we will look would also exclude any one off and prior period adjustments particularly difficult.
At the same time there remains to achieve in the next three years: which would distort the taxation charge on current year a surplus of supply to the market and the industry earnings.
Carpetright excludes goodwill amortisation from Carpetright out of town stores expand to 450 continued to see a number of large manufacturers its review of its operations as it considers this to be a non stores across the UK and Republic of Ireland, consolidate over the year.
We continue to work operating item whilst any profits losses on disposal of assets or the termination of businesses are discussed separately from including the new small store concept for smaller closely with a small number of selected the underlying performance because of their one off nature.
We plan to improve the portfolio mix and manufacturers who can meet the demand from the relocate from A1 to lower cost bulky goods parks customers we serve.
These relationships remain Financial results wherever possible.
critical to our business and enable us to provide the The business achieved an underlying operating latest ranges at the best prices with a strong focus profit of 60.9 million, a reduction of 6.0% Concessions stores build on the current on quality, service and delivery to the customer.
The business made a further concessions operations within Debenhams, As we identified last year vinyl is strongly 11.5 million 2004: 3.0 million from the disposal BHS and regional stores to create a 100 plus on trend.
This has been driven by new product of fixed assets offset by the termination of the concessions operation within department stores development in wood effect and nonslip vinyl Carpet Express operation.
As forecast the growth of laminate Sales for the year were 409.2 million, New channels develop our Carpetright at home has slowed considerably with engineered real which included 5.1 million of third party turnover business and Insurance business towards 10% of wood board replacing some of the laminate sales.
from the Carpet Express distribution business total UK turnover.
The consequence of these changes is that the which was closed during the year.
In the following carpet share of the market is now stabilising and comparisons and ratios we have excluded the Product maintain our leading position in carpets it still remains the UKs dominant floor covering.
third party Carpet Express turnover impact as it and vinyl as well as growing our market share and is non-retail and not part of the ongoing business.
proposition in other floor coverings.
Sales, therefore, were 404.1 million, an increase Service constantly invest in our service levels to of 2.1% compared to last year, reflecting a become the best in the marketplace and make this like-for-like sales decline of 1.3% mitigated by a source of competitive advantage.
sales from additional Carpetright space of 2.0% with the balance of 1.4% from concessions in department stores.
Smaller store expansion We now trade from 31 smaller stores having opened a net eight during the year.
These provide entry into new markets which are currently dominated by the independent retailer.
Our stores offer the full range of carpet and vinyl from samples as well as a selection of our best selling roll stock products and other takeaway items.
We have a strong pipeline of new stores for 2005 06 and our target is to open over 100 of these small stores in the medium term.
Insurance going from strength to strength We had another successful year for our insurance replacement business with several new corporate clients won as well as an Developing our High We expect to continue increase in market share Street concessions the growth of these outlets of the mandate from loss We finished the year with with further departments adjusters.
Our fleet of vans 27 concessions within within Debenhams planned has now been increased to department stores offering for the year as well as 50 to cater for both the a great range of carpet, expansion into some of the increased insurance volume vinyl, laminate and rugs regional department store as well as the additional to the high street customer.
Over the medium retail customers who are Whilst these floor covering term we have a target taking up the service of the departments are mostly of over 100 concessions.
new for the host store their results have exceeded our expectations.
Developing our High Street concessions Insurance going from strength to strength Smaller store expansion Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 5 Operating review continued The like-for-like sales performance was again very Whilst the distribution costs will reduce during the We now trade from 31 of our new small store format different across the two halves.
The first half saw coming year, as we are now only running one with eight opening during the year.
This new format, an increase in like-for-like sales of 3.0% with operation, we expect that the underlying pressure which we began rolling out in the last financial year, an especially good performance coming from the on rents, rates and energy costs will continue to enables us to enter markets where we had not months of May to August, helped by favourable drive our overall costs up.
This will be partially previously been represented and which up to now weather conditions compared to the previous mitigated by a further variable cost reduction were dominated by the independents.
We have a year as well as a strong promotional programme.
programme which we implemented during April three year target to trade 100 stores of this type and Second half like-for-like sales were down by 5.4% and May 2005 in reaction to the tougher trading have established a good pipeline during this and the reflecting the tougher trading environment, environment as well as the continuing benefit of next financial year.
particularly since the start of the 2005 calendar year.
our move from A1 parks to bulky goods parks.
Republic of Ireland expansion Despite this slowdown the business continued Underlying operating margin was 15.1% Our expansion programme across the Republic to gain market share as well as grow gross margin 2004: 16.3%.
Whilst the operating margin has of Ireland continues to make good progress.
and we remain confident that the combination reduced for the year it is still a good performance Following our initial openings around Dublin in 2001 of a wide range, best prices and our investment for the business in what has been a difficult we started to move into some of the other major in service will enable us to continue to outperform trading environment and given the level of external towns and cities across the country during the the market in the future.
cost pressures that are being seen across the second half of 2004.
Our decision to expand was Gross margin increased by 0.9 percentage retail market.
a result of the strong sales growth we were points with equal growth coming from each half.
Store portfolio development achieving in our existing stores as well as the detailed The increase reflected further buying scale We continue to develop our store portfolio and assessment we had completed on the marketplace.
improvements as well as a reduction in stock ended the year with 376 stores trading from At the end of the year we are trading from a losses and damage through better management 3,556k sq.
The net total of 17 stores in the Republic of Ireland with a of the distribution network and improvements in gain of 12 stores during the year was a result of further four due to open in the current financial year.
We expect these factors will enable 28 openings offset by 16 closures as we continue to We believe the potential for this market is between us to continue to improve gross margin during develop the quality of our locations, as well as move 25 to 30 stores and as we grow brand recognition the coming year.
from the more expensive A1 parks on to the bulky and advertising presence we expect that the Costs net of other income as a percentage of goods parks as opportunities become available.
Republic of Ireland will continue to show good sales increased by 2.1 percentage points reflecting: like-for-like sales growth.
higher underlying costs for rent, rates and energy: dual running costs for the close down of Carpet Express and our new distribution operations: as well as the reduced like-for-like sales performance.
New stores in Belgium and The Netherlands We spent much of the year in negotiation for a number of new stores The in both Belgium and The Netherlands.
We have targeted at least a further 20 stores to be added to the current 89 and have already signed up or are best in advance stages of negotiation for seven of these.
Our new store at Eeklo, opened just after the year end, represents the latest store format prices Completing the refresh in a brand new area programme in Europe for Carpetright.
During the autumn we completed the rebranding and refurbishment of the remaining stores in The Netherlands.
In total over 40 stores were updated with the latest Carpetright branding inside and out as well as upgrading and modernising the store where appropriate.
The chain across both Belgium and The Netherlands has now been completely updated over the last two years and the business operates from clean, fresh and re-laid stores.
p Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 6 New stores in Belgium and The Netherlands Completing the refresh programme in Europe Concessions Following the lessons from Allders and the It has been a mixed year for our concessions encouraging start at Debenhams we have started business.
We achieved growth following our entry our concession expansion plans into regional into the Debenhams stores but this was offset by the department stores across the country.
We opened contraction of the Allders operations when they went two of these concessions in Liverpool and into administration in early 2005 and subsequently Sunderland towards the end of the financial year and closed or sold the majority of their stores.
have a number of others in negotiation.
We believe Our In House Carpets brand had been that there is potential for at least 100 concessions in trading well within Allders and, having completed its department stores in the medium term.
first peak season through autumn and the January Profits from property sale, was achieving both sales and profits growth.
As we have outlined previously there is a significant We generated good net cash returns from our opportunity for us to generate cash, make profits, Allders operation over the time we traded and improve trading adjacencies and reduce our we have successfully proven the concept of ongoing rent bill by moving from A1 retail parks to the business trading within department stores.
During the year we negotiated to We continue to trade in one Allders store as well relocate from nine A1 parks.
Additionally we took the as eight of the stores which were sold to BHS opportunity to dispose of our freehold interest in our in March.
Croydon store which we had acquired in 1999.
Our business in Debenhams continues to This disposal achieved a net profit of 7.6 million.
make good progress following our first openings Our portfolio is now broadly split 50 50 in in November 2004.
We now trade from 16 stores relation to occupancy on A1 or bulky goods parks.
which include seven ex Allders stores and have Our intention is to continue this strategy of moving a further three stores agreed to open during the wherever possible to bulky goods parks, as we coming months.
Whilst it is still early in this area believe that we will not only generate a steady of business development, it is apparent that the stream of property profits but also gradually reduce strong Debenhams brand and the customer footfall our underlying rental payments over time.
this creates should enable the Group to build a good trading operation in a sector of the market where until now we had not been represented.
Supersaver Our keen prices remain central to our offer and this year more than ever the investment in price and how we promote our offer has been particularly important.
During the year we introduced our new Supersaver range of offers where we have taken a Carpet of the Month number of key lines and An offer which started reduced the price down early in the financial year to their lowest prices ever.
has proven particularly successful with top quality carpets selling at under half our list price.
We are achieving consistently good response to this offer and over the course Delivering lowest of the year we have sold prices across Europe over 26 miles of these In both Belgium and best selling carpets.
The Netherlands our price message is also of critical importance and we have further reduced prices to strengthen our market leading position.
Whilst this is an investment in margin we believe that the market share gains that the business continues to achieve are critical as we grow the business.
Carpet of the Month and Supersaver promotions Delivering lowest prices across Europe Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 7 Operating review continued Carpetright at home Service investment Our Carpetright at home business which services During the year we completed our programme both retail and insurance customers continues to to assess our third party floor covering fitters run make good progress.
During the year we won a in association with the Flooring Industry Training further four insurance contracts as well as seeing the Association FITA.
All of the 1,500 plus fitters to take up of our retail business via the Internet and call whom we subcontract have now been assessed centre achieve high double digit growth.
We have and the majority are now up to our standard.
We are again increased our van fleet and now have a total already seeing the benefit of this programme with of 50 vans in service.
Whilst this business currently reduced customer complaints and less damage makes up a small part of our overall turnover and and replacements helping to underpin our better profits, the growth rate and potential is significant and overall service offering which continues to make we expect to see further growth in the coming year.
this a source of competitive advantage.
Product Distribution investment Our product offer has continued to develop with We completed our review of distribution operations vinyl flooring being the star performer, its strong during the year.
We opened our new standalone growth being driven by new product development.
distribution operation at Huntingdon in January 2005 The carpet market share has now stabilised and and our new fleet of 90 Carpetright liveried trailers carpet continues to take the majority share of the and linked-pod vehicles arrived towards the end of market with brown and chocolate shades being the financial year.
This new operation is managed by on trend, replacing some of the creams and ivories Exel Logistics and enables us to provide a quicker of recent years.
Laminate has, as expected, service to our stores as well as better product slowed from the growth rates seen in recent years tracking, helping us to reduce loss and damage.
and we have adjusted our ranges accordingly.
The existing Carpet Express operation was The take away roll stock offer continues to closed during the year and the one off termination be our most consistent performer, once again and disposal costs of 1.5 million have been reflecting the desire to update and improve a room reflected in the results.
With the closure complete at a very affordable average cost of under 95. and our new operation up and running we expect to see our distribution costs reduce over time as we become more efficient and benefit from having control of our own dedicated operations.
Media advertising We also continue to attract our customers via a number of media with advertising spend across television, The radio and newspapers throughout the year.
Our new leaflet for our latest promotion has also proven particularly successful allowing the customer to widest browse the great offers available as well as receive extra discount with our cut-out coupons.
range p Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 8 Media advertising Systems investment Acquisition of Mays Carpets Having now traded the business for 30 months We also commenced our systems investment We are pleased to announce that we have agreed we have completed the initial phase of development programme for the UK and Republic of Ireland to purchase Mays Holdings Limited, which trades to improve the stores and operations as well operations during the year.
The first phase of our as Mays Carpets from three stores at Abingdon, as grow market share, sales and profitability.
investment went live over Easter 2005 with a new Cheltenham and Swindon.
The purchase price is Our objectives and targets over the next three central database and a data warehouse reporting 6.5 million for a business which currently makes years to be achieved are: system being implemented.
This will be followed 1.4 million pre tax profit from sales of Increase our stores coverage to 110 plus across with new integrated central systems for buying, 7.6 million.
The business which has been trading Belgium and The Netherlands: operations and finance during the first half of the for over 45 years operates from the best retail sites current financial year.
in the three towns in which it trades and will Continue to sublet excess trading space and Once the central systems have been bedded significantly improve our representation in these maximise the returns from all space we operate, down the store programme will commence and areas.
Carpetright will rebrand the stores and lease or own: we intend to pilot in a number of stores towards reorganise or close its existing stores in these areas Refine our proposition, invest in price and the end of the current financial year.
releasing cash benefits and improving the overall promotional offers in order to gain market share: Our intention is to create an improved profitability of our representation.
The transaction systems platform for our UK and Republic of will be completed by the end of July and will be Invest in service on the same lines as the UK and Ireland operations which can then be rolled out earnings enhancing in the current financial year.
Republic of Ireland to improve our offer to the across the other countries in which we trade so customer and make this a source of competitive keeping operations clear, simple and consistent.
Belgium and The Netherlands advantage: and Summary and prospects Objectives Use the knowledge gained from our business in The business has made significant progress during When we acquired the business in Belgium and Belgium and The Netherlands as a platform to the year with expansion in the Republic of Ireland The Netherlands in late 2002, we stated that we move further into mainland Europe.
and growth of the new smaller stores as well as wanted to create a leading floor covering specialist the development of the concession operation.
based on similar principles to the UK and Republic The growth plans are very much on track and these of Ireland operations.
We set out to achieve a market are supported by our ongoing investment in service, leading position, high market share and double digit distribution and systems.
Whilst the floor coverings operating margins.
market is expected to remain challenging in the short term, the business is well placed to continue its growth plans and increase market share.
Strong growth in vinyl Having seen considerable growth in the laminate range in the last few years, this year we saw vinyl take over as the fastest growing floor covering.
Product development has been the driver with wood effect and textured products being the best sellers in our market leading range of takeaway and special order products.
Price, of course, remains critical to our offer and our keen prices, alongside our good service, have ensured we continue to take market Lessons from Europe share in this growing area.
translated to the UK Towards the end of our Carpet making financial year we began to a comeback roll out our new rug ranges As well as vinyl we have across the UK stores.
also seen carpet beginning The ranges have built to stabilise market share on some of our lessons after several years of loss to from our stores in Belgium the laminate offer.
The driver and The Netherlands and here is customer taste with take us to a new level in many customers coming affordable, keenly priced back to carpet after having take away rugs.
Whilst it laminate as a floor covering.
is early days the initial The key features are response has been warmth, insulation, less encouraging and we noise and, of course, with expect these improvements a number of new ranges will lead to good growth of berbers and twists now in our market share in a available, fashion as ever category which remains does play its part.
a large opportunity for the business.
Carpet making a comeback Strong growth in vinyl Lessons from Europe translated to the UK Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 9 Operating review continued Market In both Belgium and The Netherlands the offer has Costs net of other income remain tightly controlled, The market in both Belgium and The Netherlands been improved with better ranges, new products with the benefit of actions taken in the previous has continued to decline in line with the pattern of and further investments in the market leading financial year feeding through.
The Netherlands in particular price position.
Additional initiatives including subletting of has seen a reduction in the demand for floor covering In September 2004 we changed the excess space and the variable cost reduction due to several significant macro factors impacting business process in the Dutch stores so that the programme have also provided benefits.
The product trends have remained cost of fitting is now paid direct to the third party of other income as a percentage of product sales reasonably stable with the demand continuing to contracted fitter by the customer.
This is a more reduced by 0.5 percentage points across the year: have a more balanced weighting between soft floor efficient operation and is in line with the UK despite the additional investment in advertising as coverings carpet and rugs compared to smooth process.
The impact of this change is that the well as the extra depreciation due to the rebranding floor coverings vinyl, wood and laminate than we turnover for the fitting services in The Netherlands and modernisation programme.
experience in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
is now no longer recognised in the sales number.
Underlying operating margin as a percentage Hence whilst total sales for the year have fallen of product sales has improved to 6.2% 2004: 3.9%.
Financial results compared to last year, this is as a direct result of The underlying operating margin is measured The business in Belgium and The Netherlands the fitting turnover being removed.
as a percentage of product sales to remove the recorded an underlying operating profit of The gross product margin for the period distortion of the fitting service income as noted 3.0 million, an increase of 65.0% on last year.
has increased by 1.8 percentage points due to a above and also to enable comparison to the UK This was a good performance in a marketplace combination of buying scale, efficiency and reduced and Republic of Ireland which is completed on which continues to contract and represents losses and damage.
We expect the gross product the same basis.
significant gains in market share as well as margin to continue to grow during this financial The improvement in the underlying operating improvements to margins and costs.
year as a result of a continuation of these factors.
margin reflects the benefits of the sales growth, Sales in both Belgium and The Netherlands improved gross margin, and cost control coming have shown growth on the year with product sales through and this improvement is a significant step in local currency increasing by a total of 1.3%.
towards achieving our medium term targets.
The business traded from an average of 89 stores during the year compared to last years 88.
The average space for the year was up 6,000 sq.
ft. net of sublets, a total growth of 0.5%.
Investing in service Investing to make We have also commenced our stores better for the first level of investment the customer in our new systems to Our ability to provide improve both management excellent service to information and functionality the customer remains for our business.
critical to our overall offer.
We completed the first During the year we have release of our new systems invested in both fork lift over the Easter period with trucks and other handling subsequent releases to be equipment in our stores rolled out over the coming to make it easier to load two years once we have and unload for our staff.
p Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 10 Investing to make our stores better for the customer Store portfolio development Rebranding and modernisation The business closed the year with 89 stores having We completed the rebranding and modernisation opened one store during the year.
The business of the remaining stores in The Netherlands towards is trading from 28 stores in Belgium and 61 stores the end of the first half.
All the stores are now in The Netherlands with a combined trading space furnished in the latest format with new signage, of 1,143k sq.
We have branding and layout.
This concludes the process commenced our expansion plans and since the we commenced when we purchased the business year end we have opened a further two stores just over two years ago.
The business will now with a further five due to open later in the year.
follow a refurbishment cycle similar to the UK These new stores are in areas where the business and Republic of Ireland which requires a minimal is not currently represented and is a result of amount of ongoing capital investment unless there 18 months development work.
We are working is a significant development of an individual site.
towards a target of 110 stores across Belgium Summary and prospects and The Netherlands in total within a three year The business continues to benefit from the wide time frame.
range of floor covering products sold and the We continue to assess the sublet focus of the business as a floor covering specialist.
opportunities for the business where we have This wide range, alongside the best prices excess space.
We had completed 10 such sublets underpinned by good service and product by the year end with a further 10 opportunities still knowledge has enabled the business to achieve available within both our one and two floor outlets.
strong profit and cash flow growth despite the Whilst the timing of these can not be definite, contracting market.
With the modernisation as much depends on planning and permits, programme complete and the store expansion this remains a potential source of revenue over plans under way the business is well placed to the coming years.
continue to grow market share.
Our new distribution operations Towards the end of the financial year we moved to a standalone facility for all our deliveries of cut length carpet.
Our new Quality people means 80,000 sq.
ft. distribution better service centre in Huntingdon As well as all the investment came on stream in January in equipment and systems followed by our new our biggest asset remains 90 strong delivery fleet our people in our stores in April.
These operations who provide the service to are managed for us by our customers.
We have Exel Logistics and enable continued to train and the business to improve develop our people as well delivery speed and service as providing better terms to our customers.
and benefits to improve both recruitment and retention.
We completed the first stage of the assessment of our independent carpet fitters during the year.
All fitters recommended by Carpetright have attended our fitters academy for assessment and, where necessary, have been required to attain the necessary standard to ensure that the service they provide to our customers is second to none.
This programme is paying off with better quality fitters for us to work with as well as reduced customer complaints.
Our new distribution operations Quality people means better service Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 11
