Review of operations Industry and markets Our industry We supply heavy building materials and services to the public and private construction sectors.
Our key products include aggregates, ready-mixed concrete, asphalt, cement, concrete and steel pipe, precast concrete products, bricks and roof tiles.
End use markets and demand drivers The end use of our products and services may be categorised into residential, infrastructure, and industrial and commercial construction applications.
Residential includes public and private housing, and comprises both new build and repair, maintenance and improvement RMI.
The level of new housing spend in this sector is driven by population growth and demand for new housing offset by supply constraints such as house prices and planning permissions.
Statistics for housing starts and completions are published in several of our major markets, including the US and UK.
RMI work includes DIY spend and is often linked to consumer confidence.
Infrastructure includes transport such as road, rail and airports and utilities including water transmission, sewage, power and communications.
Typically, infrastructure spend on both new projects and RMI is government funded, for example through the SAFETEA programme in the USA.
Infrastructure demand is driven by demographics, namely population growth, along with government fiscal policy and priorities and planning constraints.
Industrial and Commercial includes offices and factories as well as schools and hospitals.
This category of construction is funded by both the public and private sectors and may include public finance initiatives PFI.
Drivers for private spending include economic growth.
Typically, public spending is driven by political priorities.
Competitive position Our aim is to establish Hanson as one of the leading suppliers in each of the local markets in which we operate.
This requires a network of well-located operations which can be used to optimise customer service and transport costs and to leverage economies of scale.
These competitive positions can be strengthened through Top: On site at the Old Bullring, Barcelona, Spain.
Acquisitions can add value through the realisation of operating and Bottom: Box culverts at Grand Prairie plant, cost saving synergies in areas such as increased asset utilisation and reduced Texas, USA.
Vertical integration in aggregates In some markets, aggregates producers are integrated downstream into ready-mixed concrete and asphalt production.
In addition, asphalt producers may undertake maintenance contracts and surfacing work.
Ready-mixed concrete producers may have upstream cement operations.
Our focus is on aggregates, but we own and operate ready-mixed concrete, asphalt and cement operations where this is desirable.
Economic characteristics Transportation costs are significant In general, our products have a low-value to weight ratio.
This means the cost of transport is a significant element of the total cost of our products to our customers.
For example, in some markets the maximum economic road delivery distances for aggregates may be as little as 20 miles.
Consequently, the proximity of our operations to our customers is important to our overall competitive position in each market.
Delivery to the final destination is principally by road, but we do use alternative transport such as rail or marine to move products in certain markets.
Building products may have longer economic delivery distances, depending on market dynamics.
Barriers to entry Access to mineral reserves, and the ability to obtain the necessary legal permissions to extract them, is one of the main barriers to entry for our aggregates and brick operations.
These barriers to entry are increasing in the mature markets in which we operate as planning and environmental controls become more onerous.
We aim to work with planning authorities and local communities to ensure we comply with all regulatory requirements and maintain a strong reserve position.
Review of operations 5 Review of operations continued Our building products operations have barriers to entry due to the significant scale, capital and expertise requirements.
For example, concrete pipe and precast products are produced for engineered applications where significant technical expertise is required in design, manufacturing and sales.
Technological advances afford us the opportunity for continuous reinvestment and upgrading of manufacturing facilities.
Low substitution threat and low price elasticity The threat of substitution for most of our products is low.
Recycled aggregate materials are used in certain applications, particularly in the UK, following the introduction by the UK government of an aggregates levy.
We continue to increase the proportion of high value aggregates produced in our plants.
Service and quality The service and quality elements of our product offering are essential components of our product positioning.
Examples of important factors in creating value for our customers in our Aggregates divisions include the technical strength specification in ready-mixed concrete, the grip and durability of asphalt and the on-time delivery to site and consistency of size and grade of aggregates.
Examples in our Building Products divisions include colour matching of bricks, strength and precision of construction of pipes and product availability during peak demand periods for bagged aggregates products.
Our products Aggregates Hanson is one of the worlds largest producers of aggregates.
Excluding joint ventures and associates, we sold over 221m tonnes of aggregates in 2005, from more than 380 quarries in North America, the UK, Australia and Asia Pacific and Continental Europe.
Aggregates sand, gravel and crushed rock are used in a wide variety of applications, including as a base material for road building, in the construction of rail lines, laying of water transmission and drainage pipeline and as landfill.
When mixed with cement and other additives, ready-mixed concrete or concrete products are produced which are used in a wide variety of buildingrelated applications.
When mixed with bitumen they become asphalt, which is used as a surface material for roads, airport runways and car parks.
Hanson uses aggregates primarily from three sources: land quarried sand and gravel: marine dredged sand and gravel: and land quarried crushed rock.
The process to extract crushed rock may require stripping which is the removal of overburden material such as top soil and clay from above the mineral deposit.
Rock is blasted in predetermined extraction patterns and hauled to mechanical crushers by truck or by conveyor belt.
Depending on the geological properties of the deposit, the crushers may be arranged in multiple crushing circuits which separate the rock into different sizes whilst minimising waste or by-product.
The finished rock is shipped to customers, by road, rail or water or collected by customers from the plant.
The process for sand and gravel is similar, although reserves tend to be shallower than for crushed rock, and extraction generally does not require blasting.
Top: Criggion hard rock quarry, Shropshire, UK.
Bottom: Ready-mixed concrete being delivered Ready-mixed concrete in Barcelona, Spain.
Ready-mixed concrete is made from aggregates, cement, water and chemical admixtures.
The ready-mixed concrete is mixed at the plant to ensure it meets the specified technical requirements, particularly strength, and is transported to site in a truck which agitates the mixture to keep it homogeneous.
Ready-mixed concrete is used in a wide variety of applications in the construction sector.
We supply to a wide variety of customers of varying sizes, ranging from major international construction companies to do-it-yourself enthusiasts.
Excluding joint-ventures and associates, Hanson sold over 20m cubic metres of ready-mixed concrete from 637 sites in eight different countries.
Review of operations 6 Cement Cement is a fine powder that is produced by mixing calcium carbonate, silica, alumina and iron ore and grinding them to produce a raw meal.
This raw meal is then heated and calcined in a kiln at a temperature of around 1500C, then rapidly cooled down to produce an intermediate product in the form of a hard pellet called clinker.
The clinker is mixed with gypsum and finely ground to produce cement.
Other materials can also be added at this stage such as slag and fly ash to improve certain characteristics of the cement.
We sold 1.8m tonnes of cement at our San Francisco USA plant during 2005.
We also own 25% of Cement Australia, which produces cement at its plants in Queensland, New South Wales and Tasmania.
Asphalt Asphalt is made from a mixture of 90% to 95% of dried aggregates, combined with 5% to 10% of heated liquid bitumen.
Bitumen is a by-product of the petroleum refining process and the price of bitumen is, in general, governed by the price of oil.
Asphalt is used as a surfacing material for roadways and airport runways by the construction sector.
Different types of asphalt surface can be produced depending on the grade of aggregates used, which will give the surface differing qualities such as improved grip for vehicles or quieter tyre noise.
In certain markets, including the UK, Hanson also enters into long-term contracts under term maintenance agreements with local authorities for highway upkeep and maintenance.
In other areas of the world, asphalt is sold directly to the end user at a local level.
The new asphalt plant at Pottal Pool quarry, near Cannock, UK serves Staffordshire and Excluding joint-ventures and associates, Hanson sold 11.7m metric tonnes the west midlands.
of asphalt in 2005 from 141 plants in six different countries.
Bricks Bricks are made from clay, which is extracted from the ground, processed, shaped and then fired in kilns.
Different types of clay produce bricks with differing qualities.
Bricks can be produced in a wide variety of colours and textures and are used primarily in the housing segment of the construction sector.
Bricks are used for their attractive appearance, efficient insulation characteristics, low maintenance and durability.
Automation in brick manufacturing is increasing, including the the use of robotics to improve brick handling.
In 2005, Hanson produced over 2.3bn bricks at 44 factories in the UK, the USA and Canada.
Concrete roof tiles Concrete roof tiles are made by extruding a sand-based concrete mix onto individual moulds.
Oxides and pigments can be added to the body or on the surface of tiles to obtain a variety of colours.
In addition, different surface textures may be added to the weather side of the tiles.
The tiles are cured, a process which dries and hardens the product, for a period of approximately one week.
They are then ready for installation.
We manufacture tiles at eight locations across the USA.
Concrete pipes and steel pipes Concrete pipes consist of gravity flow pipes and pressure pipes, with usage dependent on the strength requirement of the applications.
They are produced by embedding a reinforcing steel structure within concrete, and range in diameter from 25 centimetres to over 3.5 metres.
The large-scale structures are used in a wide variety of construction engineering applications, primarily infrastructure, including uses such as drainage systems and water transmission.
Gravity and pressure pipes are manufactured to rigorous US and international technical specifications.
Steel pipes are used primarily in water transmission applications and we produce a range of steel pipes from 45 centimetres to 3 metres in diameter.
We manufacture a wide range of large-scale concrete precast pipes and other similar structures at 76 locations in the USA and Canada.
Steel pressure pipes are manufactured at one location in Dallas, Texas.
Review of operations 7 Review of operations continued Precast concrete structures Hansons North American precast products are used for roadway drainage, airport drainage, stormwater management and utility construction.
In addition, we manufacture highway noise barriers and railroad level grade crossings.
The UK precast range includes a variety of flooring systems such as hollowcore and solid composite beam and block, stairs and landings, culverts, and a comprehensive range of bespoke precast products.
In Australia, the precast range includes a variety of walling, flooring and architectural precast products.
Skyway Project, Oakland Bay Bridge, Blocks California, USA.
Aggregate blocks are produced using dense and lightweight aggregates.
They are available in a variety of densities, strengths, configurations and finishes.
Aerated concrete blocks are produced under the Thermalite brand and are much lighter than aggregate blocks.
They are used by builders and specifiers for wall, floor and below ground construction, offering added properties of heat insulation, moisture resistance, strength and ease of handling.
In 2005, Hanson produced 7.3m standard production units of aggregate blocks 3 at nine UK plants and 850k m of aerated concrete blocks at three UK plants.
Our customers Hanson supplies its products and services to a broad range of customers, ranging from large multinational construction companies to DIY enthusiasts.
Key customers for our aggregates products include heavy construction and paving contractors, residential and commercial building contractors, concrete products manufacturers, state, county and municipal governments and railroads.
Customer service principles One of Hansons guiding principles is that we are customer focused and strive to provide premium quality products and services to all our customers.
Contact with customers is through our divisions, at local, regional and national levels.
Dedicated sales teams are the principal day-to-day support for our customer base, with strong management structures to ensure that strategy, controls and disciplines are adhered to.
We aim to be best in class in everything we do and our commercial strategy and performance is critical to this objective.
Our mineral reserves and resources The mineral reserves and resources which we own, or have the right to extract, are fundamental to the long-term growth of our business.
We estimate that our total mineral reserve and resources position including Hansons share of joint-ventures and associates as at December 31, 2005 is 15.9bn metric tonnes.
The table following details our mineral reserve and resource position as at December 31, 2005.
Reserves and resources are defined as follows: A Mineral Resource is a concentration or occurrence of material of economic interest in or on the earths crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, continuity and other geological characteristics of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge.
A Mineral Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses, which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments, which may include feasibility studies, have been carried out, and include consideration of, and modification by, realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction is justified.
Review of operations 8 Mineral Reserves and Resources as at December 31, 2005 Reserve Resource Total Reserve Total Reserves and resources bn tonnes bn tonnes bn tonnes Years Years US Aggregates 7.0 4.1 11.1 52 82 US Building Products 0.1 0.0 0.1 46 46 UK Aggregates 1.7 0.5 2.2 48 62 UK Building Products 0.1 0.1 0.2 41 88 Australia 0.8 0.5 1.3 34 57 Asia 0.2 0.1 0.3 22 34 Europe 0.5 0.2 0.7 21 25 Total Group 10.4 5.5 15.9 44 67 Crushed rock Sand and gravel Clay Total Reserve type bn tonnes bn tonnes bn tonnes bn tonnes US Aggregates 6.4 0.6 7.0 US Building Products 0.1 0.1 UK Aggregates 1.1 0.6 1.7 UK Building Products 0.1 0.1 Australia 0.7 0.1 0.8 Asia 0.2 0.2 Europe 0.5 0.5 Total Group 8.9 1.3 0.2 10.4 Reserve ownership Owned Leased Option US Aggregates 68% 32% US Building Products 95% 5% UK Aggregates 49% 51% UK Building Products 95% 5% Australia 90% 10% Asia 6% 94% Europe 35% 65% Total Group 64% 36% Reserve years and total years are calculated by dividing the tonnes of reserve and total tonnes respectively by the volume produced in 2005.
0.2bn tonnes of the reserves are clay reserves, held by the Building Products Top: Valdilecha limestone quarry, Madrid, Spain.
divisions, which are used to make bricks.
Bottom: Concrete products at Grand Prairie plant, Texas, USA.
64% of the total reserves at December 31, 2005 are owned.
The balance is either leased, or subject to an option to buy or lease.
Maps showing the locations of our aggregates and brick operations are provided on pages 16 to 36.
Objectives and strategy Our business objectives Our primary objective is to create sustainable, long-term value for our shareholders.
We believe this can be achieved only by working in partnership with our customers and other stakeholders in a responsible manner.
We aim to enhance the value of our existing assets and market positions by growing group turnover, earnings and group margins through the business cycle, assisted by the appropriate combination of maintenance, greenfield and value adding capital expenditure.
Additional value is sought through acquisitions, primarily targeting products or locations which can be bolted-on to our existing operations to complement or extend our business.
We believe there is an opportunity to significantly add value in the medium term and to reinforce our position as one of the worlds leading suppliers of heavy building materials.
Review of operations 9 Review of operations continued Our strategy We operate with a straightforward strategy.
1We plan to focus on growing our core products in selected markets We plan to continue to grow both our aggregates business and our heavy building products business We do not plan to participate in manufacturing light-side building products or in distribution We prefer to operate in markets which we consider to be mature, which have good demand drivers, high entry barriers and in which we believe we have the opportunity to establish and retain a strong competitive position.
2We aim to generate margin improvement Group strategy We intend to notify our customers routinely and in a timely manner of price increases 1Focus on core products We operate continuous efficiency and cost saving programmes.
in selected markets 2 Generate margin improvement 3We intend to continue to invest in capital expenditure to maintain 3 Invest in capital expenditure and enhance the performance of our operations 4 Invest in acquisitions We aim to maintain capital expenditure at or above our annual 5 Dispose of underperforming depreciation charge or non-core operations The balance is used to improve health and safety standards, ensure 6 Financial discipline environmental compliance and replace ageing plant and equipment.
4We intend to continue to generate value adding growth through our acquisition programme We aim to continue to invest in acquisitions over the medium-term Potential targets are evaluated on a discounted cash flow basis against our cost of capital, taking into account strategic fit, risk and return targets.
5We are prepared to make disposals of underperforming or non-core operations if required We are prepared to sell operations if they do not meet our medium-term ownership criteria although we believe that, at present, we have completed most of the required disposals.
6We intend to continue to enforce strong financial discipline in order to create long-term shareholder value We plan to continue our progressive dividend policy We plan to continue our routine and gradual share buyback programme We plan to maintain our investment grade debt ratings We will continue to be disciplined in our operating, investing and financing decisions We will not target short-term benefits to the detriment of the longer-term performance of the business.
Performance indicators Background The Board of Hanson PLC has key performance indicators to measure the progress of the Company against both its business objectives and its strategy.
The Board reviews performance against these measures on a regular basis.
Key performance indicators Group turnover represents the total amount charged to customers for our products and services, including delivery but excluding joint-ventures and associates, inter-company sales, property sales and sales taxes such as VAT.
Our aim is to increase turnover each year through a combination of price and volume growth from our existing market positions and assets, and additional turnover from acquisitions.
In 2005, we increased our group turnover by 9.8% to 3,715.7m.
Acquisitions made in 2005 contributed 4.2% of this growth.
The increase from the existing operations of 5.6% was due primarily to increases in selling prices rather than volume growth.
Review of operations Continuing operations 10 Group operating margin represents the group operating profit before impairments, divided by group turnover.
The word group designates that it excludes our share of joint-ventures and associates profit after tax.
Group operating profit before impairments is therefore group turnover less group operating costs.
Our overall aim is to grow or maintain margin each year.
This is an indicator of our ability to offset any cost inflation through productivity initiatives, including value adding capital expenditure, and through selling price increases.
The margin may be shown before property profits if such profits are significant in any given year.
The group operating margin may reduce due to either a change in the mix of business, or because of a significant increase in both costs and group turnover which has the effect of lowering margin even if profit is maintained.
In 2005, our group operating margin was 12.1% 11.8%, an increase of 0.3ppts.
Excluding property income of 14.9m 21.4m, the margin in 2005 was 11.7% 11.2%, an increase of 0.5ppts.
Operating profit before impairments represents group operating profit before impairments as defined above and before finance costs and taxation plus our share of profit after tax from joint-ventures and associates.
Operating profit before impairments provides a measure of our success in growing group turnover and managing costs and overheads for the group companies, as well as the contribution after tax from our joint-ventures and associates.
Our aim is to increase operating profit before impairments each year, through a combination of margin improvement initiatives, improvements to our joint-ventures and associates and through acquisitions.
The increase may be shown before property profits if such profits are significant.
In 2005, our operating profit before impairments increased by 15.4% to 488.8m, and by 17.9%, excluding property profits.
Operating profit from acquisitions made in 2005 contributed 4.3% of the 17.9% increase.
The share of joint-ventures and associates profit after tax added a further 4.3%, and the balance of 9.3% was due to an improvement in the existing group operating profit before impairments.
Profit before taxation is defined as operating profit after impairments, less finance costs.
Finance costs consist of interest payable and receivable on borrowings and deposits, the expected return on assets, and unwind of discounts, on pensions and other post retirement benefits, discounting and any net change in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities.
Our aim is to increase profit before tax in line with the increase in operating profit before impairments.
This may not always be possible however, given the potential volatility of the non-cash impairment amount, and the finance costs due to pensions and the requirement to fair value financial assets and liabilities.
In 2005, our profit before tax increased by 23.6% to 429.3m, compared to a 15.4% increase in operating profit before impairments.
Profit for the year is defined as profit before taxation, less tax and discontinued operations.
Tax includes current and deferred tax.
Discontinued operations include the cost of asbestos, shown as a loss on disposals in prior years, after tax.
Our aim is to manage our underlying tax rate, and reduce the annual cost of discontinued operations.
In this way, we aim to increase our profit after tax in line with the increase in operating profit before impairments.
Taxation includes full deferred tax accounting and charges and releases relating to tax provisions, some of which may vary significantly from year to year.
In 2005, our profit for the year increased by 46.7% to 387.6m, compared to a 15.4% increase in operating profit before impairments.
Review of operations Continuing operations 11 Review of operations continued Earnings per share EPS on basic, continuing operations before impairments This is our preferred measure of earnings per share, defined as profit for the year, adding back impairments and discontinued operations, divided by the average number of shares in issue during the period thus excluding shares held in treasury.
Our aim is to increase EPS in line with the increase in operating profit before impairments, although the potential volatility in the tax charge may affect our achievement.
In 2005, our basic EPS on continuing operations before impairments increased by 18.8% to 55.5p per share, compared to an increase in operating profit before impairment of 15.4%.
Net cash inflow from operating activities is defined as the cash flow generated by the operations, including dividends from joint-ventures and associates and payments for discontinued items such as asbestos.
It is stated after receipts and payments for interest and tax but before investing and financing activities.
Our aim is to increase net cash inflow from operating activities in line with the increase in operating profit before impairments.
This is an indicator of our ability to convert earnings into cash.
For items such as finance costs and tax, the cash impact may be a more meaningful measure than the complex accounting in the income statement.
In 2005, our net cash flow from operating activities reduced by 36.3m, or 7.2%, to 471.2m, compared to a 15.4% increase in operating profit before impairments.
The reduction included an increase in payments for tax of 35.8m unusually low in 2004, and an increase of 11.1m for net interest paid.
Acting responsibly within our communities, with our customers and our employees is a key objective for Hanson.
The Board monitors a variety of performance indicators relating to communities, including charitable donations and environmental performance.
We aim to comply with all relevant requirements in all jurisdictions in which we operate.
Employee KPIs include labour turnover and skills gap monitoring to ensure we develop and retain the appropriate skills set within the organisation.
We also monitor the lost time incidence rate LTI a lost time injury is one which results in the injured person being absent for one or more shifts and the lost day incidence rate LDI.
The number of days lost per accident is affected by the severity of the accident but also by the effectiveness of case handling and return to work programmes.
From 2006, we will also monitor the total case incidence rate which will provide a more sensitive measure as we drive down the number of accidents.
Our incidence rates are per 200,000 work hours approximating to 100 people working for a year.
This is an internationally used standard.
We use incidence rates as they adjust for changes in the level of production.
The lost time and lost day incidence rates for the last five years are shown in the following graphs.
Review of operations Continuing operations 12 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 LTI Comparison by year Jan-Dec LDI Comparison by year Jan-Dec 1.8 35 1.6 33 33 1.5 1.5 1.5 30 1.4 29 1.2 1.2 1.2 25 22 22 1.0 21 21 0.8 17 0.6 13 0.4 9 0.2 5 Other performance indicators In addition to the key performance indicators detailed above, Hanson uses a number of other financial and non-financial performance indicators.
These include commercial indicators such as changes in market share, volume and selling price together with on-time delivery rates and customer satisfaction measures.
Cost control is supported by ratios such as tonnes per manhour and overheads as a percentage of turnover.
Investment decisions are based on risk versus return evaluation using cash flow projections discounted at a weighted average cost of capital.
Assets, including mineral reserves, are monitored for quality, age and replacement need.
Financing indicators include interest cover ratios, gearing and cash flow to net debt.
Return on capital and economic value added calculations are used to measure and incentivise value creation.
Our operations Hanson operates through six divisions on a multi-national basis within the construction and building materials markets.
These divisions are as follows: Hanson Aggregates North America, Hanson Building Products North America, Hanson Aggregates UK, Hanson Building Products UK, Hanson Australia & Asia Pacific and Hanson Continental Europe.
The Chief Executive of each of these divisions reports directly to the Chief Executive of Hanson PLC and is responsible for the performance of their division.
Hanson PLC Alan Murray, Chief Executive Hanson Hanson Hanson Hanson Hanson Hanson Aggregates Building Products Aggregates Building Products Australia Continental North America North America UK UK & Asia Pacific Europe Jim Kitzmiller Richard Manning Patrick OShea David Szymanski Leslie Cadzow Justin Read Number of employees 5,600 6,800 3,200 3,100 4,200 1,200 Group turnover 2005 980.6m 753.7m 811.5m 368.2m 573.0m 228.7m Operating profit before impairments 138.4m 125.7m 108.8m 37.8m 89.7m 19.9m Countries of operation US US UK UK Australia Belgium Mexico Canada Greater China Czech Republic Hong Kong Germany Malaysia Spain Singapore The Netherlands Israel Products Asphalt Bricks Asphalt Bricks Asphalt Asphalt Cement Concrete pipe Crushed rock Aggregate blocks Cement Crushed rock Crushed rock and products Ready-mixed Thermalite blocks Concrete products Ready-mixed Ready-mixed Precast concrete concrete Precast concrete Crushed rock concrete concrete Roofing tiles Sand and gravel Packed products Precast concrete Sand and gravel Sand and gravel Recycled material Ready-mixed concrete Sand and gravel Excluding joint-ventures and associates Continuing operations Review of operations 13
