Operating review trade parks We see trade parks as a great opportunity.
The do it for you market is rapidly expanding and is currently fragmented and unsophisticated.
This allows us the opportunity to bring our core skills, experience and values to the benefit of our tenants and customers.
Andrew Lewis-Pratt, Chief Executive Fix UK Trade park market Growth This is a niche market.
Trade parks provide goods and services Our current trade parks portfolio is already the largest in the primarily to the building sector and are a one-stop shop for UK.
We intend to expand it significantly and rapidly through the Tradesmen.
There are already around 1,000 trade parks in the UK acquisition of investment and development properties which meet serving a market with a total spend of circa 50 billion per annum.
the following criteria: Current portfolio Dominant trade parks or capable of becoming dominant.
Since December 2005 we have assembled a portfolio of 19 trade An immediate catchment of no less than 50,000. parks with a value in excess of 70 million, purchased at a net initial Located close to main arterial routes and other retail and yield of 5.5% and with an average rent of just over 5 per sq ft. trade locations.
Planning for a trade park or capable of obtaining planning Branded trade parks Fix UK for a trade park.
Our core trade parks are in the process of being branded into Fix UK trade centres.
Applying the same consistency of standards Future performance adopted by our colleagues at The Junction, The Mall and X-Leisure, There are over 100 national and regional occupiers actively seeking the portfolio will benefit from new prominent signage, improved representation on prime trade parks.
We foresee many new entrants on-site facilities and close hands-on management by our in-house in this immature market further increasing the demand for the right operations team.
space, leading to significant rental growth.
Bruce Ruddle Jo Lord 24 Capital & Regional Trade parks managed by C&R Number Size of lettable Description sq ft Principal occupiers units Wholly owned by C&R Principal parks Low Southwick Industrial Estate and The property comprises an industrial estate and 75,384 Magnet, Ashtead Plant Hire, BSS Group.
21 Magnet Unit, Sunderland extends to 3.5 acres.
Enterprise Trade Centre, Bristol The property comprises an estate of purpose built 68,262 Motor World, Topps Tiles, Morplan.
Sheffield Industrial Estate and The scheme comprises five warehouse units and 55,873 Newey & Eyre Ltd, Anglian Windows, 6 Tinslink Industrial Estate, Sheffield one self contained unit, built in the 1970s.
Bletchley Trade Centre, Milton Keynes Purpose built trade counter constructed in 2000.
47,889 BSS Group, City Electrical Factors, 13 HSS Hire Service, Howden.
Units 1-3, Oakway and Units 1-8 Wren Unit, The Wren unit comprises a terrace of eight units and Treliske Industrial Estate, Truro Units 13 Oakway comprises three units.
11 Other locations Miller Street Industrial Estate, Aberdeen Newcastle Trade Centre Braintree Trade Centre, Essex Orbital Trade Park, Northampton Bulwark Business Park, Chepstow City Trading Estate, Norwich Pitreavie Business Park, Dunfermline Western Approach Industrial Estate, South Shields Tufley Industrial Estate and the Teledyne Building, Gloucester Units 112, Leechmere Industrial Estate, Sunderland Cappielow Industrial Estate, Greenock Eleanor Trading Estate, Waltham Cross Longhill Industrial Estate, Hartlepool The A5 Trade Centre, Cannock acquired March 2006 Capital & Regional 25
