Operating review leisure Our leisure team now operates a 1 billion portfolio of leisure destinations in the UK.
In addition to the Xscapes it manages the 701 million X-Leisure Fund and the Great Northern Retail Warehouse in Manchester.
It also manages Snozone, the ski slope operator.
The leisure market of restaurant operators such as Nandos, La Tasca and Pizza Express 2005 saw a further stage in the development of the leisure property who previously would not consider out of town locations are now sector.
Occupiers, developers and investors are becoming more aggressively pursuing such opportunities.
As for cinema groups, sophisticated in their thinking and no longer seek to cluster all they are looking to both fill in gaps in the market and create super sub-sectors together without too much attention to tenant mix.
cinemas such as Showcase Deluxe, and are no longer taking a Town centre circuits are evolving with operators seeking to be one-size-fits-all approach.
The outcome of the 2005 Gambling Act, complementary and slightly differentiate their offer.
Restaurant which effectively limited the anticipated level of fide-regulation clusters are becoming much more customer focused.
A number of the gambling industry has had little impact on the market.
20 Capital & Regional Investors are increasingly appreciating the benefits of owning No longer can owners within these sectors sit back and collect well-managed leisure destinations and we have seen the initial yields rent and expect to outperform educated specialist owners.
on our portfolio, adjusted for acquisitions and disposals, fall from 6.10% to 5.73%.
Yields are still significantly higher than for retail X-Leisure Fund property, and given the quality of the covenants, growing leisure The X-Leisure Fund has continued to enjoy the benefits of an spending and the structure of our leases, we believe there is room increasingly strong leisure market.
It has seen a 7% rise in footfall for the differential to close.
This, coupled with a 4% increase in leisure spend in the UK, has created good trading conditions for operators The X-Leisure approach which, in due course, should feed through to stronger rental growth.
As C&Rs leisure arm, the X-Leisure team has applied its successful business model throughout its business units, capitalising on The X-Leisure Fund in 2005 has sought to recycle capital released a very strong industry knowledge and expertise.
We have always from disposals into acquisitions that offer attractive returns.
Two passionately believed in the destination experience business model acquisitions, opportunities with strong growth potential were achieving differentiation and a unique selling proposal.
That is why identified in 2005 Cambridge Leisure Park acquired March as a team we concentrate on the consumer experience, as well as 2005 for 39 million and Queen's Links Leisure Park, Aberdeen our tenants partners success, and not just bricks and mortar.
Since the end of the year the X-Leisure Fund has acquired the UGC cinema at Sixfields, It is evident that todays consumer has become more sophisticated: Northampton for 9.2 million.
There are opportunities to increase therefore, product differentiation is paramount.
Differentiation comes this holding with adjacent schemes and development opportunities.
from range, price and location but increasingly the total consumer In term of sales, in January and February 2005 the X-Leisure Fund experience is vital.
Consumer experience and success comes from disposed of the three health and fitness clubs for 24.6 million.
leisure destinations delivering unique and integrated experiences.
Capital & Regional 21 Operating review leisure continued There has been very strong asset management activity in the Snozone Holdings portfolio during 2005 with new lettings, rent reviews and re-gears 2005 has been another record profit year for the C&R snowslope which have added significant additional value.
In addition, two operating business.
Despite increasing utility costs gas, electricity, major capital projects were completed: the refurbishment of Snozone Holdings, through its two operating units in Milton Keynes Tower Park, Poole and the installation of a new leisure attraction and Castleford Leeds delivered 1.85 million net profit.
With in Star City, Birmingham.
During 2005 the X-Leisure Fund did not an experienced and dedicated management team and a solid suffer any significant losses due to operator failure.
The total loss business strategy, our operating business should continue to grow for operators in default and subsequent void was below 1% of organically in the UK through future Xscapes, starting with the rental income.
We have also had a number of approaches from overseas property owners interested in working The X-Leisure Fund had very a strong performance in 2005 of 28.3% with us to leverage our operating expertise in other countries.
12% hurdle rate objective, achieving 18% return over nine months in its first year, 2004.
The X-Leisure Fund has proved itself, as This snow market is still not price sensitive.
The average ticket price a credible market leader with a strong base of 17 institutional remains higher than the market reference with an outstanding investors, and continues to prove the case for leisure as a long-term spend per head.
Snozone is managing to maintain high levels of sustainable investment, thanks to its successful growth, track record, quality of service within a more demanding environment due to a and financial performance.
high return visit ratio and better educated customers who do not hesitate to compare Milton Keynes and Castleford.
Xscape Xscape Milton Keynes MK has delivered a very strong return to C&R Cost control remains a key focus.
We have suffered from instability in 2005 of 38.9%.
It has proved itself as an excellent investment for in the utility market which caused an average increase of 22% in C&R, an excellent operating business for all its operators and also electricity year on year and a 43% increase in gas.
a huge success as one of the largest visitor attractions in the UK 6 million visitors in 2005.
Marketing and sales are the core elements of the business and revenue has increased year on year with a better targeted strategy Xscape Castleford Leeds has benefited from an excellent increase to develop and attract new potentials.
in footfall in 2005 3.2 million visitors.
Although retail was a challenge for the UK market, food and beverage and leisure outlets Great Northern Warehouse performed very well in 2005.
C&R bought the 50% stake owned by AWG plc in September 2005, and now owns 100% of the property.
Thanks to asset management Xscape Braehead opened on 6 April 2006 and is 90% pre-let initiatives, numerous lettings, and the completion of the lease with March 2006.
There is a huge enthusiasm in Scotland, for what London Clubs International, the building achieved a significant uplift promises to be the best Xscape to date.
from 72.5 million to 93.7 million in 2005.
Hemel Hempstead This property was acquired by C&R in 2005 for 17 million and is currently under review for a transformation into a mixed-use scheme.
The X-Leisure team PY Gerbeau 1.
Alastair Bell Chief Executive X-Leisure 2.
Robert Warner 1 2 34 5 22 Capital & Regional Leisure properties managed by C&R Number Size of lettable Description sq ft Principal occupiers units X-Leisure Fund C&R co-investment 10.7% Valued at 50 million plus Star City, Birmingham Featuring the UKs largest multiplex cinema and largest casino 392,985 Vue Cinema, Ten Pin, Stanley Casino, 30 in Europe, a health and fitness club, restaurants, bars, lifestyle Holmes Place.
retail and family entertainment centre.
Brighton Marina, Brighton The marina combines a mix of retail, leisure and residential, 299,351 UGC, Bowlplex, David Lloyd.
73 a working harbour and yacht moorings.
Finchley, This great outdoors themed centre houses the largest free 271,620 Vue Cinema, Sainsburys, Esporta.
23 London indoor aquarium in the UK.
Valued at 25 million to 50 million Parrs Wood, Manchester This centre has a mixture of facilities, including family restaurants, 234,286 UGC, Holmes Place, Ten Pin.
11 health and fitness, bowling, multiplex cinema, bingo, childrens entertainment and a hotel.
Fountain Park, Edinburgh Scotlands largest entertainment destination.
232,999 UGC, Ten Pin, Virgin Active.
12 Tower Park Leisure Park, Comprises a range of attractions, including a multiplex cinema, 206,148 UCI, Bowlplex, Rank.
17 Poole water park and family restaurants.
Norwich Riverside, Norwich This entertainment centre comprises bars, restaurants, 197,638 UCI, Hollywood Bowl, Luminar Leisure.
13 nightclubs, multiplex cinema and bowling.
Fiveways, Birmingham In central Birmingham, Fiveways comprises a cinema, casino, 186,345 UGC, Grosvenor Casino.
11 restaurants and late night bars.
Grants, Croydon This restored listed building contains bars, nightclubs 149,001 Vue Cinema, Holmes Place.
Cambridge Leisure, This centre has a nine-screen multiplex cinema, Health Club, 147,024 Cine UK, LA Fitness, Ten Pin.
20 Cambridge bowling, a hotel and range of international bars and restaurants.
Eureka Leisure Park, This centre comprises multiplex cinema, family restaurants, health 101,826 Cine UK, Travelodge, Living Well.
9 Ashford, Kent and fitness, nightclub, hotel, childrens nursery and free parking.
Valued at 10 million to 25 million Lockmeadow Leisure Complex, This destination is home to the 700-year old Maidstone 139,780 Odeon Cinema, Luminar Leisure, Maidstone Lockmeadow Market.
10 Queens Link Leisure Park, This leisure park, adjoining The Beach Esplanade, features 128,081 UGC, Gala.
9 Aberdeen a cinema and numerous restaurants.
Bentley Bridge Leisure Park, Comprises a health and fitness club, multiplex cinema, 108,843 Cine UK, Healthlands.
8 Wolverhampton bars and canal-side pub.
Great North Leisure Park, Comprising a multiplex centre, bowling, restaurants and 88,185 Vue Cinema, Hollywood Bowl.
West India Quay, Docklands, This listed building contains bars, restaurants, multiplex cinema, 70,857 UGC, LA Fitness, Scottish & Newcastle.
17 London health and fitness centre and the Museum of Docklands.
Boldon Leisure Park, Tyneside Cinema and restaurant complex adjacent to Asda.
3 Xscape Partnerships Joint ventures Xscape Milton Keynes This destination is anchored by the UKs largest indoor 420,000 Snozone, Cineworld, Virgin Active, 46 Real Snow Slopes.
Xscape Castleford, Leeds As well as a real indoor snow slope, this destination also features 368,000 Cineworld, Snozone, Bowlplex, 46 an ice climbing wall, skate park and indoor air park.
Ellis Brigham, Evans, Frankie & Bennys.
Xscape Braehead, Glasgow This entertainment destination comprises extreme sports and 380,000 Odeon, Snozone, Bowlplex, 37 leisure activities.
Wholly owned Valued at 50 million to 100 million Great Northern Retail Located in Manchester city centre, this converted Victorian 380,000 AMC Cinema, Virgin Active.
50 Warehouse, Manchester warehouse includes bars, restaurants, a health and fitness centre, shops and multiplex cinema.
Valued at 10 million to 25 million Leisure World, Jarmans Field, First generation leisure park acquired for 2005 for redevelopment 156,000 Luminar Leisure, Odeon Cinema.
