Operating Review: Investment Division A risk-diversified portfolio spanning industry sectors and different stages of development Performance LMS first invested in AssetHouse in 2000 and has 7.6 million invested which is held at 4.6 million.
LMS fully diluted LMS Investment Division portfolio is risk-diversified, shareholding is 76%.
containing holdings in quoted and unquoted companies at different stages of development in the UK and the US, together Bridgewell Group Limited Bridgewell is a relatively with a number of fund investments.
Underlying trading in new London-based investment bank which is successfully most of our investee companies has significantly improved over developing its high quality corporate finance and securities the last 12 months.
businesses, and has won some notable mandates.
It is well positioned to take advantage of the current changes in the The Investment Division ended the year with a book value of investment banking environment and is growing its 220.6 million 2004 191.9 million.
The market value was revenues rapidly.
During the year realisations generated 61.2 million, producing profits of LMS invested 2.5 million in a private placement in late 2004 17.9 million 2004 7.5 million.
The disposals included a and is one of the largest institutional shareholders.
number of companies held in fund portfolios, several quoted The investment is held at cost and LMS fully diluted oilfield service stocks, Ridgeway Systems and Software, shareholding is 6%.
They also included the disposal by Citizen Limited Vio Worldwide Limited Rebranded Inflexion of the Ster Century cinema chain and most of its in 2005 as Vio The Digital Supply Chain the company holding in ANT Limited.
is a provider of software solutions to the printing, New investment during the year totalled 72.9 million, of which publishing and graphics arts industries, with many of the UKs just over one third was into funds, one third was follow-on leading printers, newspaper and magazine publishers amongst financing for existing companies and the balance was its customers.
These cover a range of sectors, The company has taken a proactive role in the development including technology Penguin Computing and ModViz Inc. and adoption of industry standards and has used these to in the US and investment banking Merriman Curhan Ford deliver automated large-file transportation and advertising & Co. in the US and Bridgewell Group Limited in the UK.
Following the acquisition of software Inflexion Fund 2 invested in three buyout transactions in company Portland PMS Limited, Vio now also provides the UK Healthcare Knowledge International, Harrington solutions that automate the production and population Brooks trading as All Clear Finance and Ilchester Cheese from databases of adverts and catalogues.
LMS first invested in Vio in 2002 after the company had Organisation and management been acquired from BT.
LMS has 9.4 million invested, held Last year we began the process of extending the management at cost.
LMS fully diluted shareholding is 84%.
and reorganising the structure of the Investment Division.
Cityspace Limited Cityspace provides digital urban The first step was the acquisition in February 2004 of a infrastructure solutions.
Cityspace networks now exist in over 58.8% stake in Inflexion plc, an AIM-traded private equity 20 UK cities as well as Brussels, Gothenburg and Moscow.
They provide street level access to modern digital services Shortly before the year end a further step in the restructuring of working with local authorities, transportation systems and the Division was taken with the formation of San Francisco wireless operators.
SFEP is managed by Scott Potter, who In the last year, Cityspace has made good progress across joined us at the beginning of 2003 as our US Investment the business.
Highlights include the launch of the largest Director.
It will be our principal vehicle for direct investment in Wi-Fi hotzone in the UK covering Bristol city centre, the launch the US and most of the existing direct investments there have of a card based transaction network, Quickomat, in Sweden been transferred into the new fund.
and the first trials of Cityspace Multipoint, a combined UK portfolio ATM and iPlus terminal.
AssetHouse Technology Limited AssetHouse is a LMS has 9.8 million invested in Cityspace, which is held software and services company providing solutions to at cost.
The first investment was made in 1995.
LMS fully telecommunications providers to enable the packaging and diluted shareholding is 75%.
14 London Merchant Securities plc Inflexion During the year Inflexion plc invested 9.0 million in three UK mid-market buy-out transactions.
In April 2004 Inflexion led the 13 million management buy-out of Healthcare Knowledge International Ltd, the leading provider of value-added healthcare information services to hospitals in the UK and Spain.
Inflexion Fund 2 invested 2.8 million and Inflexion plc co-invested 1.5 million.
London Merchant Securities plc 15 ITS ITS specialises in high quality fabrication of equipment for the energy and water treatment industries, with a particular expertise in steam generation technology.
With its joint venture partner it has successfully built and demonstrated a commercial scale plant for the recovery of heavy oil deposits using rapid thermal processing technology.
CopperEye Limited CopperEye is a provider of a Entuity closed the year with record revenues and its largest revolutionary patented data indexing technology that single licence sale.
In addition the company has successfully delivers dramatic increase in data loading performance.
The increased the size of contracts for which it is bidding technology is applicable to relational databases and many and winning.
The company is continuing to invest in additional data intensive software applications.
sales and marketing resources to further exploit its proven technology.
Entuity continues to focus its efforts on the LMS first invested in CopperEye in 2001 and, at year end, US market.
LMS had 4.5 million invested in the company and has since invested a further 1.0 million.
The investment is held at cost.
LMS has 7.0 million invested in Entuity, which is held at LMS fully diluted shareholding is 57%.
The first investment was made in 2000.
LMS fully diluted shareholding is 68%.
Corizon Limited Corizon provides software and services to enable enterprises to make better use of existing software First Index Group Inc. First Index provides sourcing services applications.
Their products bring together applications to to the global custom manufactured parts industry.
First Index create new user processes designed to improve productivity.
sell products and services which allow major OEM manufacturers to identify, qualify and then obtain quotes from Corizon has had a successful year.
It has continued to add value new suppliers, often in low cost countries such as China, to its customers by increasing the number of projects where the India and Mexico.
First Index also provides suppliers with Corizon suite is being used.
Customers have measured real a subscription based lead service to access quotes from productivity improvements as a result.
The company has added OEM manufacturers.
sales resources to expand its reach, predominantly in the UK.
Revenues have grown by over 100%, year on year.
The company has significantly increased sales resources focused on selling to large US OEMs.
The results of this effort are likely LMS has 3.8 million invested in Corizon, which is held at to be seen in 2005 06.
Further development of the low cost a book value of 1.8 million.
LMS fully diluted shareholding country sourcing network has taken place with increased is 39%.
resources in China and Eastern Europe.
Elateral Holdings Limited Elateral is a provider of software LMS has 4.8 million invested in First Index, which is held and services that automate the production of printed and at cost.
LMS electronic marketing communications collateral.
The Elateral fully diluted shareholding is 40%.
application is delivered to customers as a hosted Software-as-aService solution.
The companys customers include global 7 Holdings Limited parent of 7 Global Limited brand owners such as Nike, Cisco and Sony.
7 Holdings is the UKs leading provider of hosting services for software vendors providing  via its LMS first invested in Elateral in 2000 and has 7.0 million, subsidiary 7 Global.
invested in the company, held at 1.9 million.
LMS fully diluted shareholding is 37%.
7 Global is experiencing a significant increase in activity level amongst software vendors offering .
Energy Cranes International ECI Based in Aberdeen and The global software industry is increasingly turning to this Houston, ECI provides crane operation and management form of delivery to provide a long-term annuity revenue services to the offshore energy industry and also manufactures stream and to lower the total cost of ownership for customers.
cranes under the American Aero and Titan brands.
It is the 7 Globals strategy is to be partner of choice in the UK and largest business of its type in the world and is well positioned to it has recently received accreditation from Microsoft as a provide the professional management of crane operations, Gold Certified Partner.
including health and safety, which is required by the global offshore industry.
ECI has turnover of approximately LMS has invested 14.4 million in 7 Holdings, which is held 80 million and EBITDA of around 5 million.
LMS first invested in 7 Holdings in 2000.
LMS fully diluted shareholding is 79%.
LMS has 18.7 million invested in ECI, which is held at cost.
LMS fully diluted shareholding is 95%.
ProStrakan Group plc ProStrakan is an emerging pharmaceutical company.
ProStrakans principal business is Entuity Limited Entuity develops and markets Eye of the the commercialisation, discovery, research and development Storm, an enterprise network management software suite.
The group, which is headquartered The product provides real-time visibility of fault, performance in Galashiels, Scotland currently employs 270 people and and resource allocation across an entire corporate network.
generated pro forma product sales in 2004 of approximately 27 million.
16 London Merchant Securities plc Operating Review Investment Penguin Penguin is both a supplier of Linux servers, used principally in clusters for high performance computing, and, through its Skyld Software subsidiary, a leading vendor of cluster management software.
It generated revenues of over $20 million in 2004 and is growing rapidly, with a strong customer base in public institutions and major corporations in the US.
LMS has 19.3 million invested in ProStrakan, held at cost with growing an asset management business.
It has doubled revenues a fully diluted shareholding of approximately 9%.
LMS every year since starting in 2000. supported the company since its first venture capital round in LMS invested $6 million 3.3 million in August 2004 in a 1999.
10 million was invested in 2004 05 as part of an PIPE transaction.
LMS fully diluted shareholding is 8%.
institutional funding round, following the acquisition of Proskelia, in August 2004.
Proskelia was spun out of Aventis Method Products Inc Based in San Francisco, Method was in 2002 and adds significant drug discovery and development established in 2000 to use design, fragrance and skills as well as a strong pipeline, predominantly in the bone environmentally friendly ingredients to redefine the area, to the Group.
It has subsequently expanded into other product areas such as laundry and air The Group has an established and growing speciality sales freshners.
Method has been very successful in gaining and marketing organisation principally in the UK, France, Spain distribution in key retail outlets in the US, particularly and Germany.
This provides a strong channel for growing sales Target and most recently Walmart.
of existing products and for future other product launches such as Tostrex for the treatment of male hypogonadism and LMS initially invested $475,000 in Method in late 2003 and Rectogesic for the treatment of pain associated with chronic in December 2004 led a new funding round, investing a further anal fissures.
ProStrakans strategy is to build an international $4 million total investment 2.4 million, held at cost.
pharmaceutical company that is cash-generative, profitable LMS fully diluted shareholding is 9%.
ModViz Inc. ModViz produces software which enables the Wesupply Limited Wesupply is a leading provider of supply visualisation of output from Linux clusters, where very large chain execution management software which is delivered to its computing power is required, such as modelling oil and gas customers as a hosted  solution which reservoirs and medical imaging.
The software is currently being allows rapid implementation and leads to fast pay-back.
evaluated by several major oil companies, together with significant channel partners.
The Wesupply application is used by a manufacturer to enable closer integration and collaboration between itself LMS invested $1million 550,000 in 2004.
LMS fully and its customers suppliers.
The companys products are very diluted shareholding is 22%.
widely applicable and are used by customers in building Penguin Computing Penguin is both a supplier of materials wholesale, manufacturing, beverages, industrial, CPG Linux servers, used principally in clusters for high consumer packaged goods and automotive industries.
performance computing, and, through its Skyld Software LMS first invested in Wesupply in 2000 and has 10.0 million subsidiary, a leading vendor of cluster management software.
LMS fully diluted shareholding It generated revenues of over $20 million in 2004 and is is 75%.
growing rapidly, with a strong customer base in public institutions and major corporations in the US.
US Portfolio LMS led a funding round in October 2004, investing $5 million ITS ITS specialises in high quality fabrication of equipment 2.7 million.
LMS fully diluted shareholding is 22%.
for the energy and water treatment industries, with a particular expertise in steam generation technology.
It has strategic Rave Motion Pictures Rave builds and operates stadium partnerships with a number of process development companies cinema mega-plexes 12 to 20 screens principally in the in the oil and gas and alternative energy industries, including southern and mid-western United States.
The theatre building a joint venture which has successfully built and demonstrated programme is continuing and there are 18 theatres open a commercial scale plant for the recovery of heavy oil deposits with several more under construction or evaluation.
Revenue using rapid thermal processing technology.
in 2004 was about $100 million with significant growth expected in 2005.
LMS has 8.3 million invested in ITS, which is held at cost.
LMS fully diluted shareholding is 93%.
LMS invested $10 million 5.8 million in Rave in 2002.
LMS fully diluted shareholding is 14%.
Merriman Curhan Ford & Co MCF Corporation.
MCF is a San Francisco-based investment bank, quoted on the Investment Division Outlook The outlook for the American Stock Exchange, which in a short period has created Investment Division is favourable and the portfolio is on track a strong franchise not only in technology stocks but in several for successful realisations, with the greater part of the value other growth sectors.
It has taken advantage of the opportunity being achieved in two to three years time.
The steps taken to created by the disappearance of several of the traditional west restructure and extend the management of the operation have coast investment banking firms.
In addition to its research, had positive results and we intend to continue this process securities broking, and corporate finance activities, MCF is now during the year ahead.
London Merchant Securities plc Operating Review Investment 17 Focus on ProStrakan: A maturing investment 18 London Merchant Securities plc Operating Review Investment ProStrakans strategy is to build an international pharmaceutical company that is cash-generative, profitable and sustainable.
This is to be achieved through selecting: major geographical markets and targeting specialist physicians: attractive products with growth potential of a scale appropriate to its resources: and the means of bringing new products to market.
Such new products may come from ProStrakans own product pipeline or may be in-licensed or acquired from third parties.
New products Strong management ProStrakans discovery and development portfolio ProStrakan has an experienced management currently comprises six products undergoing clinical team with a proven track record in building trials and a number of pre-clinical projects and pharmaceutical businesses and integrating acquisitions.
This pipeline is supported by The management team has demonstrated its ability to ProStrakans expertise in bone biology and medicinal add value through organic growth as well as through and steroid chemistry.
acquisitions and product in-licensing activities.
London Merchant Securities plc Operating Review Investment 19
