Group Chief Executives Operating Review Kate Swann returning to prof tability The Group made important progress during the year with all our businesses During the course of this year we identied a further 18m of cost savings delivering strong profit growth.
Despite the unhelpful consumer spending that we will deliver as we make additional changes in support areas such climate, Group profit before tax from continuing operations, excluding as shared information systems and logistics.
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, increased by 59 per cent to 73m.
The total Group profit before tax was 64m 2004: loss of 135m.
Margin growth is an important part of our return to profitability and more than 50 per cent of the margin improvement we have delivered this year has WHSmith News made steady progress with profit growth of 6 per cent driven come from a positive shift in product mix.
By switching sales from low margin by good cost control and continued focus on service development.
Travel categories like entertainment to higher margin categories like stationery, Retail delivered strong profit growth of 24 per cent and good sales growth we can deliver overall profit growth without relying on top line sales growth.
High Street Retail improved its profitability by 87 per cent Our new basics stationery compared with last year.
Our staff have worked hard to manage costs tightly, We have also grown margins by improving promotions and buying terms as range offers customers bigger packs at better value.
implement initiatives to increase product availability and choice, and to raise well as improving the retail basics.
Two of the key retail basics we have focused The basics range was store standards.
Customer response to these changes has been positive.
on are product shrinkage and markdown management.
introduced ready for the back-to-school period and includes pads, paper, pens High Street Retail In terms of shrinkage we focused on reducing losses in the worst one and recordable media.
Last summer we outlined our plans to turnaround the performance of our hundred stores, particularly looking at the entertainment category.
The High Street business by focusing on the retail basics, rebuilding authority team delivered the target of a 10 per cent reduction in shrinkage and also in our core categories, optimising margins and controlling costs.
After the completed audits of all stores.
We have reduced the overall level of stock first full year implementing the turnaround plan we have made significant we hold in the business by 4 per cent year-on-year and we have managed The plan we outlined progress and the businesss profitability has increased by 87 per cent.
our stock markdowns much more effectively.
The changes we have made in terms of moving to a performance management culture mean there last year to deliver value Sales for the year were down 3 per cent in a challenging trading environment is now clear accountability for stock, both centrally and in-store.
to shareholders required where consumer spending slowed, particularly in the second half of the year.
In the first half of the year our planned focus on profitable promotions We have made good progress operationally during the year, although I us to make progress on impacted sales but benefited profitability.
would be the first to acknowledge that there is still a great deal more to do.
many fronts and over As part of the turnaround plan, we outlined a target of 30m of cost savings Availability for the top six hundred products is now in excess of 95 per cent.
the course of this year over three years.
We planned to save half of the 30m target this year and In books, we have made significant changes in the end-to-end supply chain, we have done that.
the remainder over the following two years.
I am pleased to report that we to allow stores to carry additional range at no additional stock holding cost.
have delivered this years savings faster than planned and by the year end Within our stationery had achieved savings of 18m.
We have invested 12.5m in a new EPOS tilling system, which has been departments we sell a wide range of own-brand rolled out to all stores.
This system will enable us to implement Chip & Pin and branded pencils and We have done this in a number of ways.
We completed the restructure of across the estate and reduce transaction time for customers, which is pens to suit all ages.
Whether you are writing a letter to our head ofce, which delivered savings of 8.5m year-on-year.
In our stores particularly important over Christmas.
It will also enable us to carry out a friend, learning to draw Our ranges of fashion we have improved productivity by giving our managers further training on more detailed, forensic analysis of shrinkage and be more exible with or starting school, our pens stationery are designed to and pencils will help you.
cater for different ages and planning, organising and supervising their teams.
This has delivered a saving our promotions.
Nearly three million coloured trends.
During the year we of 3m year-on-year.
We have achieved savings by improving staff exibility and lead pencils were sold launched 23 different ranges by WHSmith last year.
including Purple Bloom so that we have the right staff working in-store when they are needed most.
We are also investing in developing our people to make sure we have a and Candy Stripe, designed There were a number of stores where our most knowledgeable staff worked exclusively for WHSmith, as pipeline of talent who are equipped to deliver our future business plans.
well as licensed brands such from Monday to Friday and infrequent Saturdays.
We have changed this so We currently have two hundred and sixty individuals on two programmes as Bratz and The Simpsons.
that our most experienced staff are well represented in-store on Saturdays, that will fast track people to supervisor and store manager positions.
We have also delivered significant savings in logistics, information systems and marketing, as well as reducing the costs associated with the in-store set up of Christmas.
Business underlying profit profitability is operating profit before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and dened benefit pension service costs.
4 WH Smith PLC 5 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Group Chief Executives Operating Review Kate Swann rebuilding authority in our core categories Over the course of the year we have made some key changes to our product In news and magazines we already have a leading position that we will build categories.
Many of these changes can be seen in stationery.
We have focused on implementing category promotions and improving synonymous with stationery and our customers expect us to have the most our ranges.
For example a very successful promotion this year has been the authoritative range on the high street.
Our stationery range now includes Mag & offer whereby with the purchase of any magazine, customers can buy many more price points from value lines at one end to premium lines at selected confectionery or drink product for half its usual price.
the success of previous Bookazines, a cross between a book and a magazine, we expanded the range.
They have proved very popular with customers, for We have added in missing essential products such as archiving and storage, example Fred Dibnah Remembered was one of our top selling titles for a number including the Snopake, Really Useful Storage, Centurion and Acco brands and of weeks in the category.
To improve our range we have also added more childrens correspondence.
We have also continued to launch new fashion products into our impulse category.
stationery ranges including Punky Fish, Animal and Bratz.
Travel Retail In stores where we have excess space we are also testing new ranges that Our Travel business has had a good year and delivered strong profit growth complement our existing stationery offer.
For example, we have introduced of 24 per cent from good sales growth, margin growth and tightly controlling Whether heading back to During the year we have school, college or university rebalanced entertainment to new ranges for the home ofce and new art and craft materials for all the its costs.
or if you just want to freshen faster growing subcategories family.
We will roll out successful elements of these trials once we are up the home ofce, we have like DVD.
Our best-selling put together new collections, DVDs this year were Little satisfied they deliver the return on investment we require.
In our airport stores we have delivered strong sales growth of 7 per cent, with beautiful designs, Britain, Spiderman 2, Troy 2 per cent ahead of passenger growth, from improving the range of products alongside popular licensed and Harry Potter and the brands, on our stationery Prisoner of Azkaban.
In the coming year we will build on the work we have started in books and we sell.
For instance, in April we tested a wide range of healthy option snacks ranges.
make further changes to increase product choice and our authority as a and product extensions to our sandwich range to include pastries, salads specialist retailer in books.
We have made some initial changes aimed at and desserts.
Our customers liked these changes so we will be rolling them improving our range and the operational infrastructure.
We have increased out to other stores in the autumn of this year.
the density of xtures in our book departments so we can stock more books in the same space.
We have also reviewed our ranges to make sure We have also reviewed our promotional activity so that our promotions are The publication of Feel: Robbie Williams, by Chris the books we stock meet our customers expectations and we have put more targeted for either airport or railway stores.
We know that customers Heath in September 2004, in place clear processes for ongoing range reviews.
going on ights drink more water than customers travelling by train so we revealed a grippingly honest story of an extraordinary man.
Strong promotional offers have tailored our offers by product to reect this difference and consequently Truly original, Feel was hugely underpin our customer Clearly the books category is highly competitive but we are confident we we are seeing good sales uplifts.
popular with WHSmith proposition and improve customers and was one our competitiveness.
can rebuild our position as Britains most popular bookseller.
We know of our best-selling books that where our offer is compelling we compete effectively with other book In railway stores, sales for the year were at.
Sales were affected in July of the year.
For instance, over Christmas we achieved excellent market shares, following the London bombings.
We saw an immediate impact on sales all in excess of 30 per cent, according to Bookscan, on top titles like Robbie in London station stores and other urban conurbations as passengers Williams Feel, Sheila Hancock The Two of Us and Michael Palin Himalaya.
cancelled non-essential travel or took other forms of transport.
The business Similarly, we held our market share for Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, responded quickly to manage its costs and partially mitigated the impact the most competitive book launch of the year, and achieved in excess of half on the businesss profitability.
Staff in all areas of our business also reacted a million pre-orders for it.
Overall our book sales during the year fell by 2 per extremely professionally in what was a very traumatic and difficult situation.
In the first half of the year, book sales fell by 3 per cent, as we did not repeat the previous years unprofitable promotions.
In the second half of To improve our performance, particularly in regional rail stores, we have the year book sales were down by 1 per cent year-on-year following our strong been working on a number of initiatives.
We have rolled out key elements performance in the market with Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.
of the trial work we began at Kings Cross last year to increase the density of our xtures, so we can stock more lines in the same space.
This is particularly In entertainment we have rebalanced our space so that more of it is given important for lines that sell very quickly as customers can nd what they are to growing entertainment subcategories like DVD.
In doing this we are looking for more easily, store staff spend less time restocking shelves and developing a strong consumer proposition, underpinned by strong more time making sure the queues move faster.
As well as having a best-selling book in 2004, Robbie Williamss promotional offers that improve our competitiveness.
Greatest Hits was our number one selling album last Christmas.
WHSmith achieved pre-sales Keane and the Scissor Sisters in excess of half a million also released albums in 2004 Business underlying profit profitability is operating profit before exceptional items, copies for Harry Potter and which were hugely popular with goodwill amortisation and dened benefit pension service costs.
the Half-Blood Prince our our customers and made it onto biggest ever pre-sale event.
6 WH Smith PLC 7 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Group Chief Executives Operating Review Kate Swann continuing business improvements We have also begun to trial a number of new layouts aimed at dedicating We have consolidated our distribution network further into new purposeOur wide range of childrens WHSmith News delivers more space to faster growing, more profitable categories like drinks and built sites.
These sites incorporate industry-leading technology, such as Pick books has something for all to customers seven days ages, from toddlers to prea week, 364 days per year.
We are still assessing the full effect of these layout changes and Pack machinery, and can better accommodate large delivery vehicles school and education books We deliver 50 million but early signs from our Leicester and Birmingham New Street stores are thereby improving our customer service and reducing our costs.
All of our to help them through their newspapers and magazines school years.
Harry Potter every week to outlets encouraging and we have seen positive sales swings.
We will continue to operations in the North East of England are now delivered out of our and the Half-Blood Prince ranging from corner shops assess the data from these trials and we will implement successful elements central distribution centre in Newcastle.
In the Thames Valley area the was our best-selling and convenience stores childrens book last year.
to supermarkets and in other stores.
network has been consolidated into Slough and in the West Midlands all garage forecourts.
our activities have been consolidated into Wednesbury.
In 80 of our railway stores we have invested this year in new till systems EPOS and we are seeing positive results in terms of reducing shrinkage We have improved our service to retailers by leveraging our SAP investment The Da Vinci Code by Dan and improving our forecasting.
We anticipate further efficiencies from and developing sales-based replenishment.
Sales-based replenishment Brown was the WHSmith Book of the Year at the 2005 this investment in the future.
improves product availability and reduces excess copy in stores as products British Book Awards.
This are replenished based on their rate of sale.
We tested the new hardware and title spent a number of months in 2004 at the top The Travel business has also been successful in winning new business copy management tools with large retailers and key independent retailers of the best-seller charts during the year.
We opened two WHSmith stores and a specialist bookstore, over the course of the year and we are planning for a national roll out to all worldwide and during the year WHSmith sold over WHSmith Books, for the first time at London Luton airport.
We also WHSmith Newss locations this year.
We are looking at other ways to leverage 400,000 copies of the converted an existing site at Gatwicks North Terminal into a specialist our skills and technological assets further with third parties, so we can paperback version.
bookstore and we will be opening a further WHSmith Books store at provide additional services to our customers.
We are pleased with the performance of our specialist bookstores and by next spring we will operate six in total.
With regard to contract renewals, we have re-secured key contracts with Trinity Mirror and the Daily Mail, for an average of three years, and we are WHSmith News in negotiations with a number of other newspaper publishers.
We have also Our News business has operated in a challenging market this year with renewed contracts with the key magazine distributors for an average of five By investing in new EPOS a combination of slowing consumer spending, rising fuel prices and the years.
This is a good result, particularly as negotiations for all parties were we have reduced queuing During the year we have uncertainty created by the OFT review of the newspaper and magazine time in-store by an average doubled the amount of more difficult than in prior years as the OFT enquiry added a dimension of six seconds.
space given to cards, which supply chain.
Against this backdrop the business delivered a good result of uncertainty to the entire industry.
is the equivalent to opening an additional 540 card with profitability up by 6 per cent to 37m.
Total sales were at at 1,187m departments.
Outlook stores now sell a range of 7,500 cards.
Our best-selling The plan we outlined last year to deliver value to shareholders required us to musical sound card is Newspaper revenues increased by 1 per cent.
The volume of newspapers make progress on many fronts and over the course of this year we have done Cliff Richard.
sold declined, however price increases and targeted marketing activities, that, first focusing on getting the retail basics right and then on developing particularly with book promotions, increased sales.
the most strategically attractive categories.
Magazine sales were at for the year, inuenced by a number of factors.
New Our aim is to rebuild our position as Britains most popular bookseller, weekly titles such as Reveal and Pick Me Up, among others, were launched and newsagent and stationer by increasing our authority in our core categories, their strong performances offset a decline in the sales of monthly magazines.
re-engineering our ranges to the faster growing, more profitable categories, The number of part work and one-shot magazines also declined, following improving the way we use our space and ensuring we are focused on the an exceptionally strong performance last year.
Days Out vouchers are needs of our customers.
This is all built on the foundations of sound The womens weekly just one of the new products magazine sector has operational performance and delivering the retail basics consistently we have launched in-store.
These vouchers are exclusive Of course controlling costs and ensuring we continuously improve our magazine was the biggest across the business.
to WHSmith and redeemable selling weekly magazine service to retailers and publishers remain key areas of focus, and during at over 80 fantastic at WHSmith this year.
the year we have made some good progress.
Our staff have worked extremely hard this year and they can be proud of what we have achieved.
Trading conditions on the high street remain challenging and while it is still early days in our recovery and much remains to be done, we are on track to deliver value to shareholders.
Kate Swann Business underlying profit profitability is operating profit before exceptional items, Group Chief Executive goodwill amortisation and dened benefit pension service costs.
13 October 2005 8 WH Smith PLC 9 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Board of Directors Corporate Responsibility Review maximising targeting our shareholder value key impacts We are committed to managing the impact our business has on society and Chairman Executive Directors the environment and work to maximise the positive impact wherever we can.
In addition, we recognise that effective management of social, environmental Robert Walker joined the Board Kate Swann is Group Chief Alan Stewart is Group Finance and ethical issues can help us to identify and manage risks as well as develop as a non-executive director Executive and joined the Director and joined the Board new commercial opportunities.
in January 2005 and became Board in November 2003. in March 2005.
He joined Chairman on 1 February 2005.
She started her career at Thomas Cook UK Limited in The following pages provide a summary of key actions over the last year, He was Group Chief Executive Tesco PLC before moving 1998 as Group Treasurer and together with objectives for the year ahead.
The review is divided into of Severn Trent Plc from to positions at Homepride was appointed Chief Financial four subject areas: community, marketplace, workplace and environment.
August 2000 until January Foods, Coca-Cola Schweppes officer in the same year.
In A full Corporate Responsibility CR review is available on our website 2005, having joined as Deputy and Dixons Stores Group.
She 2001 he was appointed Chief at www.
Chief Executive in July 1999. then worked for Homebase, Executive of Thomas Cook UK He previously worked for ultimately as Managing Limited and became a member This year saw a full review of the key CR risks and opportunities for the Procter & Gamble, McKinsey Director, before becoming of the Thomas Cook AG business.
The revised CR strategy and performance targets were approved & Co and, for over 20 years, Managing Director of Argos Board.
He is a non-executive by the Board.
She is a director of Games Workshop is Chairman of Williams Lea non-executive director of Group PLC.
A Board director has accountability for each CR area and senior executives Group Limited and a nonLambert Howarth Group plc.
Aged 45. in our News and Retail businesses are tasked with ensuring we deliver our executive director of Wolseley Aged 40.
Executive ownership of CR extends to the quarterly review plc and Signet Group plc.
of performance against targets, with annual performance reviews submitted Aged 60. to the Board.
CR management process Non-Executive Directors Agree objectives Review risks John Barton is a non-executive Mike Ellis is a non-executive Luke Mayhew is a non-executive MT Rainey is a non-executive and understand and targets director and joined the Board director and joined the Board director and joined the Board director and joined the Board stakeholder views in November 1999.
She is Chairman as Chairman of Jardine Lloyd Finance Director of HBOS plc Director of John Lewis from of the Marketing Group of Thompson Group PLC in from 2001 to 2004.
Prior to 2000 to 2004, prior to which, Great Britain and was formerly December 2001, having formerly this, for 14 years, he worked from 1992 to 2000, he was Chairman of advertising agency been the Chief Executive of in a number of senior Development Director of the Rainey Kelly Campbell Roalfe Quarterly review Jardine Insurance Brokers executive positions at Halifax John Lewis Partnership.
He Y&R, part of the WPP Group.
Board review of performance Group PLC.
He is Chairman plc and was appointed Chief is Chairman of Pets at Home She is also a non-executive WHSmiths ranking in the of performance against targets Business in the Community of Wellington Underwriting plc Operating officer in 1999.
Group Limited, Chairman of director of SMG plc, a Visiting Corporate Responsibility Index and a non-executive director of He is Chairman of Fund Bank Store Holdings Limited, Professor at the University of improved from 122 to 74.
Benchmarking our performance Hammerson plc and Next plc.
and a non-executive director Glasgow Business School, and WHSmiths ranking in the Business in the Community Corporate Aged 61.
Aged 54. of Brambles Industries plc.
a Trustee of think tank Demos Responsibility Index improved from 122 to 74.
Aged 52. and the charity Timebank.
WHSmith continues to be included in the FTSE4Good Index.
WHSmith is included in the Aged 50.
The FTSE4Good Indices are designed to measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised Board Committees corporate responsibility standards, and to facilitate investment in those companies.
Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee It also provides a reference Mike Ellis Chairman Robert Walker Chairman John Barton Chairman point for companies wishing to achieve best practice John Barton John Barton Luke Mayhew in corporate responsibility Luke Mayhew MT Rainey MT Rainey standards.
10 WH Smith PLC 11 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility Review Community Marketplace WHSmith community contributions 2004 05 Our community investment continues to focus on supporting education WHSmith takes its responsibility for the products it sells seriously.
This year, in line with our Per Cent Club commitments, supply high-quality products that are produced by people working in decent 2.
Gifts in kind 25,640 we continued to invest over 1 per cent of our pre-tax profits in charity and 3.
Staff time conditions with minimal possible impact on the environment.
This is the management costs community projects.
We joined the London Benchmarking Group LBG focus for our supply chain management activity.
3 2 245,000 and have adopted the LBG reporting model which provides a standardised way of managing and measuring our community involvement.
We are committed to making our Supplier Code of Conduct and Forest Sourcing policy an integral part of our buying decisions.
This year, we Our community investment falls into three areas: trained buyers on the role they should play, notably the need to consider ethical trading issues in critical path planning.
We also established a review WHSmith has adopted the Partnership with the WHSmith Trust group, comprising senior buyers, quality and corporate responsibility London Benchmarking Group WHSmith provides essential management, marketing, communications LBG reporting model which functions to oversee performance and agree actions on ethical trading provides a standardised way and fundraising support for the WHSmith Trust.
This year, the Company has and forest sourcing.
of managing and measuring our community involvement.
worked in partnership with the Trust using our combined resources and skills to leverage greater community benefit.
Investor engagement on ethical trading Ethical trading We continue to engage with our suppliers to promote improved labour We met with Insight Investment to During the summer we worked with the WHSmith Trust and the National discuss our management of ethical standards and better environmental management.
Our 24 month rolling Literacy Trust to deliver the Reading is Fundamental Summer Read, trading issues.
The winter 2004 edition audit cycle monitors supplier compliance with our Code of Conduct.
This The WHSmith Trust is an aimed at maintaining literacy levels and making children enthusiastic about of the Insight Investor Responsibility Bulletin year, 64 supplier factory audits were carried out by an independent third independent registered reading.
Over 2,500 children took part in the 39 Summer Read events charity registered charity no.
party, the majority of these in China.
After each audit, we agree a corrective included the following report on 1013782.
This year the Trust across the country.
the meeting: action plan with the factory management.
Resources and engagement focus adopted a new strategy to deliver two objectives: is on suppliers in the Far East who provide us with WHSmith branded to support the local An evaluation of the projects achievements is available at WHSmith has good governance, policy product, with priority given to suppliers rated high and medium risk.
communities in which WHSmith staff and www.
The WHSmith Trust and the Company want and systems in place to manage ethical customers live and to build on the success of this years scheme and will provide funding and trading issues, which have not been Twenty six high-value own-brand UK suppliers were also assessed to check work: and to support education and support for Summer Reads in 2006 and 2007. compromised despite recent restructuring they have a process in place for monitoring labour standards in their own lifelong learning, helping its extensive sourcing from China will supply chains.
people of any age to achieve their educational Employees making a difference in their local communities likely continue to pose significant ethical potential.
Our staff play a vital role in supporting the local communities in which trading challenges.
The companys active As members of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI, and specically through For further details of the Trusts work, see we operate.
Actions are often on a small scale, but the cumulative effect involvement in the ETI and commitment the ETI China Working Group, we continue to work with other members to www.
Typical examples include the donation of Christmas gifts to proactive engagement with suppliers share best practice and develop solutions to the challenges we all face.
to a local shelter by our Leeds store and the donation of stock to a local should go some way to addressing them.
school by our Minehead store.
Forest sourcing Our revised Forest Sourcing policy was approved by the Board.
The policy Products to support charity and education sets out our objective that all virgin i. e. non-recycled material used in our We sell a number of products, ranging from Christmas cards to DVDs, which products should come from known, legal, well-managed and credibly provide customers with a convenient way to support their favourite charities, certied forests.
To achieve this objective, we have: as well as giving the charities an opportunity to reach a new audience.
Continued our membership of the WWF-UK Forest & Trade Network These products have raised money for charities including Cancer Research, that works with UK companies to improve forest management around the RSPCA and Children in Need.
Our charity toner cartridge recycling the world.
The National Literacy Trust The WWF-UK Forest & scheme is raising money for Tommys the baby charity.
In addition, Extended our annual supplier survey on forest sourcing to cover is an independent charity Trade Network works with WHSmith Educational Achievement Rewards provide a tool for teachers key suppliers of paper and wood products in the Far East as well as in dedicated to building a UK companies to improve literate nation.
forest management around to recognise pupils achievements and encourage good behaviour.
This years return covered over 70 per cent of the volume of the the world.
details are available at www.
own-brand paper and wood products we sell and helped us identify the suppliers to prioritise for engagement.
Targets for 2005 06 include: Provided suppliers with guidance notes outlining the issues to consider Work in partnership with the WHSmith Trust to deliver two significant when sourcing timber or paper from China, Finland and Russia.
Increased the number of recycled and Forest Stewardship Council FSC Establish a scheme to recognise and reward staff for outstanding work certied products we sell in-store.
in the community and to share best practice.
Increase the range of products we sell which support charities.
Over 2,500 children took part This year we introduced in the Summer Read events new recycled stationery this summer, a partnership ranges in-store including between the National Literacy writing paper, notepads Trust, the WHSmith Trust and envelopes.
12 WH Smith PLC 13 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility Review Customer service standards Training and developing our staff Diversity prole: WHSmith Group Customer Focus is one of our core business values and underpins The specialist training and development team in WHSmith Retail focuses All employees everything we do.
Increased focus on retail standards in our High Street on helping staff develop the skills to deliver their objectives and help people 1.
Male 1 business has translated into improvements in our mystery shopper scores to reach their potential.
Female and a reduction in the number of customer contacts into our central customer service centre.
Highlights from 2004 05 include: Training provision doubled within WHSmith Retail.
Our News business carries out twice yearly customer surveys to assess Launch of an easy-to-use training and development intranet site to raise 2 customer service standards.
We publish the findings alongside details of staff awareness of the resources available, so they can take an active part the actions we will take in response.
The survey results can be found at in requesting training.
co. uk and form the basis of the customer service action Launch of a Career Development Framework for High Street store staff Senior management plan with performance incentives for individual employees based on delivery to support succession planning and provide a clear route map showing 1.
Male of the required improvements.
1 how a member of staff can progress from one role to another.
Female Development of a 360 feedback process for our top 100 leaders which Targets for 2005 06 include: is aligned to our Values and Leadership behaviours.
The Forest Stewardship Council FSC is an Incorporate ethical trading and forest sourcing into the job specications international network 2 of key buyers.
Valuing diversity to promote responsible management of the Appoint a specialist internal audit team in our Asian sourcing operation We want all our employees to contribute as much as they can to the business worlds forests.
Its product to strengthen our engagement with suppliers on labour standards and and its success.
Our equal opportunities and diversity policies outline our label allows consumers to recognise products forestry issues.
commitment that all employees should be treated with respect and dignity that support the growth Work with two key Far East suppliers to improve the way they manage with peoples differences valued and recognised in everything that we do.
health and safety and human resources.
Hold workshops for 15 key UK own-brand suppliers to raise awareness Targets for 2005 06 include: of WHSmiths ethical trading and forest sourcing requirements, Further embed the values in our business culture in head ofce and providing practical tools to help them improve standards.
stores through the launch of a tool for managers to send an immediate Maintain the data coverage of our forest source survey at 70 per cent message to positively recognise staff who demonstrate the values.
of the volume of all own-brand paper and wood products or increase Launch a Fast Track Development programme for store supervisors.
Develop a Coaching and Mentoring programme for senior executives.
Pilot at least three new lines of recycled or FSC certied stationery Fill 50 per cent of the store manager vacancies in our high street stores to test the commercial opportunities.
Set up a Diversity Working Group to develop initiatives and policies Workplace concerning gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity and disability.
Embedding our values within the business culture WHSmith values Keep the customer Tenacity for ambitious Last year, we adopted four key business values: Customer Focus, Drive for Health and safety at the heart of and competitive results Results, Value Our People and Accountability.
As part of our three year plan all that we do delivered The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of health and safety with pace to embed the values fully throughout the business, this year we focused on in the business.
Customer Drive raising awareness, helping staff understand what the values mean and how Focus For Results to apply them in their role.
Management teams in each business, supported by professional safety advisers Value Our Accountability People from the Group Risk and Occupational Health department, monitor key Our people are respected and Take personal In November we launched the Values in Practice or VIP scheme for safety performance indicators and an annual report of each business valued in an honest, responsibility and all High Street, Travel and Group head ofce employees to recognise open environment deliver what we say we will detailing trends, performance and recommendations is presented to individuals and teams who are demonstrating the values in their work.
Each business also has a properly constituted health and safety Awards were also made to those store staff who are outstanding role committee that comprises employees representatives, management, trade models in living the values.
Accidents and injuries The values are used as a key part of our recruitment and training Rate per 100,000 employees programmes and our performance management process.
Every member 2005 2004 2003 of staff, from Board level down, has their performance assessed against Major injuries 86 76 132 the values.
Injuries resulting in over 3 days absence from work 557 628 439 Communicating with and engaging our staff Recent changes within the business make it more important than ever All RIDDORS 643 704 571 that all employees feel engaged in delivering our turnaround plan.
We The number of accidents legally reportable under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations.
have substantially improved the quality and effectiveness of our internal communications to update and inform staff on business performance.
Eye-catching posters raise staff awareness of the Companys values.
We collect feedback to measure the effectiveness of every communication event we hold so that we can continue to make improvements.
14 WH Smith PLC 15 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005
