Operating review China: Wong Shuiling, Managing Director, Croda China Around the world in 80 years Croda is increasing its global presence in 2006 with the opening of a new sales office in Shenzhen, China, under the In its 80th year of existence, Croda has become a truly global company.
Though management of Wong Shuiling, who is pictured outside the new office building.
founded in 1925, it wasnt until 1968 that Croda became Croda International Establishing a direct presence is critical to Crodas development of this a name which was, at the time, a triumph of prescience over reality.
Total sales in 1968 were 27m with exports from the UK at 3.2m.
Croda operated in eight overseas countries, but two were small raw material depots and one was a nascent joint venture in Japan.
The majority of overseas sales were in North America.
Today there are Croda operations in 26 countries throughout Europe, the Americas, Asia and Africa.
We have modern manufacturing plants in the UK, France, USA, Brazil, Singapore and Japan.
For We continued our successful cash generation the first time in our history over half of the employees are based resulting in excellent trading flows and the net outside of the UK.
Our highly skilled, technical marketing network 21.8m buy back of shares into treasury.
Capital is a vital support to our global customer base and is the envy of expenditure was unusually low.
This is a great our competitors.
As with all things in Croda, innovation is the key.
tribute to the ingenuity and dedication of our Our managers are local, speaking the language of the customer engineering and plant personnel worldwide who in the most important markets of the world.
Our communication Mike Humphrey managed once again to give the Company all Group Chief Executive and distribution network anticipates the globalisation of our target the required extra capacity at very low cost.
In markets, so that we are ready to support and sell into our customers support of our many new projects, we anticipate global expansion.
Indigenous customers are cherished and are a return to more normal levels of capital supported with the latest technology wherever they are in the world.
Croda expenditure in 2006. exports over 75% of its UK production and overseas sales are now 87% of global turnover.
We sell products from UK plants into Japan, from Japan into Sales in the UK from continuing businesses France, from France into the USA, from the USA into Brazil, from Brazil into were flat with sales in the rest of Europe up Singapore and from Singapore into the UK.
We have a global manufacturing TODAY THERE ARE by nearly 10%, with good growth in the larger footprint and we make products where its best for the business and best for CRODA OPERATIONS IN 26 markets of Germany, France and Italy.
COUNTRIES THROUGHOUT Sales in the Americas were up nearly 15%, This global approach has produced a record result for 2005.
Sales from EUROPE, THE AMERICAS, with excellent growth in the USA, Brazil and continuing operations were up by 8.8% 7.6% in constant currency and ASIA AND AFRICA.
pre-tax profits increased by over 14% to an all time high.
Excluding Japan, Asian sales grew by 17% led In the face of strong headwinds from escalating energy costs and rising raw by strong performances in China, Korea and material prices, we continued to achieve strong margins.
Sales were down in Japan as we exited positive to profits.
Our investment in new products increased, and the new some low margin, high volume import business.
Enterprise Technologies initiative will launch products in two major new areas Sales in the Middle East rebounded from a in early 2006.
These are innovative inorganic sunscreens and a new range of poor 2004.
Our weakest areas were Africa and polymers for the Personal and Health Care markets sectors where Croda has Australasia and sales were flat in both regions.
4 Operating review Operating review 5 Global people Spain: Jos M Torres, Managing Director, Croda Ibrica Crodas Spanish operation was established in 1998 with Jos as MD and is located in Barcelona.
Jos is pictured standing in front Our focus on Personal Care once again proved successful, with excellent Personal Care is our largest market sector.
There of Antonio Gaudis Casa Batll, which is set growth in our largest sector.
Health Care sales grew, but more slowly than was strong, profitable growth in all our product to host the In-Cosmetics trade exhibition previous years due to temporary plant difficulties in the second half of 2005. in April 2006, at which Croda will seek to sectors including Sederma and in all our target build upon its ever increasing presence These were quickly resolved and we expect a return to the high levels of growth geographic markets.
A record number of new in the global personal care markets.
We also achieved welcome growth in Plastics Additives product launches will support future growth whilst maintaining our improved margins.
possibilities for this ever changing market.
During the year, we closed the small manufacturing plant at Moss Bank, In Health Care, sales were only slightly ahead, Widnes and outsourced the manufacture of a minor product range.
due to some plant difficulties leading to supply We also announced that we would exit the Application Chemicals issues in the third quarter.
These problems, business which operates in the demanding markets of steel and relating to higher value products, were resolved engineering.
This will take place during the first half of 2006.
We and we are back on track for the planned level of have also begun the process of selling our associate company, growth.
There has been much activity at our major Baxenden Chemicals.
target pharmaceutical accounts and we expect more trial results in 2006.
A number of new Following the successful roll-out of our SAP system in the USA, products being launched and new processes the implementation at Sederma was completed successfully.
being implemented should underpin future new The global roll-out will be complete when Croda Japan goes live business plans.
This steady and successful ERP implementation is a credit to the talented in-house team.
After the rapid growth in recent times, Home Care sales were also flat.
Successful new product The continuous expansion of our vital R & D teams resulted in more launches were counterbalanced by slower sales successful new products and processes which will add much value going in some of the more traditional products.
At the same time we expanded our global sales and marketing projects underway should return this segment network with new management in China and a new operation to its recent growth path.
In Europe, we moved forward strongly with the Consumer Care notable exception of the UK, where the customer The core business performed strongly in 2005, with sales base continues to slowly shrink.
In all the other up by over 10% and operating profit rising by 8.1%.
On major countries we saw a strong performance.
Latin America: Laura Mills, continuing operations it accounts for 68% of Group The manufacturing units increased output, Sales Director, Croda Miami turnover and over 85% of operating profit.
The margin improved productivity and kept a close control of over 21% once again supports our view that it is a of costs.
The European R & D teams continued Croda Miami opened in 1993 and is responsible true speciality business, driven by innovation and a their successful record in creating profitable new for developing and managing Crodas business in Latin America.
Laura is pictured in front of desire to add value for customers worldwide.
La Casa Del Florero, the colonial house in performance is a tribute to the effort of the global Bogota, Colombia which was the focal point teams as it was achieved in the context of a very of the fight for Colombian independence in unfavourable climate of cost increases in energy the early 19th century.
Having sold in Latin America for over 17 years, Laura is well and a number of key raw materials.
placed to tap into the undoubted potential of the market.
6 Operating review Operating review 7 USA: Denise Gabriele, VP Sales and Marketing, Sederma Inc The Groups purchase of Sederma gave us a dedicated sales presence in the key US market alongside the established oleochemicals business.
Denise, pictured outside the Product Evaluation Center in Edison, NJ, joined Sederma Inc in 1988 and has been a key contributor to Global reach the divisions growth in recent years.
In the USA, sales were pleasingly ahead achieving a new record after a good year in 2004.
The successful introduction of SAP will make this unit more efficient and customer responsive as we move forward.
Sales in Latin America were excellent, led by Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela.
New capacity in our Brazilian plant should enable further gains to be made in 2006.
The North American Technical Centre, established in 2004, had a strong year for new product introductions, with an increasing number of projects in the pipeline.
In Asia, our Singapore operation had a record year and sales increased across the region apart from in Japan.
We exited some high volume, low margin import business which reduced sales.
However, an emphasis on higher value products produced a record profit.
We accelerated our growth in China.
A new management team and the new headquarters and technical support centre to be opened in May 2006 will support future growth.
India: Ashish Shinde, Once again, a number of major consumer care companies increased Managing Director, Croda India in size by acquisition.
In spite of this, our largest global customer Summary Croda first established a presence in India in represents less than 3.5% of sales and the top ten customers By every measure of profit, this was a record 1995, however this presence was significantly represent less than 20% of global turnover.
Our presence in strong year for Croda.
The strength of the global expanded in 2003 with the opening of a new global brands increased and at the same time we sold to more network, the quality of our R & D, the robustness sales office in Mumbai, headed by Ashish Shinde.
Ashish is pictured second from right on a recent customers as we increased our penetration in developing markets.
of our manufacturing units and the dedication visit to a Kolkatta based customer with David of Croda people produced this fine result.
Cherry, Sales and Marketing Director Industrial Specialities Polymer Additives, and two members This sector performed well, led by a good result from Plastics Additives.
With the worldwide focus on innovation in of the customers buying team.
Sales grew by almost 6% and profits on continuing operations grew by everything we do and impetus from our 64% as the product mix improved as we continued the move away from Enterprise Technologies initiative, we expect lower margin business.
In Plastics Additives, sales increased and margins more progress in the future.
were maintained in a very competitive environment.
Selling prices were successfully increased in the wake of soaring energy costs and rising As Barbara Richmond leaves us after nine exciting prices for rapeseed oil.
The new additive for PET bottles is being trialled at years, I would just like to thank her on behalf of a number of major targets in Europe and Asia, following the achievement all at Croda for the fantastic job she has done as of European Food Contact approval.
US approval is expected in 2006.
We wish her well for the future.
On a personal note I will miss her for her hard Seatons again had a reasonable year with the deliberate loss of low work, her ingenuity, her sense of fun and her margin, high volume commodities replaced by higher margin, lower sheer energy.
In Croda Food Services, sales moved forward well, but rising raw material prices kept profits flat.
Mike Humphrey Group Chief Executive 8 Operating review Operating review 9 Financial review Taxation Sales moved ahead again in 2005, by 8.8%, a further year of sales growth The tax rate of 35.8% on continuing operations We expect capital expenditure to increase to profits reflects the generation of a significant more normal levels in 2006.
We also intend to by the ongoing businesses.
As a consequence of the introduction of IFRS, amount of our earnings overseas in countries continue the buy-back of shares into treasury in in 2005 we changed the segmentation of our results in line with the where the rate of corporation tax is higher than order to improve our cost of capital, whilst at the in the UK.
same time ensuring we have the capacity for markets we serve and the features of those markets.
appropriate acquisitions, which will deliver Discontinued operations shareholder value.
The new segments are Consumer Care comprising Personal Care, Health Care The discontinued operations comprise two and Home Care and Industrial Specialities comprising Plastics Additives and businesses.
Firstly our rolling oils and rust Treasury all other markets.
These new segments reflect the long term risk and return preventives business, Croda Application The Groups treasury policies are approved by the profiles of the markets in which we operate.
Chemicals, which is in the process of being Board and subject to regular reporting and review.
closed with certain product lines being Sales in the Consumer Care segment rose 10%, with volumes up by a similar sold.
Secondly, we are in the process The main financial risks faced by the Group percentage.
Personal Care was the principal driver of this growth.
As we of selling the shares in our associate relate to currency, interest rates and the continue to reduce sales of commodity products, volumes in Industrial company, Baxenden Chemicals Limited availability of capital.
In value terms, however, sales actually based in Accrington, Lancashire.
increased by almost 6% due to the consequent improvement in the mix As far as currency risk is concerned, transaction of products we sell.
Dividends risk is hedged up to three months forward by As earnings continue to grow strongly the use of foreign currency bank balances and Currency had very little influence on trading in 2005, increasing and we have good cash generation, we forward currency contracts.
Translation currency sales by 1% and having almost no effect on profits.
are able again to increase dividends by exposure is not hedged but the risk is reduced 13.5 26 more than the rate of inflation whilst at the by matching interest expense to foreign currency Operating margins remained strong in Consumer Care same time increasing our dividend cover.
earnings where it is efficient to do so.
24 13.0 at over 20% and rose in Industrial Specialities as we grew 22 the Plastics Additives business and improved the mix.
Accordingly, it is proposed the final dividend is In terms of interest rate risk, the policy is to maintain 20 12.5 Barbara Richmond increased by 7% to 9p making a total of 13.35p at least half of the Groups gross borrowings at 18 Group Finance Director Interest 2004 12.5p.
At this level dividend cover in total floating interest rates, with interest rate swaps 12.0 16 pence pence Net interest expense in 2005 was the same as in 2004, is raised to 1.9 times from 1.8 in 2004. being used where appropriate.
14 11.5 with the benefit of the reduction in net debt in the first 12 half offset by the increase in the second half as our Cash In 2003 the UK regulations on the market purchase 11.0 10 share buy-back progressed.
The combination of good trading performance and holding of up to 10% of a companys own 8 and lower capital expenditure generated 15.5m shares Treasury Shares were amended to 10.5 6 of cash in 2005 before taking into account the enable companies to achieve more flexibility on 10.0 4 share buy-back.
their levels of debt and equity and thus their cost 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 of capital.
This gives us an additional means of The effect of the share buy-back in 2005 was managing our balance sheet when considered Dividends per share Earnings per share pre-exceptional a purchase of 6.1 million shares at an average appropriate by your Board.
price of 398p amounting to 24.5m, offset by 2.7m of cash inflow for shares re-issued under employee share schemes which had been purchased in the market by the Company and held in trust.
The net cash outflow in the year from share transactions was, therefore, 21.8m.
The total purchased since the buy-back began in 2004 amounts to 30.9m.
10 Financial review Financial review 11 Global performance IFRS Pensions As you will no doubt be aware, we are now required to produce our accounts Following the transition to IFRS, this years As with most UK companies we are currently in accordance with IFRS.
We published a detailed transition statement on IFRS financial statements recognise pension costs, working with the trustees of our UK defined on 1 June 2005 and our half year results were also prepared in accordance assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 19, benefit schemes to agree our scheme specific with IFRS.
The principal impact of the change to IFRS was on the balance which provides a very different method of funding plans and investment policies.
These sheet, due to the inclusion of the IAS 19 deficit on the pension fund which is accounting than that previously applied by the plans will determine the ongoing funding of explained below.
Whilst IAS 19 usually the schemes and the timing of additional cash results in a more predictable pension cost at contributions for deficit reduction.
Once those The net impact on pre-tax profits in 2005 of the change to IFRS was only the operating level and, at least for the following plans have been finalised the Company will small, with the principal difference being a charge of 1.1m in respect year at the financing level, it potentially introduces disclose their results.
We do not expect the of the Groups employee share schemes 2004 0.6m.
more volatility in the balance sheet.
After providing outcome of these discussions to have a material for the related deferred tax asset, our net IAS 19 effect on cash flow in the short term as any pension liability at 31 December 2005 was deficit reduction will be spread over time.
Our cash contribution to our pension schemes worldwide in 2005 was 8.7m 2004 9.6m.
Given the rise in the stock market in 2005 and our trustees policy of investing the majority of The income statement charge for 2005 and the our pension funds assets in equities one might estimated charge for 2006 for all our pension have expected to see a reduction in our net schemes are presented in the table below.
However, 2005 saw a further 26 70 significant fall in the corporate bond yield used 24 2006 2005 60 to calculate our pension liabilities for IAS 19 22 Estimate Actual purposes, which resulted in those liabilities m m 20 50 increasing by more than the assets.
Although 18 Before operating profit 6.5 5.9 the net liability has increased, our funding level 40 16 the ratio of assets to liabilities has improved Financing 3.0 0.4 % m 14 from 74% to 77% as measured under IAS 19.
30 Net cost before tax 3.5 5.5 12 10 20 By their very nature pension funds are for the 8 long term and the choice of investments and You will note that whilst the reduction in corporate 10 funding decisions should be viewed as such, bond yields in 2005 had an adverse impact on 6 and not be driven by short term volatility in the our liabilities at the end of that year, the lower 4 0 value of assets or liabilities.
At various times rate will benefit our financing cost in 2006.
01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 during the year, using the IAS 19 defined rate, Returned on Net debt our liabilities were up to 55m lower than as Barbara Richmond capital employed measured at 31 December 2005, and indeed Group Finance Director were 25m lower as recently as 31 October 2005.
12 Financial review Financial review 13 Safety, Health and the Environment SHE Croda International Safety, Health and the Environment policy The Group controls its business by the delegation Indicators of SHE performance Croda International Plc is a manufacturer of speciality chemicals for the consumer care and of much of its management responsibility, including The Group SHE department has issued a industrial specialities markets employing approximately 1,600 people worldwide.
The Company SHE matters, to its divisional managing directors number of internal Group SHE objectives operates its business in a manner which actively seeks to prevent or minimise the possibility of and general managers.
since 2000 against which the manufacturing its operations causing harm to people, plants or animals.
We strive to provide the material and sites have been required to produce targets resources to educate and involve every individual in the Company in achieving this objective.
The overall strategy, development of policy and to report progress at regular intervals.
and review of SHE performance within the It is my belief that aspiring to excellence in the management of Safety, Health and the Group is controlled by the Group SHE steering In 2001 the Group published several safety, health Environment is vital to ensuring the long term future and profitability of the Company.
committee with assistance from the Group SHE and environmental targets.
Progress against department in setting standards, providing these targets was discussed in detail in the 2003 Principles: guidance, brokering best practice and auditing annual report and in view of the progress made, the sites against national standards as well as the opportunity was taken to withdraw targets 1.
We believe that all accidents, incidents and 6.
We will continue to innovate in order to our own internal standards.
achieved or restate original targets with stretch work related ill health are preventable and we improve our products and processes so targets and initiate new ones where appropriate.
will manage our business with this aim, including that their effect on safety, health and the A Group Environmental Management System In doing so reference was made to the HSE the provision of adequate resources for the environment is reduced.
GEMS was implemented in 1995 to provide targets as stated in Revitalising Health and prevention and control of major accidents.
We will continue to improve communication sites with a framework upon which their individual Safety and to the Chemical Industries Association 2.
Because we are human, mistakes will be made: and the exchange of views with employees, environmental management systems could be Responsible Care targets.
The newly stated but because we are committed, intelligent employee representatives, customers, developed.
Sites have been regularly audited targets use the performance in 2003 as the human beings we will investigate to identify contractors, suppliers, neighbours and any for compliance with GEMS and all established baseline for improvement.
the basic causes and take action to prevent other individual or organisation affected by manufacturing sites have now been certified these mistakes being repeated.
Where necessary the objectives and targets have been re-based on current operations 3.
As an absolute minimum we will comply with all Similarly a Health and Safety audit based upon manufacturing at the end of 2005.
In the national regulations but in addition will set our We have assessed the significant safety, health and Heath and Safety Executive HSE guidelines situation of one site being assimilated into own demanding internal corporate standards environmental hazards posed by the Companys has been performed regularly by Group SHE another, the statistics of both sites combined on matters relating to safety, health and the activities and an appropriate set of arrangements on all manufacturing sites.
The results of these have been retained.
environment and endeavour to comply with has been implemented to control these hazards.
audits are used to focus the Group SHE initiatives them throughout our international operations.
The effectiveness of these arrangements is and the annual Group SHE objectives.
monitored and reviewed on a regular basis with 4.
Divisional management teams within the action taken to redress any deficiencies and Company will be measured for their contribution The audit process, used by the Group SHE ensure continuous improvement.
to the continuous improvement of safety, department to audit the manufacturing sites, has health and environmental performance in been externally validated by BSI in 2004 as being Mike Humphrey their area of responsibility.
in accordance with ISO 19011 auditing standards.
We will continue to search out new ways of Director responsible for SHE conserving all the natural resources used in our processes.
14 Safety, Health and the Environment Safety, Health and the Environment 15
