TECHNICAL & COMMERCIAL DIRECTOR STUART M PATON Review of Operations North Sea operations North Sea are the Companys engine room, and are NORTH SEA PRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT focused on low risk Danas eleven producing North Sea fields In the Central North Sea, the Greater eld developments accounted for some 91% of total Group Kittiwake Area GKA Dana 50% remains production in 2005, delivering an average a key area of investment focus for Dana with scheduled to double of 17,901 boepd, an increase of nearly 10% three oil fields now in production and over the equivalent period in 2004 16,338 a fourth under development.
The Kittiwake the Companys boepd.
Oil constituted approximately 83% field itself continues to benefit from average annual of this volume averaged over the year.
production optimisation initiatives to provide a solid foundation for the satellite fields.
production within In the Northern North Sea, Dana added These include the Mallard field, where a high quality oil production and reserves new water injection well was drilled with the next two years.
through both commercial and organic spectacular success, re-energising the field routes in 2005.
In March, the Company to deliver at rates of up to 13,000 bopd.
increased its interest in the Hudson oil The Gadwall oil field was brought on stream field to 47.5% by exchanging its non-core, in April 2005, and has performed well.
Indonesian pre-development gas interests A subsequent water injection well, for an additional 28% interest in Hudson.
designed to maintain production levels Dana was also appointed as operator of the and boost reserves, was therefore drilled Hudson field following approval by the joint in the Gadwall field in early 2006 and venture group and the UK government.
Since acquisition, production has been generally above expectations.
Development of the Goosander oil field as the third GKA satellite is underway, having A detailed subsurface analysis of the achieved final development sanction in Hudson field is now nearing completion January 2006.
First oil is targeted for the and has yielded some attractive infill drilling third quarter of 2006.
A further water targets, the first of which will be drilled once injection well designed to increase recovery a drilling rig becomes available.
A review efficiency in the northern area of the of how the development of the recently Mallard field is also under consideration discovered South Melville area can be for 2006.
Development options for the integrated with future Hudson drilling remaining satellite fields, Grouse, Durward is also underway.
and Dauntless, are also under review for implementation in 2007 08 with further A well workover and re-completion campaign appraisal drilling at Grouse likely to be was successfully completed on the Otter field recommended prior to final commitment.
Dana 19.0%, opening up new reservoir The potential for tying back other fields sands and boosting oil production from the currently outside of the GKA also exists.
As a result, further infield In particular this is likely to include the activity is now planned to commence in April Christian field, located in Block 21 20 2006 with two well workovers and a sidetrack directly to the east of the GKA, in which of a water injection well designed to increase Dana has recently agreed to acquire sweep efficiency.
Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 13 Elsewhere in the Central North Sea, an intense development programme.
The development of the trans-median Enoch field Cavendish gas field Dana 25% is on track Dana 8.8% is progressing, having received to commence production in Q4 2006, having approval from both the UK and Norwegian recently achieved partner and government governments in 2005.
First oil is expected to development approval.
The exchange flow in the third quarter of 2006. transaction agreed with Gaz fide France in Development planning for the Barbara gas November 2005 would, once completed, field has also commenced following the recent add further production from the Anglia and ASSET MANAGER, NORTH SEA drilling success to the east, with a view to Johnston gas fields.
ALAN WALKER commencing production in 2008.
Factors under consideration include the benefits of Further infill well locations in the Johnston further appraisal drilling in the Barbara area field have been identified for drilling in late and the potential to undertake a larger joint 2006 2007 alongside a potential development development of Barbara with the neighbouring of the smaller Gunn gas field to the south Phyllis gas field, operated by Shell.
If the forthcoming appraisal of the Babbage gas field Dana 40% is Infill drilling and well workovers continue to successful, it too could move forward to an produce positive results on the Claymore oil early development sanction.
Dana is also field Dana 7.5% and further workovers and actively progressing engineering studies on a new infill well are planned in the Banff oil the Monkwell gas field Dana 100% targeting field Dana 12.4% with a target to maintain near-term gas production as a subsea tie-back UK EXPLORATION MANAGER production at current levels.
to the BP operated Cleeton gas processing COLIN PERCIVAL and transportation infrastructure.
In the Southern North Sea, Dana grew its gas production base in 2005 with the acquisition NORTH SEA EXPLORATION of a 27.8% interest in the Johnston gas field AND APPRAISAL followed by the successful Johnston appraisal Danas 2005 exploration and appraisal drilling well.
After sidetracking and completing campaign delivered three successes from this well as a horizontal gas producer it five wells.
The programme began positively was brought on stream towards the end of with the discovery in March of the South November, initially more than doubling the Melville oil accumulation Dana 26.6%, total Johnston field production potential.
located just six kilometres to the south of the In the Dutch sector, the F16-E gas field Hudson field, where Dana now operates the Dana 1.2% was also brought on stream production infrastructure.
The next two wells in the programme were Looking forward, the UK Southern Basin is also successful.
Firstly, a well situated expected to become an increasingly important one and a half kilometres to the east of component of Danas North Sea business with the Barbara discovery well, confirmed 14 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report an extension of the field into neighbouring appraise the historic 211 23-11 discovery well, field where two exploration wells are planned Block 23 16b and earned Dana a 40% stake which tested at rates of nearly 9,000 bopd in in 2007 to test the Colden Parva and Scolty in this block through a farm-in agreement.
1992, and to test the eastern end of the large gas prospects subject to rig availability.
With The Barbara field is now believed to extend Causeway prospect which extends across the Cavendish gas field expected on stream over three Central North Sea blocks where, Blocks 211 22 and 211 23.
Should this well be towards the end of 2006, the first of a number overall, Dana holds the majority stake Dana successful, it is planned to test the western end of exploration wells in this area can also be approximately 65% and is therefore well of the prospect, in Block 211 22, in 2007. anticipated in 2007.
Offshore the Netherlands, placed to drive the project forward as operator.
an exploration well is planned in 2006 to test Further Northern North Sea exploration wells are Secondly, a well drilled nearly seven kilometres the DF gas prospect in Block E18a Dana 5% also being planned for 2007 and 2008.
These to the south-east of the currently producing once development drilling activity is completed include the J1 prospect Dana 25%, a potential area of the Johnston gas field Dana 27.8% on the neighbouring F16-E gas field.
A further satellite to the BP operated Magnus oil field, also confirmed the presence of additional prospect, FS, is expected to be drilled in 2007. and satellite prospects to the Hudson oil field hydrocarbons and hence a significant new Dana 47.5% and Otter oil field Dana 19%.
This well was sidetracked SHETLAND-FAROE BASIN In the Central North Sea, further appraisal to become a horizontal producer which was In the UKCS 23rd Round, Dana was awarded wells may be required ahead of finalising brought on stream at high rates in the fourth licences covering a large area in the highly development plans for the Barbara field Dana quarter of 2005. prospective West of Shetland region.
The Group approximately 65% and the Grouse field Dana was awarded three licences comprising 18 50% with these wells likely to occur in the The fourth exploration well of 2005, Fiacre, blocks, of which 17 are in Quads 208 and 209 second half of 2006 and 2007 respectively.
As tested an interesting, dual Jurassic Forties play in the Faroe-Shetland Basin Dana 30% where the largest shareholder in Faroe Petroleum plc in Block 23 11 Dana 80%, to the north of the a large volume of 3D seismic data has been FP, Dana will also be interested in any success Barbara field.
The deeper Jurassic sandstone recently acquired.
Preliminary interpretation from the exploration well to be drilled by FP to target was found to be present as predicted of this data is encouraging with a number of test a prospect in the Halibut Horst area, to the and of good reservoir quality, but water bearing.
obvious leads identified as future drilling targets, north of the Claymore field.
However, the shallower Forties sandstones were possibly as early as 2007.
Block 204 14b In the Southern North Sea, Dana built a strong found to be hydrocarbon bearing and, whilst Dana 30% was also awarded to Dana and the position in and around the Johnston gas field the recoverable volumes present at this location Company has subsequently acquired a 30% and related infrastructure in 2005 through a are estimated to be small and non-commercial, interest in the neighbouring Block 204 13. combination of acquisitions and the award these results provide encouragement for further Both these blocks lie in the prolific Foinaven of two blocks in this area in the UKCS 23rd appraisal of the block.
Sub-Basin to the north of the producing Licencing Round.
These deals included the Foinaven and Schiehallion oil fields and contain acquisition of a 40% interest in the Babbage The final well of 2005 was drilled to test the the large Tornado prospect which is also gas field which has the potential to contain up to Clachnaben oil prospect Dana 50% in Block targeted for drilling in 2007.
390 billion cubic feet of gas-in-place.
Following 211 22 in the Northern North Sea.
Although These directly held licences complement Danas acquisition, a key appraisal well will now some oil shows were observed, the reservoir Danas existing exposure to the Shetland-Faroe be drilled on Babbage in the first half of 2006, sands were interpreted to be predominantly Basin through its 17.2% shareholding in Faroe targeting the crestal area of the reservoir in water bearing.
Further exploration drilling in Petroleum plc FP.
FP holds an extensive order to confirm reservoir productivity ahead of this area of the Northern North Sea is planned licence position in both UK and Faroese waters a development decision.
A dual objective well will be drilled in where it plans to drill the Brugdan prospect 100% interest in and around the Monkwell gas neighbouring Block 211 23 Dana 21% to both in 2006.
Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 15 Review of Operations International SOUTHERN MAURITANIA AND SENEGAL Following encouragement from the electromagnetic surveys conducted in Block 1 offshore Mauritania Dana 60% earlier in 2005, an exploration well to test the Faucon prospect was drilled in December.
This well found 46 feet of net hydrocarbon bearing Cretaceous sandstone in two intervals above a further 270 feet of potential sandstone reservoir.
Hydrocarbon fluid samples recovered from the well, together with an in-depth analysis of log data, currently suggest that Faucon has discovered a predominantly gas accumulation with gas in place volumes in the region of 200 billion cubic feet.
Although the volume of gas encountered in this first well would not justify near term development on a stand alone basis, this discovery is very important, having proven a working petroleum system in this greatly underexplored region of southern Mauritania.
The gas encountered is believed to have been generated from a deeper source rock than that generating oil and gas further to the north and thermal modelling indicates that this new source is mature across most of this southern region of offshore Mauritania.
The Cretaceous sands intersected at Faucon have also demonstrated that significant potential reservoir sand is available to facilitate much larger discoveries in this play fairway.
The well results therefore provide enormous encouragement for the additional prospects already identified in Block 1, such as Petrel, and also for the future exploration of Danas neighbouring licence interests, namely Block 2 Dana 6.25% immediately to the north and the St. Louis Block in Senegal Dana 30% which adjoins Block 1 to the south.
Given this encouragement, Dana has entered the second exploration period for Block 1 thereby committing to drill one further exploration well, which will probably test the 16 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report MANAGER, INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS & NEW VENTURES Petrel prospect in 2007.
A further well is also structures.
A large 3D seismic survey was JOHN DOWNEY expected in Block 2 in 2007.
Based on the therefore acquired in late 2005 early 2006 with interpretation of the Faucon-1 well results, it has a view to firming up drilling targets from leads been concluded that it will be beneficial to acquire identified from the earlier 2D seismic.
This data 3D seismic in the St Louis Block before drilling an will allow Dana to make an informed decision on exploration well in Senegal.
This survey is likely to whether or not to enter the second exploration commence in late 2006 probably in combination period in September 2007 and commit to an with an incremental survey covering the southern exploration well in 2008. area of Block 1.
KENYA NORTHERN MAURITANIA Interpretation of an infill 2D seismic survey acquired in early 2005 confirmed the presence of In 2005, Dana made good progress with the OPERATIONS MANAGER interpretation of the large 3D seismic surveys very attractive exploration prospects in Blocks L5 PAUL GRIFFIN and L7 offshore Kenya, and preparations are now acquired in Block 7 Dana 63.85% and Block 8 Dana 41.5% offshore northern Mauritania with underway to drill a well in each of these Blocks around the end of 2006 utilising the Chikyu encouraging results.
The Group has consequently elected to enter the second exploration period deepwater drillship.
The first well is likely to target the Pemboo prospect, in Block L5, and for Block 8 and agreements have been executed to contract the Atwood Hunter drilling rig to drill the second well the Sokwe prospect, in Block L7.
Both of these prospects have the potential to a well in each of these blocks in 3Q 2006.
The first of these wells will test the very large Flamant contain over one billion barrels of oil equivalent.
Dana holds an attractive commercial position in prospect in Block 8 which detailed seismic interpretation indicates has the potential for gas Blocks L5 and L7, with two thirds of the costs associated with its 30% interest being carried in place exceeding 6 trillion cubic feet.
This will be followed by a further well in Block 7, which will by operator Woodside Energy.
utilise the additional 3D seismic data acquired updip and inshore of the Pelican gas discovery made by Dana with its first Block 7 well in late 2003.
Alongside this exploration activity, discussions Four of the upcoming have begun with companies able to assist Dana in establishing a route to commercialise the exploration wells will large volumes of gas being discovered offshore target very large Mauritania, probably through a liquefied natural gas LNG scheme.
These plans will be reviewed prospects offshore and amended as necessary once the results of the aforementioned two exploration wells are known.
Mauritania and Kenya, each with company MOROCCO Dana gained entry to the Moroccan Atlantic transforming potential.
Margin in 2005, by securing a 26.25% interest in a new eight year exploration licence, NW Safi Offshore.
This block is in an area of offshore Morocco where preliminary indications from recently acquired 2D seismic are very encouraging, revealing numerous pronounced Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 17 18 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report Dana has secured exciting new exploration prospects in Egypt and Morocco where the opportunity exists for our technical and commercial teams to build a material new oil and gas asset base COMMERCIAL MANAGER DAVID KNOWLES EGYPT AUSTRALIA Dana has recently taken a number of steps to Offshore South Australia, Dana holds an commence building a material new business interest in exploration permits EPP 28, EPP in Egypt.
Subject to regulatory approval 29, EPP 30 and EPP 31 located in the Great and partner and Government consent, Dana Australian Bight.
These cover a vast area expects to acquire a 20% interest in the of approximately 65,000 sq.
in which a South Feiran block from CEPSA in the near number of sizable leads have already been future.
The South Feiran block is located identified.
Following a 2D seismic survey in the Gulf of Suez, which remains a highly completed over EPP 31 in January 2005, prospective region with established production acquisition of a large 3D seismic survey over infrastructure.
With Danas support, a the most promising leads has recently been significant 3D seismic survey was acquired completed.
Exploration drilling in this area over the block in early 2006 with a view to is currently targeted for 2008.
RUSSIA The exchange transaction agreed with Gaz The South Vat-Yoganskoye oil field Dana fide France in November 2005, if successfully 80% is now Danas principal asset in Western completed, will deliver a further asset in Egypt Siberia following the sale of the Companys in the form of a 30% interest in the West minority investment in the Evikhon joint El Burullus concession in the Nile Delta.
Production Dana also expects to be an active participant from the field averaged 1,782 bopd in 2005, in bid groups in forthcoming Egyptian representing 9% of total Group production.
These levels are in line with the forecast for the field in its natural decline and a review of opportunities to boost production at South Vat-Yoganskoye through infill drilling is ongoing.
Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 19
