An excellent performance Operational review in both the Currency and Security Paper and Print Security Products activities contributed to the strong divisional operating result.
Security Paper and Print 2004 2005 2003 2004 change The Currency business ended the year with a strong m m m order book which provides good visibility for the first half year.
Sales 317.9 340.3 22.4 Demand for the latest technology in anti-counterfeit Underlying operating profit 45.6 42.4 3.2 solutions is still a key driver in the market.
The Before exceptional income of 1.2m 2003 2004 : 10.0m charge proliferation of colour copying, scanning and printing and amortisation of negative goodwill of 0.5m 2003 2004 : 0.5m.
technologies means that we continue to develop anticounterfeit solutions such as wide threads, holographic devices and iridescent features.
By combining its know-how of thread manufacture, expertise in papermaking and skill in design, fide La Rue has produced a ground breaking new security feature to protect banknotes against the full range of modern counterfeiting techniques.
Optiks is a high technology, high value product which combines the best of traditional paper making with new materials and techniques to Currency create a world first in banknote design.
The Currency business had another excellent year, despite reduced volumes in both banknote printing Optiks takes wide thread technology into the future.
and paper, following the completion of the exceptional The feature is a prominent 18mm wide demetallised Iraq order in 2003 04.
Banknote printing volumes were thread with customised images with a distinctive see down 8 per cent 2003 2004 : increase of 14 per cent, through aperture.
In transmission the images in the the reduction having been significantly mitigated by thread are clearly visible.
the benefit of both high backlog orders, improved work mix and a high level of overspill.
Banknote paper Security Products volumes were down 15 per cent 2003 2004 : increase The Security Products business in particular of 38 per cent, but benefited from both improved performed well.
The key restructuring actions manufacturing efficiency and increased orders for announced in November 2003, including the closure high specification paper, requiring more sophisticated of the Peterborough and Byfleet manufacturing sites, banknote threads.
The former Bank of England were completed during the second half, together with works at Debden continued to perform in line with the final exit and sale of the High Wycombe site.
08 fide La Rue Annual Report Operational review - 4.7m 14% This year, we launched Optiks, Reduction initiatives this year run across The cost reduction programme initiated a ground breaking new security all businesses in Security Paper and Print in Security Products in 2003 2004 has thread feature with a distinctive have seen a 4.7m fall in stock levels, a resulted in a more efficient business.
This year we have seen a 14% year on year productivity improvement when measured by sales per employee.
The completion of the manufacturing rationalisation, The solution adopted incorporated fide La Rues high the exit from unprofitable activities and the volume security anti-counterfeit features with a web enabled benefits of increased sales and marketing investment authentication database, which can track individual in authentication labels, fiscal stamps and passports fiscal stamps throughout the supply chain.
We see this all contributed to improved results.
integrated approach as a model approach for similar revenue protection schemes throughout the world.
During the year we implemented a leading edge fiscal stamp project for a customer in the Far East.
Inventory Reduction in Malta Currencys Malta banknote facility has recently utilised value stream mapping tools to enable it to reduce inventory stocks and optimise product flow through the factory.
Through process improvement initiatives, new measurement techniques and setting internal targets the facility has reduced buffer stocks between processes and eliminated unnecessary paper and ink stocks.
In just six months the project team has achieved reductions in stock days of over 20 per cent.
At the same time the factory has importantly maintained its on time in full delivery targets at 100 per cent.
Currency is now conducting similar exercises at its other four banknote printing facilities.
fide La Rue Annual Report Operational review 09 In December 2004, Operational review we announced a major Cash Systems reorganisation of the Cash Systems division aimed at lowering the cost base and establishing a clear focus on improved manufacturing productivity.
Volumes for Teller Cash Dispensers declined m m m throughout the mature continental European markets.
However, we saw volume growth in the Teller Cash Sales 302.2 302.6 0.4 Recycler markets in both Europe and North America, despite increased competition from new entrants.
Underlying operating profit 9.2 8.8 0.4 The North American market, to which our products Before exceptional items of 25.8m 2003 2004 : 11.3m are well suited, continues to be the principal focus for and goodwill amortisation of 1.9m 2003 2004 : 2.6m.
During the year both the USA and Canada grew in line with our expectations and, as we continue to see potential for further penetration in these markets going forward, we will increase our marketing investment.
Sorter volumes were significantly down on last year in what is becoming an increasingly competitive environment.
The units new management team is actively working to reduce the cost base of the business, while maintaining product development, Divisional Results in order to capitalise particularly on growth from Cash Systems full year revenues of 302.2m were emerging markets such as India, Russia and Brazil.
ahead of last year, excluding adverse translational The business remains a core part of our Currency exchange differences of 10.7m.
Underlying operating offering to Central Banks.
profits of 9.2m were in line with our expectations and 4.5 per cent ahead of last years result, primarily driven The OEM and Desktop Products businesses performed by savings from the ongoing cost reduction programmes.
in line with our expectations for these mature This was achieved despite significantly adverse foreign businesses.
Our focus continues to be to drive exchange impacts, in particular relating to transaction productivity improvements and lower our structural cost differences between the US$ and the Swedish Krona, base in order to deliver products at competitive prices.
Operating cash flow was strong and substantially ahead of last year, driven by Following the restructuring actions outlined in the Chief favourable working capital management.
Executives Review on pages 3 to 5, Cash Systems will comprise three focused Strategic Business Strategic Business Unit Performance Units SBUs.
These will be managed as front to Teller automation revenues continue to be the major back businesses with direct accountability to the driver of product sales and service revenues in the Chief Executive.
10 fide La Rue Annual Report Operational review - 8% 20m The cost reduction programme in Cash Over the year a major focus has been Systems over the last two years is now on improving stock control.
showing through in efficiency gains.
This year we have achieved excellent This year has seen an 8% year on year results and the division has seen improvement when measured by sales a fall of 20m in stock levels, a per employee.
Branch Teller Automation Kaizen Blitz in Sweden Our strategy is to support and develop our strong market position as the global market leader in Teller Automation products serving the retail bank sector.
Our focus will be through a greater emphasis on increase in the 80% the key growth markets, particularly North America, output of the lines together with driving further operational productivity improvements.
Kaizen Blitz is a technique used to accelerate improvements in productivity instead of the Cash Processing Solutions Sorters traditional incremental change process.
A crossThe Sorters business provides cash handling solutions, functional team spends typically 3-5 days including banknote sorters and software systems to completely reworking a manufacturing cell.
The help Central Banks, commercial banks and cash-inBlitz process uses value stream mapping and transit companies worldwide process cash efficiently other lean tools to break apart and completely and improve customer service.
We intend to focus rethink existing production processes.
Our the business where fide La Rue can compete manufacturing facility in Flen, which produces successfully and which complement the Groups teller automation products for global distribution, Currency operations.
has run several Kaizen Blitz events this year, which have yielded significant improvements OEM Desktop Products on several assembly lines.
On the note transport fide La Rue is a leading supplier of Original Equipment production line, for example, the following Manufacture OEM mechanisms and technologies improvements were made : space reductions to the ATM industry.
The Desktop Products business of 30%, work in progress reductions of 70% provides low cost, simple-to-use cash counters and an 80% increase in the output of the line.
targeting the banking, retail, gaming, leisure and cash-in-transit markets.
Our strategy is to maximise earnings for these mature businesses by rationalising manufacturing capacity and optimising the supply chain.
fide La Rue Annual Report Operational review 11
