8 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Operating Review The Group is focused on improving its operational performance and developing its strong market positions in Paper and Corrugated Packaging, Plastic Packaging and Ofce Products Wholesaling.
In anticipation of the UK legislation from operations in the UK, Germany, the Paper and Corrugated Packaging requiring changes to the content of USA and New Zealand.
In RTP, reusable DS Smith produces 1.7 billion square companies Operating and Financial container and pallet systems and injection metres 0.9 million tonnes per annum of Reviews to be published from April 2006 moulded crates, and semi-finished extruded corrugated packaging.
1.1 billion square onwards, we have increased the detail solid and multi-wall corrugated plastic sheet metres are produced in the UK by DS Smith provided on our businesses and markets are supplied predominantly to the automotive, Packaging, while 0.6 billion square metres in this review.
beverage and container markets in Europe are produced within DS Smith Kaysersberg from the UK, France, Belgium, Spain and in France, Italy, Poland, the Czech Republic Poland.
Additionally, the segment contains and Turkey.
DS Smith also owns 39% of an Description of three small speciality businesses: Packaging associate paper and corrugated packaging Management, which provides logistics business in the Ukraine.
the Business services particularly for pallet and layer pad The Group manufactures 1.3 million tonnes DS Smith is an international pools: BSK, a specialist coating business: of paper per annum.
1.1 million tonnes are and a development business, StePac, which group with a turnover in produced in the UK by St Regis Paper specialises in modified atmosphere packaging 2004 05 of 1,624.9 million Company while 0.2 million tonnes are for preserving the quality of fresh fruit and and employs 11,900 people produced within DS Smith Kaysersberg vegetables in transit.
75% of the paper Ofce Products Wholesaling produced by the Group is CCM which is Spicers is the leading European wholesaler used for manufacturing corrugated board: The Groups strategy is to improve its of office products.
Its product range of 90% of the paper is made from recycled operational performance and develop its Spicers own 5 Star brand and other branded recovered paper.
Severnside Recycling strong market positions in Paper and products includes traditional stationery lines, collects, through its 19 UK collection depots, Corrugated Packaging, Plastic Packaging electronic office supplies EOS, office 1.1 million tonnes per annum of recovered and Office Products Wholesaling.
In Paper furniture, janitorial supplies and office paper, the principal raw material for and Corrugated Packaging, it is the leading catering and vending provisions.
It supplies producing recycled paper: additionally, UK producer of corrugated packaging and its customer base of office products dealers it merchants recycled paper and provides has major corrugated packaging positions from its network of distribution centres facilities management services to handle in continental Europe: it is the leading in the UK, Ireland, France, Germany, Spain customers general recycling and waste UK producer of recycled corrugated case and Italy.
material paper CCM : and the leading Ofce Products Manufacturing UK collector and merchant of recovered Plastic Packaging John Dickinson is the leading UK paper.
In Plastic Packaging, the Group DS Smiths Plastic Packaging segment is producer of envelopes, social stationery is a leading worldwide supplier in liquid focused on two markets: liquid packaging and notebooks.
packaging and dispensing and holds a major and dispensing and RTP.
In liquid packaging European position in industrial returnable and dispensing, bag-in-box packaging transit packaging RTP.
In Office Products, systems and injection moulded taps and Spicers is the leading European wholesaler dispensers are supplied worldwide to the of office supplies.
soft drinks, wine and other industry sectors DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 9 Recovered paper Severnside Recycling supplies Recycled paper Productivity and output Corrugated packaging The Group benefited this principal raw material to the UK paper mills: from the Groups mills improved but the market from the integration of Linpac Containers it enlarged its collection operations in 2004 05. remained weak.
well-invested facilities with our existing operations.
Paper and Corrugated Packaging In western Europe the market grew by 1.1% FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2003: 0.3% while growth in eastern and 2 2005 2004 restated central Europe continued to be much stronger Turnover 896.9m 748.9m at 12.8% 2003: 10.9%.
In DS Smiths 1 Adjusted operating profit 52.3m 41.4m principal markets, demand fell slightly in 1 Adjusted return on sales 5.8% 5.5% the UK and France, by 0.1% and 0.4%, 1 respectively, while Italy was 1.2% ahead and Adjusted return on average capital employed 7.9% 8.0% Poland and Turkey grew strongly by 16.6% 1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles and 14.2%, respectively.
The ongoing trend 2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 Retirement benets and UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts: the 2004 adjusted operating profit reported previously under the SSAP 24 accounting standard towards the use of lighter-weight packaging was 50.5 million for cost and environmental reasons, resulted in demand, when measured by area, being Market Overview The adjusted operating profit of 52.3 million up 1.7% in the UK and up 1.6% in western The European market for corrugated 2003 04 restated: 41.4 million, which Europe as a whole.
The market softened packaging is estimated to be approximately includes a pension charge of 9.1 million 17 billion, equivalent to 20 million tonnes as 2004 progressed and has subsequently 2003 04 restated: 9.1 million, advanced 1 or 38 billion square metres.
Within this, the weakened further in the early months of 2005: due to a strong performance from the existing UK market is estimated to be approximately offtake in all the leading western European Corrugated Packaging operations, a full 10% of the total European market.
Demand countries is reported to be down year-on-year year 14.9 million contribution 2003 04: for corrugated packaging is principally in the first quarter of calendar year 2005.
1.2 million from six weeks of DS Smith influenced by overall economic activity ownership from Linpac Containers and Within the total European market, the growth and manufacturing output.
synergy benefits of 6.1 million, which, rates of different segments vary considerably.
combined, more than offset a significant In the calendar year 2004, the European Corrugated packaging usage in some market by weight for corrugated board grew reduction in profits from Paper.
industrial manufacturing sectors of western Contribution Drivers Pricing and margins in corrugated packaging are In 2004 05 four key external drivers adversely strongly inuenced by pricing Recovered paper price CCM capacity affected the contribution developments in corrugated in our UK paper business case materials paper.
Paper Corrugated PRN price Energy costs 1 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers DS Smith 2 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers 10 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Operating Review Enlarged Paper and Corrugated Packaging continued UK market position The addition of Linpac Containers to DS Smith Packaging has broadened our customer base and strengthened our manufacturing capability in corrugated packaging.
Integration The Devizes and Bristol plants are now operating in tandem at lower cost: process control on the new Devizes corrugator is key to maximising output of high quality board.
estimated 0.6 million tonnes of older capacity European and UK Corrugated Packaging Market since the start of 2004, it has resulted in a Tonnes index 2000 100 continued destabilisation of selling prices throughout the European market.
In the next two years, the level of capacity additions is expected to be much lower than in the last two years.
However, the outlook for CCM prices in the coming year will depend upon Europe including UK future market growth across Europe and the UK extent to which uneconomic capacity is Source: European Federation of rationalised further.
Corrugated Board Manufacturers 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 The squeeze on paper producers margins from depressed selling prices has been exacerbated by increased energy costs and by the relatively high cost of recovered Europe has tended to decline as a result the principal component in manufacturing paper, the principal raw material for recycled of the transfer of manufacturing to lower corrugated packaging, which typically CCM.
The continuing high level of demand cost countries, while usage for fast-moving accounts for approximately 50% of the for recovered paper in Asia, some of consumer goods, which accounts for at least cost of a box.
which is being supplied from Europe, is 55% of the corrugated market, has been contributing to a modest secular increase Within the total estimated European relatively strong due to the continuing and short-term fluctuations in the price of market for CCM of circa 20 million tonnes, growth of this economic sector.
Other current recovered paper in Europe.
In the UK, the approximately 75% is recycled paper.
growth segments are the home delivery of net cost of our raw material is also affected European CCM producers sell their product products from internet purchases, and shelfby the price of Packaging Recovery Notes throughout Europe, so demand and pricing ready packaging which can be used as both PRNs, which are issued as evidence for CCM are heavily influenced by demand transit and display packaging.
Supply of that packaging has been reprocessed in for corrugated packaging and the CCM corrugated board and boxes is generally compliance with the UK Packaging Waste supply position in Europe as a whole.
relatively local to the point of production Regulations and for which we receive During 2003 and 2004, low growth in due to moderately high transport costs for revenue to set against the cost of recovered corrugated packaging and some excess a low-density product and the service paper.
The price of paper PRNs remained CCM manufacturing capacity resulted in requirements of customers.
relatively low during 2004 but has firmed CCM prices being depressed.
This situation in calendar year 2005 to date.
Downward pressure on selling prices is an has been exacerbated in early 2005 by the ongoing feature of the corrugated packaging commissioning of four new continental market due to the purchasing power of European CCM machines, with an aggregate retailers and direct customers.
In addition, capacity of approximately 1.2 million tonnes.
pricing and margins in corrugated packaging Although this new capacity, which is are strongly influenced by pricing concentrated on lighter-weight papers, has developments on CCM, the paper used as been partly offset by the removal of an 100.0 100.0 99.5 97.6 101.9 98.5 103.3 97.6 105.6 97.5 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 11 Synergy benets Integration synergies added 6.1 million to the 2004 05 result: we are on course to achieve, by early 2006 07, the 14.5 million run-rate of annual synergies originally indicated.
Product development New packaging designs are continually being developed to meet customers needs: demand is increasing for shelf-ready packaging which improves retailers efficiency by enabling easy conversion of the box from transit pack to display unit.
DS Smith Packaging, our UK Corrugated other plants, and two plants are now being 2004 05 Performance UK Packaging business, produced a good result operated in tandem, thereby reducing costs.
In the UK, the Group benefited from a A new, combined raw materials procurement substantial increase in contribution from despite flat demand, due to higher profits function is producing the envisaged benefits Corrugated Packaging, which more than from DS Smiths existing operations, the in paper sourcing.
Despite the delay in offset the reduced contribution from Paper.
14.9 million 2003 04: 1.2 million first beginning the integration process, we are full years profit contribution from the former confident of generating the expected pre-tax Linpac Containers business and 6.1 million synergies of 14.5 million per annum, of initial synergy benefits from the integration identified at the time of the acquisition: of the two businesses.
Prices were increased 6.1 million has been achieved to date and early in the financial year to recover some of we anticipate generating at least 75% of the the higher input costs but market pressure 14.5 million in 2005 06, with the balance resulted in some erosion in the second half being generated in 2006 07.
Exceptional of the financial year.
restructuring charges of 4.9 million were Our drive to raise efficiency lifted profitability incurred in 2004 05 with a cash cost of across our conventional corrugated network.
Our speciality and heavy duty segments, which Bob McLellan Chief Executive, concentrate on higher added-value products, DS Smith Packaging UK Paper and Corrugated advanced further, particularly due to better Packaging Strategy returns from several plants in which we have Our UK Corrugated Packaging invested recently.
Our sheet feeding operations, We are focused on raising returns through realising the benets of our substantial business produced a good result which supply corrugated sheet board, benefited integrated position from raised service levels in a market which despite at demand.
continued to be highly competitive and affected Recovered by industry over-supply.
paper The referral of the Linpac Containers acquisition to the Competition Commission Paper meant that we could not begin the process of generating the expected synergies until the second half of the financial year.
Following the Commissions conclusion in October 2004 that the acquisition would not lead to a substantial lessening of competition in the Corrugated market, we rapidly began implementation of an extensive integration programme.
2004 05 The headquarters were merged, two factories were closed with a high proportion of the 631m turnover business being successfully transferred to 12 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Operating Review Developing Paper and Corrugated Packaging continued in continental Europe Our continental corrugated packaging operations performed well and the Group is seeking further development opportunities, particularly in the higher growth markets of eastern Europe.
Higher value products DS Smith Kaysersberg increased sales volume of heavy-duty products by 5%: this is a particular area of strength for the Group in France.
At our UK paper business, St Regis, profits paper cost increases, but this had no significant were again significantly lower than in the effect on the 2004 05 result.
The extent to which this will benefit the Groups overall previous year due to continuing depressed result in 2005 06 depends upon developments prices for our main product, CCM, and margins in prices throughout the corrugated packaging were squeezed further by substantial increases supply chain during the year: currently paper in gas costs and the relatively high cost of our pricing across Europe remains weak.
The impact of these external factors was partly mitigated The results of St Regis subsidiary, Severnside by improvements in productivity and output Recycling, were affected by increased volume, favourable sales mix, and improved competition for recovered paper with strong raw material and energy usage.
The Kemsley export demand leading to Severnside having to Don Coates Chief Executive, paper mill, which accounts for over 50% of St Regis Paper pay a higher price to source its recovered paper.
St Regiss paper production, achieved another It further enlarged its recovered paper collection year of record total output and production per At our UK paper business, operations with the acquisition, in August 2004, employee, due to its ongoing programme of profits were again signicantly of the five collection depots of BPB Recycling: process optimisation.
Wansbrough and Hollins this substantially increased Severnsides ability lower than in the previous year.
mills increased their output through increased to meet St Regis recovered paper requirement efficiency and operating rates respectively: both from its own collection infrastructure.
mills benefited from an improved sales mix as Severnside also increased its trading in recycled a result of the Linpac Containers acquisition.
materials and grew its business in managing customers entire waste recycling and disposal In March 2005 we made a major advance in needs through facilities management.
our drive to increase sales of higher addedvalue product by entering into a long-term agreement with BPB plc for the supply of UK Paper Cost Reduction plasterboard liner paper.
St Regis has been Productivity Index 2001 02 100 developing its sales of this product in recent years and, under this agreement, will raise 120 sales to BPB plc to 100,000 tonnes per annum.
In order to satisfy this supply agreement, St Regis will undertake a 30 million capital 100 expenditure programme to upgrade existing machines at its Kemsley and Wansbrough mills over the next two years.
This programme will also enhance the quality of St Regis CCM and 80 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 2004 05 coreboard, used for manufacturing tubes.
Tonnes produced employee St Regis raised its CCM prices in March 2005, Fixed cash costs tonne produced seeking to recover part of the gas and recovered DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 13 Expanding in Poland DS Smith Polska achieved substantial growth in sales and profits in a market which is expanding at over 10% per annum.
Its new factory at Kutno, west of Warsaw, is due to open in autumn 2005.
Turnaround in Turkey DS Smith opikas increased Growth in Italy DS Smith Toscana Ondulati its market share and moved into profit.
increased output from its well-invested factories.
2004 05 Performance Continental Europe Continental European Paper and Corrugated Packaging Strategy Our goal is to grow from our regional positions, particularly in the higher-growth markets of eastern Europe Ukraine Poland Czech Republic France Jean-Paul Loison Chief Executive, DS Smith Kaysersberg Italy Turkey 2004 05 Our continental European division, DS Smith Kaysersberg, 266m turnover performed well and reported NB Indicative relative sizes of operations not drawn to scale a small increase in profits.
Our continental European division, by good productivity levels from our wellDS Smith Kaysersberg, performed well and invested factories.
However, profits were reported a small increase in profits despite affected by lower selling prices due to difficult conditions in many of its markets: competitor activity.
it benefited from strong progress in the Output and profits at the Polish business Polish and Turkish businesses.
advanced strongly, in line with our plan The French paper mills, which principally to build sales at our existing factory ahead manufacture solid board, increased their of the opening of our new green-field productivity and sales volume following factory at Kutno, west of Warsaw, in an investment programme, but margins autumn 2005.
In Turkey, our programme were squeezed, despite improved of action over the last two years to raise productivity, by weak market conditions, operational performance and increase market lower selling prices and higher energy share, enabled the business to record a further costs.
Results at the French Corrugated increase in sales and to move into profit Packaging operations were lower, due for the year.
Our associate operation in the to a decline in the French market and Ukraine, OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and intense price pressure from customers.
Packaging Mill, continued to perform well, In Italy, we increased sales volume and benefiting from the recent major programme market share in a difficult market, assisted of investment.
14 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Operating Review Market Plastic Packaging development Rapak, our liquid packaging and dispensing business which has operations in Europe, the USA and New Zealand, is developing business in new growth markets for bag-in-box packaging.
A recent success is an awardwinning, three litre pack for fruit juice which combines Rapaks Intasept bag and lling technology and a specially designed tap.
Innovation The Intasept bag-in-box technology allows the juice to remain fresh for up to five weeks in the fridge after opening, compared with five days for traditional packaging formats.
Plastic Packaging FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2 2005 2004 restated Turnover 195.9m 208.7m 1 Adjusted operating profit 9.9m 14.0m 1 Adjusted return on sales 5.1% 6.7% 1 Adjusted return on average capital employed 7.1% 10.0% 1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles 2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 Retirement benets and UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts: the 2004 adjusted operating profit reported previously under the SSAP 24 accounting standard Adrian Whiteld Chief Executive, was 15.2 million DS Smith Plastics DS Smith Plastics adjusted operating profit Market Overview DS Smith Plastics was adversely of 9.9 million 2003 04 restated: 14.0 The bag-in-box market worldwide is affected by lower sales and by million, which included a pension charge estimated to be worth over $500 million under-recovery of the sharp rise of 1.0 million 2003 04: 1.2 million, was and has been growing at over 5% per annum in polymer prices.
3 adversely affected by lower sales, particularly by volume.
The principal uses of bag-in-box in RTP, and in the second half of the financial packaging are for wine and carbonated soft year by the under-recovery of polymer costs drink concentrate but there is growing usage following their sharp rise.
in other sectors such as the dairy industry, edible oils, fruit juices and chemicals.
In the USA, where usage is principally Plastic Packaging Turnover in the carbonated soft drink concentrate Our two primary areas of focus account industry, the market is estimated to be for over 80% of sales static in volume while in Europe, where usage is primarily in the wine industry, the market is estimated to be growing at over Liquid packaging and dispensing 10% per annum by volume.
Prices in both 87m the USA and Europe are under increasing RTP pressure as the market matures.
Usage is 79m at an early stage of development and growing Other 30m rapidly in Asia.
The market for taps, other than for bag-in-box systems, is fragmented across a wide range of uses: a major sector 2004 05 supplied by DS Smith, principally in the USA, is liquid detergent, which is estimated 196m turnover to be growing strongly.
3 Source: DS Smith estimates DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 15 Security Taps produced by Worldwide Dispensers Hygiene Aseptic bags and tments are produced New markets Large bags with up to 1,400 litres for use in wine bags have tamper-evident seals.
under special conditions to increase the storage life capacity are being increasingly used for dairy products, of dairy, fruit juice and other sterile products.
fruit juice concentrate, mayonnaise and cosmetics.
The European market for RTP is fragmented these cost increases in full.
The cumulative in 1998, the Group took an exceptional into many sub-sectors but has in total grown effect of this input cost under-recovery impairment charge in 2004 05 of 5.8 million steadily in recent years, due to the increased was approximately 3 million, largely against its goodwill: this business is trading requirement for multi-trip, reusable packaging concentrated in the RTP business.
at around break-even and generating cash.
on cost and environmental grounds, for some The high polymer prices also resulted in uses.
This market is heavily influenced by reduced sales in sectors of the market such as industry sector activity levels and, as RTP is crates and pallets, as some customers deferred often a capital purchase driven by particular orders in the expectation that polymer prices projects, annual demand can be of an would not remain at such high levels.
The combined result of the three smaller 2004 05 Performance speciality businesses was flat year-on-year, In liquid packaging and dispensing, the and in one of these, which provides packaging bag-in box business was affected by lower management services and was acquired demand from the US carbonated soft drinks sector, increased competitor activity in the European wine market and a change in mix towards lower value-added bags.
The tap business produced an improved result, following action in 2003 04 to reduce costs and strengthen sales and product development.
The RTP business was affected by a slowdown in new crate contracts, principally from the brewing industry, after especially strong demand in 2003 04.
Margins in the extruded sheet sector were additionally squeezed due to industry capacity increases at a time of weaker demand and increased sourcing of packaging from eastern Europe as some customers move their operations to that region.
The divisions overall result was adversely affected in the second half of the year by the sharp rise in polymer prices which ended the financial year some 35-40% higher than at the start of 2004 05 for our Innovative crate designs DW Plastics produces crates in Belgium, Poland, Spain and main polymer types.
Although we raised the Dominican Republic.
Customers logos are our selling prices several times during the added during the moulding process.
year, it was not always possible to recover 16 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Operating Review Progress Ofce Products continued Spicers established businesses continued their good performance while the German, Spanish and Italian businesses met their development goals.
Service Customers orders, received by telephone or on-line, are delivered the same day or overnight.
Ofce Products Wholesaling FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2 2005 2004 restated Turnover 499.7m 498.8m 1 Adjusted operating profit 21.7m 19.7m 1 Adjusted return on sales 4.3% 3.9% 1 Adjusted return on average capital employed 18.3% 16.7% 1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles 2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 Retirement benets and UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts: the 2004 adjusted operating profit reported previously under the SSAP 24 accounting standard Bill Armstrong Chief Executive, Spicers was 21.7 million The adjusted operating profit of 21.7 million Market Overview Spicers advanced principally 2003 04 restated: 19.7 million, which Spicers principal office products wholesaling due to the German business included a pension charge of 1.7 million markets of the UK, France and Germany returning to profit, which 2003 04: 2.0 million, advanced principally are estimated to be worth approximately more than offset the increased due to the German business moving into 9.0 billion, 7.7 billion and 11.1 billion, costs of the newly-launched profit, which more than offset the increased respectively, and in 2004 were estimated to costs of the newly-launched Italian business.
have declined by at least 2%, with the traditional stationery sector declining at a higher rate than this, and electronic office Spicers Locations supplies EOS growing at up to 10% per 4 annum.
There was growing evidence during Spicers 2004 05 of rising market volumes but prices distribution centres provide remained under pressure.
EOS, which now fast, efficient accounts for 40-50% of the total office delivery to products market, is particularly price their ofce products competitive and margins on the highest dealer volume EOS products continue to be eroded.
The value of the overall market is also being eroded by the trend for consumers to buy lower specification or own-branded products.
2004 05 Performance Spicers met its key objectives for the year: Spicers Germany moved into profit: sales in the UK grew: the Italian business was 4 Source: DS Smith estimates based on national data DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 17 Developing European network Spicers continental expansion has enabled it to strengthen further its position through pan-European purchasing, co-ordinating IT maintenance and development, and sharing best practice between countries.
Productivity Approximately 15,500 product lines Italy Sales have been ahead of plan since Spicers are picked for despatch each night at the Birmingham began trading from its distribution centre, just south dealer distribution centre.
of Milan, in November 2004. successfully launched: the Spanish business Ofce Products Manufacturing made progress towards profitability.
The FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS good result for the year was assisted by 2 2005 2004 restated total costs being held constant despite the Turnover 46.8m 48.0m increased costs required to establish the 1 Adjusted operating profit nil 0.3m Italian business.
1 Adjusted return on sales 0.6% In the UK, turnover grew slightly in the 1 Adjusted return on average capital employed 2.2% second quarter of the financial year, being the first quarter in which growth had been 1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles 2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 Retirement benets and UITF Abstract 38 recorded for over three years: this trend was Accounting for ESOP trusts: the 2004 adjusted operating profit reported previously under the SSAP 24 accounting standard maintained through to the financial year-end, was 1.4 million despite some renewed softening of the market in the final quarter.
Good service The adjusted break-even result 2003 04 John Dickinson was affected levels were maintained and a sound financial restated: 0.3 million, which included a by continued difficult trading performance was achieved due to further cost pension charge of 1.0 million 2003 04: conditions and intense reduction and productivity improvements.
1.1million, was lower due to substantial Profits in Ireland were significantly affected competitor activity.
European industry over-supply in envelopes by reduced sales and price pressure in an and the trend towards own-label product.
especially weak market: costs were reduced Strengthened merchandising and new and sales improved towards the end of the products assisted increased sales of branded financial year.
books: costs have been reduced further across the business.
John Dickinsons The French business continued to perform leading brands, product range developments well and gained market share in a challenging and productivity initiatives provide a good market environment by supporting its base for improvement.
customers with service at a record high level.
Spicers Germany achieved a profit for the year, helped by exiting unprofitable business and reducing costs, while growing sales with independent dealers.
The Spanish business continued to grow sales strongly and reduced its losses: in addition to growing in the Barcelona area adjacent to its distribution centre, it is developing the market in the Madrid area.
Spicers Italy was launched in November 2004: initial catalogue sales were strong and product sales to date have been encouraging.
