Operating review: EMI Music Market overview EMI Music continues to operate in a marketplace that is undergoing significant change, primarily driven by the rapid development of digital music.
Market trends during the financial year lead us to remain positive on the outlook for the global recorded music market and optimistic about the opportunities digital will continue to bring.
The global recorded music market, combining physical and digital music sales, declined by only an estimated 1.0% during the year, a significant improvement on the 5.6% decline reported in the prior year.
While market conditions remain mixed by region, we have seen improving trends in physical music sales year-on-year in nearly all regions.
Most encouraging has been the improvement seen in Continental Europe, particularly in the second half of the financial year.
This improvement has been driven by a significant reduction in the rate of decline in the key German and French markets.
We also saw a notable improvement in the Japanese and Latin American markets.
The North American market softened during the year, particularly during our second half.
Alain Levy Chairman and CEO Music video continued to be a growing segment of the global physical industry, EMI Music up 6.3% on the prior year.
We see increasing market opportunities for higher valueadded physical music product that delivers increased music content to consumers and we are working on the development and introduction of new formats and products, for example DualDisc.
Digital The rate of development of the digital music marketplace during the year has been very rapid and reaffirms our confidence that digital music will represent a very significant proportion of our business in the coming years.
Digital market development to date varies significantly by region, with mobile music products dominating the Asian markets, in particular Japan, downloads leading the North American market and a combination of both being seen in the UK and Continental Europe.
We believe this variation will lessen in years to come largely as a result of the roll-out of technological advances.
Joss Stone Mind, Body & Soul Importantly, a number of large organisations recognise the digital music opportunity 2.7m and have committed significant resources to drive forward the development of this The Soul Sessions marketplace, particularly in the form of marketing expenditure.
Specifically, in the 1.3m past year we saw the launch of iTunes in Europe, a new digital download and music subscription service from Yahoo!
Music Unlimited in the US, MSN Music on a global basis, Vodafone live!
with 3G in the UK, the relaunch of Napster and the introduction of Napster To Go and Rhapsody-To-Go.
As an owner of digital music content, we believe that EMI is extremely well positioned to capitalise on this growth.
Our strategy remains to deliver our music content to consumers in any form, at any time and in any place.
As such, we have been working very hard to put in place the right digital partnerships globally to ensure that, as well as maximising the digital opportunity, we also secure the right value for our exclusive music content.
We are making good progress with our IT investment programme, which is designed to enable us to efficiently capture the increased revenue opportunities we see in the digital environment.
Tina Turner All The Best Note: All album sales quoted in the photo captions are for the financial year ended 31 March 2005 unless otherwise stated.
2.2m 21 19 EMI Music delivered digital sales of 35.6m for the financial year, an increase of more than 300% on the prior year with digital sales now representing 2.2% of total revenues.
Performance review Despite this improved market backdrop, EMI Music had a challenging year because of, in part, the changes to the release schedule and the lower than anticipated reorders in the fourth quarter.
This resulted in a disappointing second-half performance, with the portfolio underperforming both our own expectations and the global music market.
For the year, EMI Music sales declined by 7.4% at constant currency and Kylie Ultimate Kylie market share fell to 12.9% from 13.5% in the prior year.
Prior year global market 1.4m share has been restated to reflect exchange rate movements.
In particular, the change of release dates of two major albums, X&Y from Coldplay and Demon Days from Gorillaz, from the last financial year to the current financial year, had a significant impact on the results.
While we tightly manage the release schedule, recording music is a creative process and there can be instances where changes to the release schedule may adversely affect results for a specific financial reporting period.
Both albums will be released in the first quarter of the current financial year and are expected to be major sellers.
We also saw our major second-half releases underperforming, with reorder levels Blue being lower than anticipated in the fourth quarter.
We are confident that this is not Best of a reflection of the broader portfolio and we have seen our more recent releases 1.8m performing well including albums from Moby, Chemical Brothers, Faith Evans and Athlete.
The year had some notable successes.
Robbie Williams Greatest Hits was the bestselling album during the financial year, achieving sales of over 6m units.
This album was hugely successful on a global basis and was number one in 18 countries.
It was the industrys sixth best-selling album worldwide during 2004.
In February 2005, Robbie Williams received the British music industry's award for the best song of the past quarter century for Angels.
Robbie Williams is now recording his next album which is planned for release in the current financial year.
In 2004, Joss Stone developed into a global superstar.
Her latest album, Mind, Body & Soul, has sold 2.8m units since its release in August and her first album, The Soul Sessions, also continued to sell well throughout the year.
Joss Stones enormous talent was further recognised when she received BRIT awards for British Female Solo Artist and British Urban Act.
Norah Joness albums, Feels Like Home and Come Away with Me, both released Beastie Boys in prior financial years, together sold nearly 4m units during the year.
To The 5 Boroughs 1.9m The Now compilations enjoyed success both in the US where Now 17 sold 3.5m units and in the UK and Europe where three Now albums each sold more than 1m units.
As a music-content company, artist and repertoire A&R is core to our business and is a key focus for us.
Our strategy has been, and continues to be, the development of long-term career artists who will enjoy success on a multiple-album basis.
During the 20 year, we built upon the initial success of new superstars, Joss Stone, Keith Urban and Our strategy is to Yellowcard, all of whom we believe will have long, productive and successful careers.
develop long-term Through breaking new artists, we are continually strengthening our active roster of global superstars, which now amounts to nearly 50 artists including Robbie Williams, career artists with Coldplay, Norah Jones, Kylie Minogue, Moby, Lenny Kravitz, Daft Punk, Gorillaz, Beastie Boys, Paul McCartney, the Rolling Stones, Tina Turner and Hikaru Utada.
multiple-album During the year, we continued to focus on superior catalogue marketing, maximising success.
the revenues of our exceptional catalogue of recordings.
Dino: The Essential Dean Martin, which sold 1m units during the year, is a good example of our ability to repackage prior recordings into new, compelling works.
Other top-selling catalogue albums were The Beatles 1 and The Beach Boys The Sounds of Summer.
Geographic review North America Our North American business had a challenging year, following a very successful prior year, resulting in a loss of market share.
This disappointing performance in part reflects the slippage of albums from Coldplay and Gorillaz and, also, a number of releases selling less than we had anticipated.
Top-selling albums for the year Ray Charles included those from Beastie Boys, Keith Urban, Yellowcard, Chingy, Joss Stone Genius Loves and Anita Baker.
Company 1.3m Digital music sales in North America more than doubled during the year.
The market continued to be dominated by digital track downloads which, according to Soundscan data, now represent more than 4% of the total US music market in terms of unit sales on an album-equivalent basis.
This is broadly in line with the proportion of EMI Musics digital sales in the region.
Apples hugely successful iPod and iTunes continued to drive market development.
We have also seen the launch of other digital services including a download service from Microsoft, MSN Music, and subscription-based services such as Napster To Go and Yahoo!
Mobile music remains relatively undeveloped but we expect this to change with Lenny Kravitz advances in mobile technology in the region.
Baptism 1.3m We continue to focus on building the breadth and depth of our North American artist roster.
During the year, we created a new division at our Virgin label, Virgin Records Urban Music, which is headed by the proven hit-maker and producer, Jermaine Dupri.
This will add to our range of creative sources in North America which includes the Capitol, Christian Music Group, Capitol Nashville and Blue Note labels.
EMI recognises that building its North American roster and repositioning the business is a multi-year effort which began to show some promising results in the prior financial year.
We view the past years sales performance as a temporary setback: the business remains profitable and we feel that our record labels are on the right path creatively.
The current financial year has got off to a good start with, in particular, strongly Keith Urban Yellowcard Be Here Ocean Avenue performing releases from Dierks Bentley and Faith Evans.
1.3m 1.2m Golden Road 1.0m 25 21 UK & Ireland The UK & Ireland business gained market share during the year reflecting a consistent stream of good releases.
This included successful albums from established artists, such as Robbie Williams, Kylie Minogue, Phil Collins, Blue, Tina Turner and Chemical Brothers, as well as those from developing artists, such as Joss Stone, Athlete and Jamelia.
The overall regional performance was impacted by the change in release timings of albums from Coldplay and Gorillaz, both repertoire from the UK & Ireland business.
The Beach Boys Sounds of Summer 0.9m Digital saw massive growth in the UK during the year, driven by the launch of iTunes in June 2004 and the development of the mobile music market.
In October, EMI Music agreed a deal with The Carphone Warehouse, which made Robbie Williams the first-ever artist to release an entire album plus video content on a memory card that slots straight into a mobile phone.
This deal is just one example of the new and exciting music formats and opportunities digital music brings.
Continental Europe Our Continental European business had a good year, gaining market share and significantly increasing its level of profitability.
After a number of very challenging years, we are seeing the benefits from our restructuring initiatives in this region, strengthening what has traditionally been a very solid base for EMI.
In particular, our Italian business went from strength to strength with significant market share gains during the year.
Albums from local artists, Vasco Rossi and Tiziano Ferro, were both major sellers.
We also enjoyed good market share gains in France and Spain reflecting, in part, the successful implementation of our restructuring initiatives.
Other major-selling albums from local artists included Cali from France, Amaral from Chingy Spain and Wir Sind Helden and Helmut Lotti from Germany.
Top-selling international Powerballin artists included Robbie Williams, Blue, Tina Turner, Norah Jones, Moby, Joss Stone 1.1m and Kylie Minogue.
We have seen strong growth in digital in Continental Europe during the year.
In this region, digital sales are predominantly from downloads although we are seeing a good contribution from mobile music products, with a higher proportion than in the US and the UK.
The Beatles 1 1.1m 22 Apple Corps Ltd epyt eunever yb eslas latigid puorG sceruoSe uneevR gnhisilbPu cisMuionsidivs essinbuby r vernotu upGro htworGt kraM cisuM labolGTotal Group digital sales 121.8 116.9 115.0 114.2 114.0 104.0 103.0 % change m 87.6 80.7 225.5 4.2 6 4.1 35 30.2 3.1 4 59.6 30 inc. digital 2 40.3 -1.0 25 19.5 0 20 63.0 54.3 -2 -3.8 15 -5.5 -5.6 -4 10.2 -3.5 10 -6 physical 4.9 -8.7 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 EMI FTSE FTSE only 5 -8 250 Media Sector -10 0 Japan FY98 FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05 H1 H2 H1 H2 Japan saw a decline in market share for the year, largely as a result of a lighter release Source: EMI and IFPI 2003 04 2004 05 schedule and, in particular, the lack of new releases from local superstars.
During the year we have taken a number of steps to broaden our Japanese roster and increase the development of new local talent.
As always, roster development takes time.
Major sellers during the year included a new release from Nori Makihara, new singles niovisdiss enusi bbyit of prngtieraop upGro collections from Glay and Yaida Hitomi, and good sell through on Hikaru Utadas singles collection.
Top-selling international artists included Beastie Boys, Blue and Dean Martin Dino: The Essential Norah Jones.
50.3 48.8 48.9 47.8 45.1 Dean Martin 43.2 38.9 1.037.1 m 35.8 The digital market grew significantly during the year driven by the rapid development Total shareholder return 28.1 of ring tune penetration in the mobile phone market.
The launch of new mobile products, Source: Thompson Financial 20.7 such as ring backs and ring videos, provided exciting new consumer offerings.
Value 140 South East Asia 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 South East Asia benefited from improving market conditions during the year but this 120 was largely offset by a modest loss in market share.
China saw a very significant 100 increase in sales, reflecting aggressive development of local repertoire.
We expect China to be a key growth driver for the region in the coming years.
80 Major-selling local artists during the year included S. H. E. David Tao, ADA Band, 60 Rene Liu and Elva Hsiao.
Top-selling international artists included Robbie Williams, 40 Norah Jones and Blue.
20 Australasia 0 Our Australasian business gained market share during the year but overall 31-Mar-00 31-Mar-01 31-Mar-02 31-Mar-03 31-Mar-04 31-Mar-05 0.69 0.66 performance was impacted by difficult market conditions.
Success in the region 0.53nigiorby r vernotu upGroEMI Group plc FTSE Mid-250 Index 0.45 during the year was driven by strong local releases including albums from Jet, Missy 0.38 0.37 0.34 Moby Higgins and Kasey Chambers.
Top-selling international artists included Robbie 0.22 0.20 0.21 Hotel Williams, Norah Jones and Joss Stone.
0.9m 0.03 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 The digital market in Australasia remains relatively immature, with the launch of iTunes Total Shareholder return Source: Thompson Financial eagerly awaited and the expansion of the telecoms networks to 3G still to happen.
Value 140 EMI market share by region 120 Value % 100 80 % North UK & Continental Japan Asia Latin Australasia Total America Ireland Europe ex.
Strong sales growth resulted in the region returning developing both to profitability during the year.
Mexico, Argentina and Colombia were key growth drivers of the business.
local and global Major-selling local artists during the year included Intocable, RDB, Quintanilla III, artists with Legiao Urbana and Aleks Syntek.
Top-selling international artists included Robbie Williams and Tiziano Ferro.
representation EMI Classics in all genres.
EMI Classics made good progress during the year.
Notable achievements were breaking Nigel Kennedy to gold status in France and the re-signing of Russian superstar violinist, Maxim Vengerov, who is about to record the Beethoven Concerto with Maestro Rostropovich and the London Symphony Orchestra.
Karl Jenkins signed a long-term contract with EMI Classics and his first two classical albums both went to the top of the UK classical charts.
His The Armed Man: A Mass For Peace was the first album from a British contemporary classical composer to be certified gold in the UK in over a decade.
Leif Ove Andsnes broke into the pop charts with a platinum certification for his album Mozart Piano Concertos Nos.
9 and 18 in his homeland, Norway, and Sir Simon Rattle and the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra built on their reputation as the worlds leading conductor and orchestra with a successful tour of Japan and South East Asia.
Nigel Kennedy Added to success with a gold album in France.
Leif Ove Andsnes Pop platinum award for classical release.
24 Norah Jones Feels Like Home and Come Away With Me have sold nearly 30 million after notching up another 2.1 million and 1.8 million respectively this year.
Norah is signed both to EMI Musics Blue Note Records and EMI Music Publishing.
25 Usher Signed to EMI Music Publishing since the start of his career, last year was the most successful ever for Usher with a string of awards and the worlds best-selling album in 2004, Confessions.
