06 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Operating review Mark Harper Filtrona is an international, market leading, expense of 57.8m 2004: 48.1m speciality plastic and fibre products supplier up 8.7% after excluding non-recurring with activities segmented into Plastic IFRS adjustments.
Plastic Technologies Plastic Technologies produces, sources Plastic Technologies had a very successful and distributes protection and finishing year with headline sales up 13.2% to products, self-adhesive tear tape and 273.3m 2004: 241.5m and operating security products as well as proprietary profit before intangible amortisation up and customised plastic extrusions and 13.3% to 37.6m 2004: 33.2m.
The packaging items for consumer products.
operating margin at 13.8% was 10 basis points up on 2004.
The 2004 Skiffy Fibre Technologies focuses on the acquisition contributed 2.3m of the sales production and supply of special filters growth and pricing to recover raw material for cigarettes and bonded fibre products cost increases accounted for a further such as reservoirs and wicks for writing 9.0m.
Underlying like-for-like operating instruments and printers, household profits excluding acquisition impact products and medical devices.
Filtrona has performed well in 2005 with Protection and Finishing Products headline sales up 7.6% to 513.7m 2004: achieved strong growth.
The Moss 477.5m and operating profit before business continued to increase its market intangible amortisation and demerger share in Continental Europe and to hold 07 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Plastic Technologies Protection and Finishing Products 08 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Operating review Coated and Security Products continued to benefit from increased volumes of printed tear tapes for brand promotion share in the more challenging UK market.
com, has been range development and a thriving oil and Progress in Eastern Europe was particularly further developed, and is now the preferred gas drilling sector.
The capacity of the order method for a substantial proportion of in both Houston, Texas and Vera Cruz, warehouse operation in Poland was the customer base.
Skiffy has exceeded Mexico were upgraded during the year to doubled and the performance of the new the expectations which we had upon improve productivity and product quality, distribution business at Brno, in the Czech acquisition of the business in 2004. and a new IT system was successfully Republic, met our expectations.
As a result installed at the Houston facility.
of the growth in Continental Europe, the The Alliance Plastics business in the US North European distribution hub in progressed well with domestic market Coated and Security Products continued Germany is being further expanded in share gains more than offsetting the to benefit from increased volumes of 2006 to enhance stock availability and weakness in the automotive sector.
printed tear tapes for brand promotion service levels.
The resources at the Moss Investments in machinery and tooling and brand security applications.
During the representative office in Ningbo, China expanded the product range and lowered year, the coated and security businesses were increased to support the greater level unit production costs.
The Alliance Express were combined in a market repositioning of sourcing activity for both tooling and distribution network performed particularly exercise under the Payne name which finished products.
Investments in new well due to an extensive marketing has growing brand equity in the tear tape, tooling will continue to drive down unit programme.
The Alliance national document authentication, personal production costs in 2006. distribution operation in Sao Paulo, Brazil identification and brand protection markets.
continued to grow and new machines have The Skiffy business continued to develop been installed to expand local production.
Tear tape sales grew as more customers successfully as investments in range recognised its value as a flexible, expansion, productivity improvement and The MSI oil country tubular goods thread cost-effective means of delivering on-pack marketing programmes drove both good protector business had a strong year consumer communication and product organic growth and enhanced margins.
supported by continued investment in authentication.
In the tobacco industry, 09 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Plastic Technologies Coated and Security Products 10 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Operating review Sales have continued to grow in the medical market due to the introduction of new products and the capture of new customers the migration of customers to higher value Personal identification continued to grow The Plastic Profile and Sheet business printed tapes continued and, in consumer well in both the local government and achieved good results both in North goods, business was secured with an commercial sectors.
New business America and Europe.
The North American important FMCG brand owner utilising generated by the change in UK licensing organisation was restructured generating digitally printed tear tapes with individual laws and a contract to supply UK both internal efficiencies and cost benefits.
item numbering for a major instant win magistrates with identification cards are The Monterrey facility in Mexico again consumer promotion.
Paynes print evidence of the continued health of this achieved rapid sales growth assisted by capability was further enhanced as the market niche.
the migration of manufacturing activity new six station printer came on stream from the US to Mexico and an expansion successfully at the Richmond, US facility.
At the end of the year, the Company of the facility is planned during 2006.
This investment has stimulated greater increased its stake in the FractureCode joint interest in printed tear tape within the venture from 50% to 80%.
The transaction The chosen key market sectors have North American market.
enables Filtrona to acquire the remaining delivered good growth during the year.
20% and thus own 100% of FractureCode Sales of point of purchase products were The Payne document authentication and by no later than the end of 2012.
The buoyant in both geographies and, in the personal identification businesses continued FractureCode development programme US, this has been assisted by a change to grow and to enter new markets.
The continued to progress well and our initial of distribution policy.
Sales have continued development of gravure print capability for customer has ordered equipment for to grow in the medical market due to the passport laminates has led to the capture of installation in a second manufacturing introduction of new products and the business for a high security film laminate on facility.
The FractureCode technology capture of new customers.
Both extrusion the next generation UK passport.
We were will be launched to the general market and assembly capacity have been pleased to win this contract against tough progressively during 2006. increased to cope with the increased competition and this segment offers further demand for high pressure tubing products.
11 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Plastic Technologies Plastic Profile and Sheet 12 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Operating review Volumes in our roll-on ball joint venture remained particularly strong and a new production line was commissioned in February 2006 In the transportation market, business was The business secured a number of new helped by a buoyant aircraft refurbishment projects during the year for tubes, bottles, sector and the increase in new aircraft closures and roll-on balls.
Volumes in builds should provide positive future our roll-on ball joint venture remained growth opportunities.
particularly strong and a new production line was commissioned in February 2006.
Our Dutch extrusion business, Enitor, has continued to develop its export activity, Each of the Plastic Technologies particularly to the UK, with important new businesses experienced very rapid projects in the conservatory and cable increases in raw material prices during the trunking markets.
Business growth has second half of the year.
Appropriate pricing generated the need for a factory extension action has been taken to recover these which is scheduled for completion in the cost movements and our success in this summer of 2006. endeavour is a reflection of Filtronas strong niche market positions.
Globalpack, our Brazilian Consumer Packaging business, encountered tough trading conditions through most of the year but, encouragingly, demonstrated a marked improvement in the last quarter.
13 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Plastic Technologies Consumer Packaging 14 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Operating review The first customer was captured for Filtronas Active Patch technology Fibre Technologies European volumes fell due to the impact at the new facility in Monterrey, Mexico, Sales in Fibre Technologies were up 1.9% of previous self-manufacture decisions by where further machinery has been installed to 240.4m 2004: 236.0m.
Operating a key customer in Russia and Italy but progressively throughout the year.
In the profit before intangible amortisation improved in the second half of the year with US and Venezuela, new five year supply was 26.9m 2004: 23.9m down by the additional outsourced volumes secured contracts were agreed with important 1.8% after excluding non-recurring IFRS with another key customer.
In the US market, the major adjustments.
Operating margins fell the overall volume weakness in Europe, the producers continue to develop and by 40 basis points to 11.2% from 11.6%.
high cost manufacturing facility in Crissier, test market new products with special Encouragingly, sales momentum was Switzerland was closed during the summer.
filters, and Filtrona is well placed to take regained in the second half of 2005 with advantage of any forthcoming launches.
sales up 5.3% on the same period last year.
The first customer was captured for Filtronas Active Patch technology and a Asian volumes continued to progress and Cigarette Filters total volumes were in line major European producer is also planning the Indonesian facility upgrade programme with last year.
Special filters volume growth a new product launch using this technology.
was completed at the end of the year.
The was encouraging at 6.6% driven by market Sales to the European Roll Your Own and transfer of a major tranche of business from growth and the capture of new outsourced Make Your Own sectors grew well during the Jarrow facility in the UK to Indonesia volumes.
Monoacetate filter volumes the year and, although monoacetate filters has begun.
The margin benefit of this currently dominate the cigarette market in mix improvement was reduced by a Europe, there is increasing development The evolution of Filtronas manufacturing combination of start-up and restructuring activity involving special filters.
footprint to lower cost areas of the world, costs which held back the growth of combined with the development of new operating profits.
Lower total filter volumes Volumes in the Americas increased due innovative filter products, is creating a in Europe were more than offset by good to good growth in Latin America and the positive market environment for the growth of volumes in the Americas and additional volumes secured for production filters business.
Asia where selling prices are lower.
15 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Fibre Technologies Cigarette Filters 16 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Operating review The business maintained its strong position in key product categories including wicks for pregnancy test kits Fibertec, our Bonded Fibre Components The innovation programme at the R&D business, experienced stronger demand centre in Richmond in the US continues for household products in the second half to provide good results with new products of the year.
Agreements were reached and processes and related intellectual with a number of significant customers for property.
A new bonded fibre product the renewal or establishment of multi-year for a medicine dispensing system was supply agreements.
At our Reinbek plant commercialised and important new in Germany the transfer out of the cigarette projects in inkjet printing components filters business and the softer market and blood separation technology continue conditions for household products to progress towards commercialisation experienced in the first half resulted in in 2006. a headcount reduction programme.
The Ningbo facility in China started up Mark Harper successfully and is already benefiting from Chief Executive new business won in the Asian market.
1 March 2006 Customer approvals of product produced in Ningbo are taking place progressively and customer orders in the regional market are now being satisfied with significantly shorter lead times.
17 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Fibre Technologies Bonded Fibre Components
