14 Operating Review Security Services WE ARE IN THE UNIQUE POSITION OF HAVING A BROAD GEOGRAPHIC FOOTPRINT COVERING MORE THAN 100 COUNTRIES WHICH IS UNRIVALLED IN THE SECURITY INDUSTRY.
This enables us to gain local expertise in a wide range G4S Global Risks, our consulting and specialist security of markets which we can offer to local, regional and business, provides a number of specialist services international customers.
such as risk consultancy, investigative services and government support services.
We are also a major We provide security services to numerous sectors, provider of specialist security to the mining, oil and from commercial buildings and retailers, to sporting gas industries.
events and high security government facilities.
We also operate across a number of different cultures Our New Markets businesses are growing at a and phases of economic development we have phenomenal pace as economies continue to develop.
had operations in many developing markets for more In these countries, buying decisions are made across than 40 years.
a range of products and we work with our customers to ensure that we can offer manned security, security In each country in which we operate, we use our systems, cash services and a range of other securitysecurity expertise to understand the market conditions, related services to meet their needs.
our customers business and the risks that they face.
This enables us to design security solutions which are both practical and effective.
Our security solutions can be tailored for individual sites, regional, national and international customers.
Demand for consistent security standards across a wide We provide security services to range of markets is growing as international companies numerous sectors, from commercial expand into new markets we established a new buildings and retailers, to sporting events international accounts sales team in January 2006 and high security government facilities.
to take advantage of this development.
Demand for consistent security standards across a wide range of markets is growing as international companies expand into new markets.
Our New Markets businesses are growing at a phenomenal pace as economies continue to develop.
Group 4 Securicor Annual Report & Accounts 2005 CHANGING BOUNDARIES CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT The security services division includes three main product areas: Manned Security Risk management and the provision of skilled security personnel for the protection of commercial premises, aviation sites, retailers and special events.
Security Systems Supply, installation, maintenance and monitoring of electronic security equipment such as intruder alarms, closed circuit television and access control systems.
Justice Services Custody & rehabilitation services, detention and escorting, immigration services and electronic monitoring of offenders.
Security Services Key Markets SECURITY SERVICES KEY MARKETS Region Market Position by turnover Manned Security Justice Services USA 2 3 UK 1 3 Netherlands 1 1 Canada 3 France 2 Denmark 1 Sweden 2 Germany 2 Belgium 1 Asia 1 Central & Eastern Europe 1 Middle East 1 Latin America 2 South Africa 1 Case study Security Services United Kingdom THE G4S SECURITY SERVICES UK AEGIS Project Automated Electronic Guarding Initiative was introduced two years ago as a means of achieving Land Securities Trilliums requirement for enhanced security throughout its estate, whilst providing a year-on-year cost saving by the reduction in the manned security presence.
The number and varying sizes of buildings comprising the estate opened up an opportunity to approach the security in a unique way.
A number of areas were identified whereby electronic security systems would either enhance security or carry out a task automatically, allowing manned security resource to be reduced and or utilised more effectively.
A combination of systems is used, comprising primarily G4S multiMAX Integrated Access Control and Alarms Monitoring Systems, together with an Audio Video Intercom System and the existing Intruder Detection System.
The overall aim of the AEGIS solution was cost reduction and improved efficiency.
A key target for the customer was an overall reduction in security spend with improved core hours manned guarding.
This target was met by the AEGIS solution with the additional benefit of a better use of resources out of hours, due to a better deployment of officers.
The same performance levels were achieved, as measured against the customers KPIs, at a lower cost.
The customer has seen a reduction of 100,000 manned guarding hours per annum as a result of the solution, whilst re-aligning remaining resources to better fit its business need.
In 2005, the manned security division MANNED SECURITY TRADING IN 2005 achieved overall organic growth of 7.1% Turnover PBITA Margins and margins were maintained at 5.9% in At constant m m line with 2004. exchange rates 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 Europe 1,364.5 1,325.5 73.3 75.5 5.4% 5.7% North America 1,014.6 958.6 61.0 54.8 6.0% 5.7% Justice Services in the UK started new New Markets 495.2 391.2 35.6 26.3 7.2% 6.7% contracts in electronic monitoring of offenders and immigration in 2005.
Total 2,874.3 2,675.3 169.9 156.6 5.9% 5.9% Exchange differences 34.6 1.9 At actual exchange rates 2,640.7 154.7 In 2005, the manned security division achieved ahead of target.
The business focused on overall organic growth of 7.1% and margins were integrating the two companies, as a result of the maintained at 5.9% in line with 2004. merger in 2004, as well as implementing new regulatory requirements for individual security Overall organic growth in Europe for the full year officers to obtain licences to operate in the was slightly less than the first half of the year at industry.
This involved extra training, an 2.5% overall, reflecting the challenges of examination and criminal background checks improving turnover growth in the UK and for 10,000 of its staff.
such a period of change was excellent at 85%.
In the UK organic growth was negative for the full year, but good cost control and delivery of the cost savings from integrating the two UK security businesses meant that profitability was 18 Operating Review Security Services continued Justice Services in the UK started new contracts in In New Markets organic growth overall was 19.3%, electronic monitoring of offenders and immigration continuing the strong performance of the first half into and much of the year was focused on implementing the remainder of the year.
India, the Middle East, Latin these contracts and on continuously improving service America, South East Asia and Central Asia all levels.
As we expected, profitability in Justice Services performed ahead of expectations.
was reduced in 2005 compared to prior years as a The business in South Africa has settled down result of the terms of the new electronic monitoring following the completion of the merger integration contract which included lower margins, but increased and the conclusion of Black Economic Empowerment geographical coverage and numbers of offenders negotiations.
International Accounts are gaining momentum and we In the Netherlands our manned security business are working hard to make the most of our international performed well and finished 2005 with strong organic footprint to service these customers.
growth, mainly through higher volumes in aviation security contracts.
We concluded the divestment of Falck Security in the Netherlands in November 2005, which was a condition of the Securicor and Group 4 Falck merger.
This meant that stability returned to the Dutch security market.
We expect further improvements in the Netherlands in 2006.
France had a difficult year as the industry was unable to recover government-mandated wage increases from customers during the first half of the year.
We have installed a new management team and expect the business to improve in 2006.
Elsewhere in Europe, there were strong performances in Germany, Austria, Hungary, the Baltic States and Luxembourg.
Profitability in Greece returned to normal levels in 2005, following the boost from the Athens Olympics security contract in 2004.
In the Netherlands our manned security Organic growth in North America was 8.5%, business performed well and finished representing a strong performance in the US, but a 2005 with strong organic growth, mainly difficult year in Canada, which was affected by the full through higher volumes in aviation year impact of the loss of a major contract.
In the US Wackenhut continued its strong performance, with organic growth of 9% overall.
The government and nuclear customer sectors were particularly strong, and In the US Wackenhut continued its the commercial sector also performed ahead of strong performance, with organic growth expectations, assisted by additional revenue relating to of 9% overall.
services provided as a result of the hurricanes in 2005.
In New Markets organic growth overall was 19.3%, continuing the strong performance of the first half into the remainder of the year.
Group 4 Securicor Annual Report & Accounts 2005 CHANGING BOUNDARIES CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT Security Systems Security systems are a key part of our overall security services proposition.
Whilst we do not compete directly on a global basis with major technology companies, we do have expertise across a number of key markets.
This allows us to bring together our skilled security workforce with the latest technology to provide security solutions for our customers.
Our security systems strategy focuses primarily on business customers although we do have consumer customers in some markets.
We expect demand for combined technology and manpower solutions to grow slowly over time and our business is well positioned to take advantage of these market developments.
We also have strong expertise in the specialist areas of CCTV and access control and are able to build these products into our overall security solutions.
SECURITY SYSTEMS TRADING IN 2005 Turnover PBITA Margins At constant m m exchange rates 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 Europe 342.0 323.7 27.7 25.4 8.1% 7.8% North America 3.1 1.9 0.4 0.2 12.9% 10.5% We expect demand for combined New Markets 44.5 29.6 4.0 3.0 9.0% 10.1% technology and manpower solutions to Total 389.6 355.2 32.1 28.6 8.2% 8.1% grow slowly over time and our business is Exchange differences 6.0 - well positioned to take advantage of these market developments.
At actual exchange rates 349.2 28.6 The security systems division achieved overall organic growth of 8.0% in 2005 and margins improved The security systems division achieved to 8.2%.
This shows strong progress over the previous year.
overall organic growth of 8.0% in 2005 and margins improved to 8.2%.
In Europe organic growth in the systems division was 4% overall, a good improvement on the first half of the year.
Our largest systems business in Denmark had a very strong year with good margin improvements.
There was also a good result in Israel and improvements in France and Finland where the businesses moved into profitability in 2005 having made small losses in 2004.
In New Markets systems organic growth was around 49%, continuing the trend of prior years, albeit from a relatively small revenue base.
We continue to introduce security systems capability into many new markets, with particularly positive developments in the Middle East, Latin America and East Africa.
20 Operating Review Cash Services WE PROVIDE A RANGE OF CASH SERVICES INCLUDING CASH TRANSPORTATION, COIN & CASH MANAGEMENT, ATM MANAGEMENT AND REPLENISHMENT, AND FULLYOUTSOURCED CASH CENTRE MANAGEMENT.
The cash services division has developed rapidly in recent years from being a supplier of cash transportation services to a provider of a broad range of outsourced cash management services.
In order to be successful in the cash services market, it is important to have expertise not just in the logistics and management of cash and valuables, but also the cash cycle itself.
By clearly understanding how cash circulates throughout an economy, we can help customers to maximise the efficiency of their cash In order to be successful in the cash management.
services market, it is important to have expertise not just in the logistics and We have experts in all aspects of cash services management of cash and valuables, but throughout the group and we work hard to ensure also the cash cycle itself.
that this expertise is shared across the organisation.
This helps to drive growth and margin improvements.
We invest in technology to protect the cash and We invest in technology to protect the valuables in our care, to continuously improve our cash and valuables in our care, to efficiency and to drive new product development.
This continuously improve our efficiency and has enabled us to move into new product areas such as to drive new product development.
the management of ATM networks, ATM engineering services and cash centre management.
We are currently developing a retail cash management service which will We are currently developing a retail cash vastly improve the efficiency of how cash is managed in management service which will vastly the retail environment.
improve the efficiency of how cash is Countries throughout the world are at different stages managed in the retail environment.
of development in terms of the market for cash services.
With our expertise, we can work with central and commercial banks, retailers and other customers to assist in this market development.
Group 4 Securicor Annual Report & Accounts 2005 CHANGING BOUNDARIES CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT The cash services division covers a wide range of services, focused on the transportation, storage and management of cash and valuables on behalf of banks, retailers and other customers.
Services provided to customers include: J Transport and storage of cash and valuables J Retail cash office management J Outsourced cash centre management J ATM cash replenishment J ATM maintenance J ATM engineering J ATM network management Cash Services Key Markets CASH SERVICES KEY MARKETS Region Market Position by turnover Cash Services UK 1 France 3 Germany 1 Sweden 2 Belgium 1 Netherlands 1 Poland 1 Finland 1 Canada 1 Central & Eastern Europe 1 Middle East 1 Asia 1 Case study Cash Services Finland In Finland, the general public look for the sign 'Otto, ' when they want to get cash from an ATM.
'Otto' actually means 'withdrawal' in Finnish.
There are some 1700 cash-dispensing ATMs in the country, all of which are operated under the single ownership of Automatia which is owned by a number of banks in Finland.
Automatia subcontracts the majority of its cash centre services and transportation of notes and coins to G4S Cash Services Finland which operates through a nationwide network of fourteen branches.
As well as basic cash management services, G4S provides ATM maintenance and cash forecasting services to Automatia.
In Finland, 90% of cash is withdrawn through ATMs, so ensuring they are in working order and fully replenished on a regular basis is an essential service to the public.
G4S and Automatia have had a successful working partnership for many years.
In 1999 Automatia and G4S worked together to develop a currency circulation solution using bank branches and night safes.
This successful partnership continues, and in January 2006 the contract with Automatia was extended for several years, providing an opportunity to develop further innovations in cash management.
Such is the importance of the work undertaken by G4S Cash Services in Finland that, in December 2005, the Managing Director of the business was awarded The Knight of the Order of the White Rose of Finland by the countrys president for his contribution to the cash-carrying and cash processing sectors and the vital role he played in the smooth transition to the Euro.
The cash services division achieved CASH SERVICES TRADING IN 2005 overall organic growth of 6.2% in 2005 Turnover PBITA Margins and margins grew strongly to 8.9%.
At constant m m exchange rates 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 Europe 688.6 640.2 58.4 44.7 8.5% 7.0% The UK cash services business performed North America 76.9 69.6 2.8 4.2 3.6% 6.0% very strongly in 2005, achieving good New Markets 100.5 75.7 15.5 11.7 15.4% 15.5% growth and improving profitability whilst absorbing a significant pay award.
Total 866.0 785.5 76.7 60.6 8.9% 7.7% Exchange differences 11.5 1.0 At actual exchange rates 774.0 59.6 In New Markets there was strong organic growth of around 20%.
The cash services division achieved overall organic The performance in Germany has greatly improved growth of 6.2% in 2005 and margins grew strongly compared to prior years, although the business remains to 8.9%.
In France, increased security and wage costs have proved difficult to pass on to customers.
Overall organic growth in Europe was 5.8%, in line Finland, Ireland, and Belgium are all performing well and with the first half of 2005 despite a significant reduction in turnover in Germany caused by major price Sweden showed signs of improvement in the last quarter of 2005, with a new management team driving the reductions across the whole of the German market.
The UK cash services business performed very strongly in 2005, achieving good growth In North America, the business in Canada is recovering from a substantial robbery, leading to additional security and improving profitability whilst absorbing a significant pay award and maintaining very high costs.
New management have been appointed and we expect the business to be back on track during the first levels of customer service.
There were good growth and margin improvements In New Markets, there was strong organic growth of in the Netherlands due to excellent cost control around 20%.
Whilst all markets saw further developments and new business wins in the banking sector.
in bank and ATM outsourcing, growth was particularly strong in South East Asia, the Middle East and East Africa.
