HALMA Operating Review Fire and Gas Fire and Gas turnover Fire and Gas turnover and approval is a major driver in the Sector Overview 2005 75.5m fire industry and a powerful barrier to 2004 75.0m market entry.
Our businesses invest We are world leaders in sensors that considerable time in maintaining close detect life-threatening fire and gas relations with approval and regulatory hazards.
Our products warn people authorities.
To sell fire detectors on a of imminent danger and give them worldwide basis, we hold 1500 product time to escape.
An important recent project countries, our fire detectors protect has been product development to people and buildings from the risk of Fire and Gas profit Fire and Gas profit satisfy the new EU Construction 2005 16.7m fire.
Our gas detectors safeguard Products Directive.
This applies to all the lives of industrial workers by 2004 16.6m 25 member states from June 2005. alerting them to the presence of toxic or explosive gases.
We also Continuous product innovation is a make specialist products for key sales growth factor in this sector.
The Alongside new fire detector ranges, principal sales channels for fire we launched new emergency detectors are distributors and fire Segmental turnover, 2005 Segmental turnover, 2005 evacuation products, including alarm installers: gas detector Fire and Gas directional and programmable customers range from lone Water sounders, and devices to guide people contractors to multinationals.
During out of smoke-filled buildings.
Elevator and Door Safety 2004 05 our Fire and Gas sector companies produced 25% of Group Process Safety Gas detector profits continued to rise, turnover and 33% of operating Resistors supported by new product launches in profit.
the portable and fixed systems Optics and Specialist markets.
Gasman, a single gas 75.0 m Our businesses in the Fire and Gas detection instrument and market sector achieved record sales during leader in terms of size, weight and 2004 05, with profits slightly ahead.
performance, is a key new product.
The fire detector market is a very competitive environment mostly Last years restructuring of our dominated by large multinationals.
European gas detector sales operations During 2004 05 there were many Segmental profit, 2005 Segmental profit, 2005 delivered improved sales and profits.
competitor acquisitions and Fire and Gas We strengthened our sales routes in consolidations.
Despite such market the US, producing record revenues and Water pressures, we increased market share an excellent platform for future and remain the second largest maker Elevator and Door Safety growth.
Pricing pressure, particularly in of commercial grade fire detectors Process Safety portable gas detectors, remained worldwide.
Resistors strong, but operational improvements ensured an increase in gross margins.
Optics and Specialist We achieved double-digit fire detector m 20.0 sales growth in Eastern Europe and The small-scale power generation major increases in the Middle East, before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation see Note 1 on the market based on fuel cells is now India and the Far East.
This Accounts commercialised and sales of gas compensated for subdued sales in conditioning products are growing.
A key differentiator for However, most business continues to our fire products companies is industrybe for prototyping projects.
Within this leading customer service.
To reinforce market, our hydrogen humidification this competitive advantage, in 2004 05 systems are being extended to handle we set up technical centres in Spain, high pressure fuel cells as developers the US, Ireland, India and China.
attempt to produce more efficient, lower cost systems.
This is a long-term Increasing regulatory product testing growth opportunity.
16 Halma p. l. c. 2005 Our fire and gas products protect people and plant worldwide.
Halma p. l. c. 2005 17 HALMA Operating Review Water Water turnover Water turnover businesses in recent years has led to a Sector Overview 2005 32.5m 50% increase in sales of these 2004 34.5m instruments in 2004 05 and allowed us We own world-leading businesses in to penetrate the fast-growing market three water industry sectors: for monitoring wastewater and flow.
ultraviolet light UV water treatment, instruments for Sales of UV equipment outside of the monitoring and controlling water US market returned to growth.
distribution, and water quality However, delays in closing US analysis.
These markets are global Water profit Water profit contracts led to a decline in total UV 2005 2.6m and we make substantial sales equipment sales.
We won an important worldwide.
Our principal customers 2004 5.8m contract, phase II of the Houston are drinking water supply CrossFlow drinking water project.
A companies, municipal authorities, reorganisation of the US sales food manufacturers and the process operation has started to deliver major industries.
Based in the UK, the improvements, with the 2005 06 order Netherlands, France and the US, book substantially ahead.
during 2004 05 our Water sector Segmental turnover, 2005 Segmental turnover, 2005 companies produced 11% of Group Fire and Gas Outbreaks of water-borne disease turnover and 5% of operating profit.
Water create demand for our disinfection technology.
Following an outbreak of Elevator and Door Safety While Water sector sales were giardiasis in the Norwegian city of maintained at a slightly reduced level, Process Safety Bergens drinking water supply, we profits in this sector were substantially Resistors won a significant order.
UV sales to the below the prior year.
Optics and Specialist swimming pool sector, where our companies are dominant, continued m 75.0 During 2004 05 we saw significant strongly, benefiting from increased changes in the market for instruments awareness of health risks from to conserve water in distribution chlorination by-products.
Our water supply customers investment in product approvals has faced pressures to cut costs.
This created an excellent foundation for created demand for lower margin securing future drinking water instruments to monitor and control Segmental profit, 2005 Segmental profit, 2005 projects.
We believe we are the first water networks in a preventative way, Fire and Gas company with medium pressure UV in addition to diagnostic leak location technology that complies with the new Water instruments.
In response, we European testing criteria.
UV sales to restructured the product ranges and Elevator and Door Safety South East Asia continued to grow organisation of several companies in Process Safety because our equipment provides this sector.
As part of this process we Resistors significant performance advantages upgraded a number of products in the and lower capital costs than competing Optics and Specialist field which led to some stock writesystems.
This involved substantial costs but expanded our UV lamp manufacturing has produced a much stronger base for before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation see Note 1 on the capacity to meet growing demand.
An important contract for leak Accounts detection equipment in the city of El Sales and profits at our water testing Paso, Texas, was smaller in scale than business reached record levels.
We the very successful Las Vegas contract launched an innovative new product, in the previous year.
However, it called Cool Pool Tester.
This transfers represented useful progress in a advanced photometric water analysis market where we continue to make a technology developed for professional significant investment in anticipation of laboratory users into the domestic future returns.
Acquisition of data swimming pool market.
logging and data transmission 18 Halma p. l. c. 2005 We are the world leader in UV treatment of swimming pool water.
Halma p. l. c. 2005 19 HALMA Operating Review Elevator and Door Safety Elevator and Door Safety turnove Elevator and Door Safety turnover r and also in Japan where we now have Sector Overview 2005 62.5m three sales offices.
2004 65.1m Our businesses in this sector are We won worthwhile new business from world leaders in products that the New York City Transit Authority for protect people using elevators and station platforms emergency automatic doors from harm.
We communications systems, most of make infrared and microwave based which will be shipped in 2005 06. sensors that control the operation However, voice communication of elevator doors and automatic Elevator and Door Safety profit Elevator and Door Safety profit equipment sales fell significantly.
To 2005 11.5m pedestrian and industrial doors.
turn this around, we have merged this They safeguard users, improve 2004 12.1m telecoms business with our US elevator accessibility for the disabled and safety products company to benefit optimise traffic flow.
We also make from its strong sales management voice communication and display skills and well developed sales products for elevators.
businesses are based in Belgium, the UK, New Zealand, the US, Segmental turnover, 2005 Segmental turnover, 2005 Recent European legislation mandates Singapore and China.
Fire and Gas that elevators must be fitted with Water emergency voice communication The elevator and automatic door systems.
This has created a valuable Elevator and Door Safety markets separate into new new market: we estimate that 90,000 construction and building Process Safety new elevators are commissioned every refurbishment, with our sales equally Resistors year in the EU.
We have developed a split between the two.
Customers in new elevator telephone system which Optics and Specialist the new-build sector are generally enables building operators to comply 75.0 m multinational elevator and door fully with the new regulations.
Refurbishment have also opened a new sales office in customers tend to be local Italy where an estimated 90% of contractors.
During 2004 05, this elevators do not meet EU standards.
sector produced 21% of Group turnover and 23% of operating The more prominent risk in this sector profit.
Segmental profit, 2005 Segmental profit, 2005 relative to others is the unpredictable Fire and Gas impact of the proposed Chinese Although overall sales and profit in this currency revaluation.
A significant Water sector fell slightly, we generated proportion of our elevator and door significant sales growth in the core Elevator and Door Safety products are made in China and a elevator and door product groups, Process Safety revaluation of the Yuan may increase particularly in Asia and Europe.
An Resistors production costs and squeeze margins.
underlying sector-wide advance in sales Optics and Specialist and profit was offset by unfavourable Given continued global economic 20.0 currency movements and a m development, market prospects for disappointing performance by our before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation see Note 1 on the elevator and automatic door safety emergency telecoms business.
With Accounts products are positive in the long term.
less than 10% of sales in this sector in The key drivers are urbanisation, the UK, its headline performance is population growth and accessibility for vulnerable to Sterling exchange rates.
These factors create demand for high rise buildings, We maintained our market share in requiring elevator controls, and also automatic door control sensors despite large buildings with automatic doors.
lower door control sales in the US due Demand for our products is continually to a large refurbishment contract in rising due to concern in most countries 2003 04.
Record profits were about public safety.
achieved, aided by rising sales in China 20 Halma p. l. c. 2005 At the Jin Mao Tower, Shanghai, visitors are protected by our door safety products.
Halma p. l. c. 2005 21 HALMA Operating Review Process Safety Process Safety turnover Process Safety turnover safeguard exploration, production and Sector Overview 2005 36.2m refining operations worldwide.
We are 2004 36.0m the world leader in valve interlock Our Process Safety businesses help control systems and satisfy a customers protect their human and significant percentage of total world capital assets.
With steady global economic workplaces where employees are development, demand for oil and gas safeguarded from injury and plant is will continue to rise, with production protected from damage.
Gas flaring, world leaders in access control Process Safety profit Process Safety profit where gas from oil wells is simply 2005 6.5m products called trapped-key burned, will be outlawed worldwide interlocks.
These separate people 2004 6.6m by 2008 and new infrastructure from hazards, such as moving projects should underwrite long-term machinery, and prevent dangerous market growth.
Our second Process Safety specialism In the general industrial market, sales is bursting discs.
These products and profit growth will be achieved by minimise explosion risks, for example Segmental turnover, 2005 Segmental turnover, 2005 product innovation and penetration of in chemical plants, protecting Fire and Gas new markets.
The Chinese process workers and capital investment, and Water safety market is growing, but not as preventing environmental pollution.
fast as more developed parts of Customers for Process Safety Elevator and Door Safety Eastern Europe.
Our Salvo safety products range from one-man Process Safety system is an example of product businesses to multinational Resistors innovation and entry into a completely corporations: the markets are global.
This product ensures that Optics and Specialist Based in the UK, the US, Mainland a vehicle cannot leave a loading bay m 75.0 Europe and Australia, our Process until it is safe to do so, preventing Safety companies generated 12% of potentially fatal accidents to fork-lift Group turnover and 13% of operators.
Salvo has generated operating profit in 2004 05. substantial sales in its first year, in a market sector with significant potential.
Overall sectoral performance was in line with the prior year.
Bursting disc With double-digit profit growth our Segmental profit, 2005 Segmental profit, 2005 sales moved significantly ahead, Fire and Gas bursting disc businesses had an benefiting from last years excellent year.
Further growth will Water reorganisation and investment.
come from extending sales into high Interlock sales in the US and France Elevator and Door Safety growth markets in Eastern Europe were disappointing although in the UK Process Safety and Asia.
and the rest of Europe they grew Resistors modestly.
Our growth strategy in this A slowdown or reverse in global sector centres on increasing sales of Optics and Specialist economic development, or slow our established technologies into the m 20.0 adoption of health and safety new markets of the developing world, before interest, tax and goodwill legislation in Eastern Europe and Asia, amortisation see Note 1 on the where increased safety awareness and Accounts could delay progress in this sector, health and safety legislation is as could a downturn in key markets.
We aim However, we believe that prospects to maintain our position of niche for steady growth in this sector still market leadership in the mature exist.
With continued global economic industrial markets through innovative development, and rapid industrial new products and new applications.
development in the enlarged EU and China, the longer term market The oil and gas business is an drivers remain.
important market where our products 22 Halma p. l. c. 2005 Our valve interlocks help ensure that oil and gas plants are operated safely.
Halma p. l. c. 2005 23 HALMA Operating Review Resistors Resistors turnover Resistors turnover is the adoption of this technology in Sector Overview 2005 27.7m hospitals and data centres.
Sales into 2004 27.2m this market rose 15% in 2004 05 and Our high power resistors are used to we sold earth fault protection systems dissipate excess electrical energy, into South East Asia for the first time.
control the speed of large electric motors, protect electrical power During 2004 05 sales of transit distribution systems from damage resistors, which are used to control and for electrical safety.
braking on locomotives and trams, Resistors profit Resistors profit generated poor margins.
We took 2005 1.4m The combined engineering and action to cut overheads and increase marketing resources of our five 2004 2.2m manufacturing efficiency by businesses in this sector make us consolidating all transit resistor the world leader in power resistors.
production at a single US location.
Our customers in this sector are However, a combination of competitive mainly in power generation, the pricing and margin volatility due to process industries and transit unpredictable raw material costs has systems manufacturers.
Large Segmental turnover, 2005 Segmental turnover, 2005 made this niche market relatively contracts, won via competitive Fire and Gas unattractive.
We may consider tendering, account for a higher than Water withdrawing from transit resistor average proportion of sales.
Elevator and Door Safety in the US, Canada, Australia and the UK, our Resistor businesses Process Safety A market targeted for growth two contributed 9% of Group sales and Resistors years ago, braking resistors on the 3% of operating profit in 2004 05. huge trucks used to transport ore in Optics and Specialist open-cast mines, is now generating 75.0 m While overall sales edged 7% ahead in significant sales.
We are now the this sector, profits fell back.
This was established leader in the replacement partly due to a steep rise in stainless aftermarket and we are working with steel raw materials costs.
We were several truck makers to become the able to increase prices, but part of the original equipment supplier too.
steel price rise had to be absorbed and margins suffered.
Together with the Segmental profit, 2005 Segmental profit, 2005 We plan to maintain sales growth in impact of unfavourable exchange rate Fire and Gas 2005 06, focussing on the launch of movements, these factors hindered innovative dynamic braking and Water any underlying profit progress.
Our electronic ground fault relay products.
long-term goal of reducing dependency Elevator and Door Safety We will also aim to grow sales of filter on the US market by increasing the Process Safety resistors which are used by power proportion of US export sales is Resistors companies to control the quality of succeeding.
Resistor exports rose by their electrical supplies.
Our primary Optics and Specialist 40% in 2004 05 and non-US sales now geographical growth target is Asia, 20.0 contribute 51% of sectoral sales.
m particularly China where we have before interest, tax and goodwill established a local partnership.
amortisation see Note 1 on the A major growth target is the Accounts development of new markets and While returns and prospects for products to safeguard workers and Resistors are still good by peer protect capital equipment from standards, the sector is under damage caused by electrical earth particular scrutiny as part of our faults.
Recognition of the danger posed normal strategic reviews.
by earth faults is growing among heavy electrical users and our products are the most efficient method of mitigating this hazard.
A positive trend 24 Halma p. l. c. 2005 Internet switching and data centres are a growing market for our resistor systems.
Halma p. l. c. 2005 25 HALMA Operating Review Optics and Specialist Optics and Specialist turnover Optics and Specialist turnover Our fluid technology companies Sector Overview 2005 65.4m maintained growth in core markets and 2004 42.8m in new applications, delivering record We are world leaders in two areas of sales.
The primary market, life science optical technology.
We make instrumentation, continues to grow in ophthalmic instruments and special the high single digit range.
We expect lenses for the medical market.
this growth pattern to continue, driven These test eyesight, diagnose ocular by increased testing and discovery disease and enable eye surgery.
Our requirements due to increases in second optical specialism is electroOptics and Specialist profit Optics and Specialist profit population, and both pharmaceutical 2005 11.6m optical instruments spectrometers and biotech research.
During 2004 05 mainly used for colour measurement 2004 7.1m the United States Postal Service and material analysis.
We sell our completed installation of biological optical products into global markets hazard detection equipment containing and exports are a high proportion of our components, creating an ongoing sales.
Our other main focus in this spares business.
The acquisition of sector is on high precision, Diba Industries in May 2004 miniature fluid control products used Segmental turnover, 2005 Segmental turnover, 2005 strengthened our presence in this in analytical instrumentation.
These Fire and Gas market.
The company continues to fluid technology products are sold Water perform to expectations and recently primarily to high tech instrument won an important contract to supply a Elevator and Door Safety manufacturers.
Based in the US and world-leading manufacturer of blood the UK our Optics and Specialist Process Safety analysis instruments, with deliveries companies contributed 22% of Resistors starting in 2005 06.
Group turnover and 23% of Optics and Specialist operating profit.
Since its acquisition in June 2004, m 75.0 spectrometer manufacturer Ocean The Optics and Specialist businesses Optics has achieved record sales and produced excellent results, establishing profits, exceeding expectations at the new sales and profit records.
Strong growth sectoral profit growth was reduced by continued in all export markets, increased corporate management including Europe and Japan.
This charges which are included as part of Segmental profit, 2005 Segmental profit, 2005 company has maintained its market this sector and a lower level of Fire and Gas position of disruptive innovator, performance from certain Specialist extending the analytical capability of Water businesses.
Elevator and Door Safety Our ophthalmic optics companies Process Safety During 2004 05 we launched an benefited from market expansion due Resistors unrivalled optical colour changing to global population growth and system for theatrical and Optics and Specialist produced strong results.
Export sales entertainment industry lighting based m 20.0 grew significantly: future export on patented thin film coating growth is targeted on Asia.
Ophthalmic before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation see Note 1 on the technology.
Significant sales were lens sales produced record profits, Accounts achieved into research laboratories of aided by a very successful new product products based on an advanced launch.
Demand for ophthalmic analytical technique which uses lasers instruments was boosted by a new to vaporise samples for analysis.
The cordless, battery-powered indirect product line is now being developed for ophthalmoscope.
A unique product, it volume production to open up this continues to sell very well in the US, market in 2005 06.
Our spectrometers its target market.
Close relationships will be built into a forthcoming NASA with leading ophthalmologists help us space project designed to search for develop new products that complement signs of life on the planet Mars.
26 Halma p. l. c. 2005 Our spectrometers will analyse rocks on a future NASA mission to Mars.
Photo: NASA Science Photo Library.
