Operating review Brian McLaughlin The 2004 05 financial year has been one of further progress for the Group.
In a challenging economic environment, particularly in our UK businesses, the Group continued to grow sales and profits and to generate cash.
The success of the Groups specialist retail formats was especially evident from the strong trading performance delivered over the key Christmas period.
The period under review is the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2005, whereas the prior period covers the 52 weeks to 24 April 2004.
The following commentary, where applicable, excludes the benefit of the 53rd week.
2 Constant exchange growth for the 52 week period compared with the corresponding period last year is based on the weighted average exchange rates for the 52 weeks ended 24 April 2004.
3 HMV Groups like for like sales performance measures stores that were open at the beginning of the previous financial year i. e. open at the beginning of May 2003 and that have not been expanded, closed or resited during that time.
It includes sales from Internet sites in the UK, Japan and Australia.
Like for like sales growth is calculated at constant exchange rates and is for the 52 week period.
Stores resized up or down are excluded from like for like sales performance.
Sales are only ever the net amount received.
4 The profit adjustment for the 53rd week reflects gross margin on sales less directly attributable variable operating costs.
21 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 HMV UK & Ireland HMV UK & Ireland generated another year of sales Reflecting a continuing commitment to retaining its and profit growth.
While an excellent Christmas position as the UKs pre-eminent, market-leading music performance underpinned the result, an increasingly retailer, HMV further increased its music market share subdued consumer environment in the UK made an by 1.9% points during the year, and outperformed the already competitive market ever more challenging.
market by increasing the volume of albums sold by over However, the strength of the HMV brand and the 6% whilst in the rest of the market volumes declined resilience of our specialist retail proposition ensured by almost 4% in the year.
Bestselling CD albums of the a consistently strong market share performance.
year at HMV UK included Scissor Sisters, Keane and Total sales increased 6.0%, driven by the Maroon 5. successful store opening programme, with like for like The UK games market had another challenging sales growth flat.
The profit generation from new store year, due largely to a shortage of hardware consoles investment contributed to a 1.3m increase in operating over the key Christmas season.
However, with next profit to 96.8m.
Operating margin was down by generation consoles due to launch in the coming year, 50 basis points to 9.8% due to a fall in gross margin a foretaste of the potential growth opportunities was of 20 basis points, underlying cost inflation and the provided by the successful release in the final quarter start up costs of HMVs digital downloading offer.
of the Nintendo DS console.
The video market continues to grow in importance, In recognition of HMV UK & Irelands retailing with DVD now representing 44% of HMV UK & Irelands expertise across each of its main product categories, total sales mix.
With sales up 27% during the year, HMV UK & Ireland was named Best Retail Chain at the DVD remains a key sales driver for the business, 2005 Music Week awards, Retail Success of the Year and our focus remains on maximising the potential at the British Video Association Awards and General of the growing number of back catalogue titles, Retailer of the Year in the MCV Industry Excellence whilst maintaining a competitive offer on new Awards for the Games Industry.
This is the first time mainstream releases.
This strategy has helped that all of the major entertainment industry awards consolidate HMVs position as the market leader in have been held simultaneously by a single retailer.
DVD, with share held despite an intensely competitive 23 new stores, covering in excess of 85,000 square market.
Bestsellers in the year included Little Britain: feet were opened in the UK & Ireland during the period, The Complete First Series, Kill Bill Volume 2 and three stores were resited and one store was closed, The Lord of the Rings the Return of the King.
bringing the portfolio to 201, with a further four new stores and one resite opened since the year end.
The focus for our new store openings continues to be on small and medium-size communities, and new store locations this year included Birkenhead, Derry, Huddersfield, Windsor, Cardiff resite and Galway.
The pipeline for new stores remains strong, and in the new financial year we expect to open around 25 new stores.
Left: 200th store opened Below: Retail expertise HMV UK & Irelands 200th HMV UK & Ireland holds store opened during the the major entertainment year, situated at Galway industry awards for in Ireland.
Major industry awards were also won by HMV Canada and Waterstones during the year.
22 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 HMV Asia Pacific HMV Asia Pacific operates through 91 stores, including 53 in Japan, 33 in Australia and a total of five stores in Hong Kong and Singapore.
Total sales increased by 3.3% at constant exchange rates.
This includes a like for like decline of 1.7%, offset by the successful opening of eight new stores in HMV Japan, covering 40,000 square feet.
The like for like sales decline predominantly reflects a difficult Japanese market.
In music, while HMV gained share this was in the context of a total market down some 11%, reflecting the continuing lack of large-selling domestic J-pop releases.
The adverse impact of the music market was not fully offset by the growth in DVD, where the market is less well developed than in the UK and North America.
However, the investment in new store openings in HMV Japan continued to achieve consistent and rapid returns, and the business is beginning to benefit from the Blueprint project.
During the year this focused on the identification of best-practice merchandising and ranging techniques, which are now being implemented across HMV Japans store portfolio.
Elsewhere in Asia Pacific, HMV Hong Kong delivered a significant improvement in sales and profitability, but this was offset by a difficult market in Australia, where a head office restructuring was 3bn undertaken at the end of the year to reposition the UK games market is forecast to grow by 44% business for improved profitability.
Operating profit in HMV Asia Pacific was down 1.5% on last year at constant exchange rates.
This reflected gross margin dilution of 40 basis points due to the growth of lower margin DVD sales, partly offset by good cost control.
40 000 HMV Japan added an additional 40,000 square feet of trading space during the year.
Above: Kagoshima Above: Japanese playlist Investment in new stores Best practice merchandising in Japan continued to techniques are beginning to achieve consistent and show the benefits of their rapid returns.
Right: Website success The www.
co. jp website is a vital distribution channel to our Japanese customers and substantially increased its sales during the year.
23 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 HMV Canada With 102 stores, including three opened during DVD now accounts for over 41% of HMV Canadas the period, HMV Canada operates from over business and sales of the format also grew by 40% 430,000 square feet of retail space.
The business during the year.
HMV Canada has continued to build had an outstanding year, with total sales up by on the foundations laid last year to establish a strong 15.3% at constant exchange rates, including like reputation as a DVD specialist retailer with a particular for like growth of 13.5% and a record stockturn of focus on expanding the range, successfully targeted 6.6x.
Operating profit performance was even more promotional activities and improving relationships impressive, with growth of 75.6% at constant with suppliers.
During the year the three remaining HMV USA HMV Canada achieved sales growth in both music stores were closed, as the Group completed its exit and DVD, reflecting improvements in retail expertise from its legacy US business.
At constant exchange rates and the brands fast-growing reputation as a specialist and including the results of HMV USA, total sales for DVD retailer.
HMV North America increased by 5.2%.
The total Canadian music market grew by almost Operating profit excluding the benefit of closing 4% in the period, and HMV Canada significantly HMV USA, which recorded a 2.0m operating loss outperformed the market to increase its market share last year, increased by 3.2m 75.6% at constant by 1.6%.
This was achieved through a combination exchange rates.
This reflected the strength of the sales of competitively priced new releases, strong back performance and excellent cost control, although the catalogue campaigns, effective advertising and an adverse mix effect of lower margins achieved on DVD improved release schedule.
This success was diluted gross margins by 70 basis points.
recognised by the Canadian Music Industry Awards, HMV Canada is also pleased to announce that it which named HMV Canada Best Retail Chain for the is taking over the 40,000 square feet Virgin megastore 17th consecutive year, and by Canadian Entertainment located in Vancouver, where the business was previously Network, which for the first time awarded DVD Retail underrepresented.
This significant development, Chain of the Year to HMV Canada.
combined with the excellent progress made during the year, sees HMV Canada well-positioned for further sales and profit growth in the forthcoming year.
40% Sales of DVD grew by 40% in HMV Canada and are now 41% of the sales mix.
Below: Innovative Left and below: promotions Store appearances HMV Canadas fast growing HMV Canadas music reputation as a specialist performance also DVD retailer was boosted improved during on the launch of Shrek 2 the year, supported by when every store turned Green Day left and green for the day.
24 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Waterstones In Waterstones total sales grew by 2.6%, including like Elements of the HMV Blueprint have been successfully for like sales growth of 1.3%.
This reflected strong sales applied, particularly in areas such as stock management, growth in the first half combined with an excellent range authority, location strategy and training and Christmas period, followed by a weaker final quarter development of employees.
We are very pleased with consistent with the overall deterioration in UK consumer the progress made against our IPO commitment to confidence.
Waterstones maintained its market leading restore Waterstones to growth, but can see opportunities position although market share was slightly diluted for further improvements.
These improvements over the year, reflecting a planned, more targeted including, for example, the implementation of space approach to campaigns and promotions.
planning technology, will lead to increasing returns Operating profit increased by 0.4% to 26.1m, on our investments and an enhanced customer offer.
including 1.6m of pre-opening costs relating to The hard work and commitment shown by Waterstones the new superstore on Oxford Street in London.
employees was recognised by the British Book Trade Underlying profit before pre-opening costs was Awards, which for the first time in several years voted up 6.6% and net margin was up 0.2% reflecting the chain Bookselling Company of the Year 2005. improvements in gross margin partially offset by Seven new stores were successfully opened in increased rental costs.
Investments in technology, the period and six small stores were closed, bringing such as the Phoenix Version 9 inventory management the portfolio at the year end to 194 stores trading from system, continued to deliver benefits with stockturn 1.3m square feet.
New locations included the 20,000 up to a record 4.2 times from 3.9 times last year and square feet superstore on Oxford Street in London, the chain achieved negative average working capital Newry, Lisburn and Redditch.
The results of the new for the first time in its history.
store opening programme enable us to look forward In the three years since investment began in the with confidence to further increasing the chains UK skills and infrastructure of the business, Waterstones presence during the new financial year.
has been transformed into one of the most efficient booksellers in the world.
Sales and operating profits have increased and average working capital has been reduced by 30m.
4.2x Waterstones stockturn reached a record 4.2x, enabling it to achieve negative average working capital for the first time.
Below: Award-winning Left: Store appearances fiction The many high-profile With a vast array of fiction store appearances over to choose from, Waterstones the past 12 months booksellers offer valuable included Michael Palin.
advice on award-winning literary titles or the latest blockbuster for the beach.
Above and left: New stores New stores included Oxford Street left and Coleraine above.
25 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005
