operating and financial review operations review severe service Ian Whiting President CCI organic sales growth was 18% with growth in order intake running David Nicholas Executive Director at a similar level Another year of strong growth in our Severe Service business fluid controls further demonstrates our ability to capture opportunities in the buoyant power and oil & gas markets.
Organic sales growth was 18% with growth in order intake running at a similar level.
Our focus on targeted market New valves continue to drive the majority of the growth with sectors is enabling the Fluid the power markets in Asia and the oil & gas markets in the Controls businesses to increase Middle East particularly strong.
Although the current focus is on new valve opportunities, our after-market customer service the level of expertise, insight business continues to increase with the rate of growth and innovation available to improved over last year.
In addition, government mandated maintenance programmes have generated good demand in customers, giving significant our Nuclear Services business for strainer equipment for nuclear benefits to both them and us.
Our presence in Japan and the Asian markets has been significantly strengthened by the acquisition in November 2005 of the ABB control valves business and the investments in businesses in Korea and China.
With the market outlook remaining very positive and a strong order backlog, we are well positioned going into 2006. five platform businesses engineering solutions in clearly IMI plc is the ultimate holding company of the Group and has Group activities been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1966.
The Group activities are organised around two main business At 31 December 2005 it had a market value of 1.7bn and areas.
Fluid Controls and Retail Dispense together comprise shareholders funds of 418m.
The companys headquarters is five businesses providing knowledge-based engineering at Lakeside, Birmingham Business Park, England.
IMI Group solutions in clearly defined niche markets.
The common goal trading activities are carried on through subsidiary companies.
of all five is to deliver innovative and complete solutions for a highly targeted group of leading global customers.
6 Operations review fluid power indoor climate Roy Twite Jim Mannebach President President Norgren Indoor Climate operating margins we are using our have improved considerable brand considerably and have strength with the now reached 12% launch of new products Our Fluid Power business continued the encouraging progress Despite low growth and significant new material price inflation, seen over the last few years with the momentum being particularly copper, Indoor Climate produced another resilient maintained both in growing sector sales and operational performance.
Lower thermostatic radiator valve TRV sales in improvements.
Overall organic sales growth was around 4% Germany were offset by improved sales elsewhere, particularly despite relatively subdued European end markets.
Sales of balancing valves across Europe growth was again led by Global Truck and the acquisition of GT improved in the second half to finish overall ahead of last year Development in November strengthens further our product and and this offers encouragement for 2006.
We continue to gain market position.
The medical and printing and packaging sectors momentum in our focus on targeted markets and sectors and also showed good growth.
Syron, our in-plant automotive tooling have had good success with PFI contracts in the UK, project business bought in February 2005 made a good contribution in wins in the Middle East and Asia, and further growth in its first year.
In the general pneumatics market, the US and Asia Eastern Europe.
Pacific had another positive year.
In Europe the markets were We are increasingly looking at using our considerable brand somewhat mixed although recent order trends have been more strength with the launch of some new products which will encouraging.
We have recently launched an innovative European be available in 2006.
Indoor Climate remains a highly focused web based direct sales initiative aimed at improving product business with strong brand names and leading market availability and service for a focused group of smaller customers: positions.
results to date have been encouraging.
Operating margins have improved considerably over the last few years and have now reached 12%.
We have identified a number of initiatives to improve this further and have recently announced the transfer of more production from our US Littleton operations to our lower cost facility in Mexico.
providing knowledge-based defined niche markets In Fluid Controls our businesses share similar technologies to Our Retail Dispense businesses share merchandising know-how drive efficiency.
Severe Service principally operates in the to drive incremental volume for our customers.
Beverage power generation and oil & gas markets: Fluid Power provides Dispense designs and manufactures still and carbonated essential pneumatic systems for original equipment beverage dispense systems to help multinational businesses manufacturers in markets such as commercial vehicles, sell in draught form their highly branded alcoholic and soft medical, printing and packaging and in-plant automotive: drinks: Merchandising Systems designs and supplies point of Indoor Climate services building and facility operators, aiding purchase PoP displays to enable brand owners and retailers energy conservation and personal comfort.
to increase sales in retail outlets.
7 IMI plc Annual Report 2005 operating and financial review operations review beverage dispense David Storey Mark Kelly President Cornelius Inc. President Cornelius Europe new products and initiatives will further our undoubted Wayne Whitney Executive Director leadership position In the US, consumer confidence has in the main remained retail dispense positive throughout 2005 with increased restaurant traffic across the sector.
Beverage Dispense in the US has benefited and produced a strong underlying performance both in the brand Increasingly, our customers owner and foodservice businesses.
We did particularly well value the outstanding within the convenience and gas category and developed combination of market further our relationship with national accounts including the recognition earned from YUM!
Brands as its Global Equipment knowledge, deep consumer Supplier of the Year.
Operationally, transfer of manufacturing to insight and engineering China and Mexico has continued and lower cost procurement has been driven robustly.
Our US beverage parts operation is expertise that increases their gaining momentum and will be strengthened by the acquisition retail sales, promotes their in November 2005 of Northern Parts.
In Europe both the soft brands and makes a significant drink and beer markets have been disappointing for most of the year although recently the trend has improved.
In the UK the difference to their business second half has seen improving beer equipment sales.
now established a manufacturing presence in the Ukraine to access the growing Ukraine and Russian beer markets.
Asia Pacific continues to offer good potential and growth has again been strong in 2005.
We continue to look at the markets we serve to develop new products and initiatives which will further our undoubted leadership position.
The Group serves all the major geographical markets where our analysis of sales customers are present.
In 2005 these are summarised for continuing businesses in the chart provided here.
The Building Products Group was disposed of in September 2005.
8 Operations review merchandising systems Rich Krause President Cannon Solutions we continue to invest in unique research and technology tools It was always going to be difficult to maintain the rate of growth in Merchandising Systems especially in the absence of large one-off contracts enjoyed in the previous two years.
Nevertheless, there were many successes in 2005.
Display Technologies had an excellent year with a strong performance in the beverage, packaged and bulk food sectors.
Front-end merchandising and display carts achieved further growth and we continued to develop in the home improvement sector.
In the cosmetics sector, volumes again improved and we also obtained our first significant commitment from a major US brand owner.
In the high growth consumer electronics sector we secured new business in mobile telephones and childrens teaching aids.
In the automotive sector, as expected, activity was lower in merchandising for car showrooms in the US, resulting in lower sales than last year.
However, it is encouraging that in recent months we have secured over $100m in extensions of existing or new three to five year contracts within the automotive sector.
We continue to invest in unique research and technology tools to help drive tangible benefits for our customers.
% of Group sales % of Group profit % of sales Fluid Retail IMI Controls Dispense Group Fluid Retail Fluid Retail UK 10 16 12 Controls Dispense Controls Dispense 65% 35% 70% 30% Rest of 877m 464m 112m 47m Europe 51 12 38 US 20 63 35 Other 19 9 15 before tax, exceptional items and amortisation 9 IMI plc Annual Report 2005
