10 UNiqUely placed LAND SECTOR OVERVIEW MARITIME SECTOR OVERVIEW AERONAUTICAL SECTOR OVERVIEW Review of Operations MSS revenue MSS revenue MSS revenue 26% 5% 2005 2005 2005 MSS MSS MSS revenue revenue revenue 56% ILand 26% IMaritime 56% IAeronautical 5% 2005 2005 2005 IOther 74% IOther 44% IOther 95% Land revenue Maritime revenue Aero revenue 19% 23% 2005 2005 2005 38% Land Maritime Aero IVoice 19% IVoice 38% IVoice 23% 2005 2005 2005 IData 81% IData 62% IData 77% 62% 77% 81% Maritime sector 2005 was a significant year for Inmarsat.
It was the realisation during the 2005 financial year, the maritime of a US$1.5 billion five-year project: the Inmarsat-4 programme.
sector represented us$267.1 million of our total revenues 2004: us$251.4 million, an We saw the successful launch of two new satellites and of the increase of 6%.
We have seen data usage BGAN service.
Their arrival also meant the introduction of new grow strongly over the last few years and 2005 was no exception with an increase  and new business-support systems to of 13% year-on-year.
our voice revenues have been affected by the migration of users support BGAN.
from our higher-priced analogue Inmarsat A service to our lower priced digital services and by competition.
With the exception of our Inmarsat A service, our maritime services are digital, and typically offer high-speed data transmission rates throughout this period of intense activity, through service providers.
We operate in designed to meet increasing demand from the core revenue stream of our business from the maritime, land, aeronautical and leasing shipping companies for higher data rates to existing services continued to perform robustly sectors and are the leading global provider support communications standards and a and to deliver growth over last year.
of mobile satellite communications in each.
Across all these business areas, we enjoy a the supply of mobile satellite communication strong contribution towards revenues from end-users of our services in the maritime services is our core business, accounting for government users worldwide.
sector include companies engaged in merchant approximately 96% of our revenues.
our core shipping, passenger transport, fishing, energy business revenues are us$472.5 million 2004: our global network of distribution partners and leisure, as well as government and us$458.9 million.
during the 2005 financial who operate with over 400 service providers maritime patrol organisations such as navies year, we disposed of Invsat limited and the in some 180 countries, on six continents, and coastguards.
Merchant shipping accounts business and assets of Rydex corporation ltd. provide our services to end-users worldwide.
for the bulk of our maritime revenues, as We had determined these businesses were not our distribution partners are affiliated with those ships spend the majority of their time at core to our future strategy.
some of the largest communications sea away from coastal areas and out of reach companies in the world, including Bt, France of terrestrial communication services.
In 2005, we have seen growth in the level of telecom, KddI, singtel, telenor and telstra.
data usage across the business with it now We also include other significant independent Maritime end-users utilise our satellite representing 68% of our on-demand distribution partners, such as stratos Global.
communications services in many different revenues.
there has also been growth in both We have targeted additional distribution ways.
ships crews and passengers use our the number of commissioned and activated partners to sell and support our new BGAn services to make phone calls, to send and terminals.
services either directly to end-users or receive email and data files, and to receive through service providers.
other information services such as We sell our mobile satellite communications electronic newspapers, weather reports, services on a wholesale, on-demand basis via In the following summary, we have highlighted emergency bulletins and electronic charts.
an established, global network of distribution our activity across each of our business partners.
they provide our services to sectors and explained the technical aspects of end-users, either directly or indirectly, our business.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005 11 UNiqUely placed LAND SECTOR OVERVIEW MARITIME SECTOR OVERVIEW AERONAUTICAL SECTOR OVERVIEW MSS revenue MSS revenue MSS revenue 26% 5% 2005 2005 2005 MSS MSS MSS revenue revenue revenue 56% ILand 26% IMaritime 56% IAeronautical 5% 2005 2005 2005 IOther 74% IOther 44% IOther 95% Land revenue Maritime revenue Aero revenue 19% 23% 2005 2005 2005 38% Land Maritime Aero IVoice 19% IVoice 38% IVoice 23% 2005 2005 2005 IData 81% IData 62% IData 77% 62% 77% 81% Inmarsat services operate as an extension of the normal office environment.
Remote infrastructure projects can be monitored with ease shipping operators use our services to premium service Fleet F77 was enhanced during the 2005 financial year, the land manage inventory onboard ships and to early in 2005 with the introduction of a higher sector represented us$121.8 million transmit data, such as course, speed and fuel data speed capability of up to 128kbps, which 2004: us$133.7 million of our total revenues.
Many fishing vessels are required to aids operational efficiency.
our other two this reflects a decrease of 9% year-on-year carry terminals using our services to monitor Fleet services Fleet F55 and F33 appeal principally as a result of the introduction of catches and to ensure compliance with to end-users operating smaller vessels and pricing on a regional basis for our Regional geographic fishing restrictions.
our manufacturers have taken Broadband Global Area network R-BGAn new security regulations in certain jurisdictions advantage of the opportunity to upgrade the service, in addition to a decline in high-speed are expected to require tracking of merchant speed of the Fleet F55 service to a higher data data traffic in the Middle east due to lower vessels in territorial waters as part of a set speed.
users of our digital maritime services in use by government users in these areas and of plans being proposed by the International the Atlantic ocean Region will benefit from competition from VsAt very small aperture Maritime organisation IMo to have enhanced coverage following the successful terminals services.
Voice revenues decreased long-range identification and tracking for ships.
commercial operation of the second Inmarsatyear-on-year following lower traffic volumes 4 satellite.
resulting from competition from operators of Many of maritime sector end-users use our hand-held satellite telephones who offer services for voice calls.
Merchant shipping In addition to our commercial activities, we lower-priced voice services.
operators increasingly use our services to provide global maritime distress and safety provide prepaid phone cards and or system GMdss services to the maritime Military and government agencies constitute payphones for crew to use at preferential sector.
ships in distress use our safety services some of the largest end-users in the land rates during off-peak times during the day.
We to send an alert to a maritime rescue sector and, similar to maritime end-users, have seen over the year a significant increase coordination centre who then uses our demand reliable, high-quality services.
in the volume of traffic from crew calling, services to coordinate rescue efforts among In addition aid organisations, media, especially around weekends, religious ships in the area.
We are currently recognised construction, energy and transport companies occasions and festivals, where users benefit by the International Maritime organisation utilise our services.
Global security concerns, from our competitively priced voice service.
IMo as the sole provider of the satellite such as the recent conflict and peacekeeping communications services required for events in Afghanistan and Iraq and response Alongside two of its partners, Inmarsat is one GMdss.
We are proud of our maritime to natural disasters, continue to drive periodic of the sponsors of the Volvo ocean Race heritage and that we are recognised as a high levels of demand for our services.
during VoR where each yacht is fitted with a reliable provider, able to deliver this essential, the 2005 financial year, our services were combination of Fleet F77, F33 and Inmarsat c life-saving service.
our Inmarsat c safetynet used extensively by governments and aid terminals to ensure they have reliable global service continues to play a key role providing agencies following the tragedy of the tsunami, communication coverage during the maritime safety information and in helping the hurricane disasters in the united states round-the-world race that will finish in tackle the ongoing threat of piracy and armed and earthquakes in s. e. Asia.
We have June 2006. this  robbery against ships on the high seas.
continued to sponsor the international capability has increased the interest of telecommunications charity, tlcoms sans the public around the world with the Land sector Frontires, to assist them with funding and regular opportunity to show updates We believe that increasing workforce mobility terminals, ensuring that they are equipped to of the harsh conditions during the race.
and widespread demand for mobile respond to disasters.
communications devices capable of delivering our latest maritime offering the Fleet family higher data rates should contribute to Media companies and multinational of services has performed very strongly in increasing demand for our land-based data corporations use our services for video 2005 and has seen growth over 2004, services by enterprise users operating outside conferencing, business telephony and to especially in the new-build market.
the the coverage of terrestrial networks.
provide pay telephony services for those INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005 12 UNiqUely placed Review of Operations BGAn takes Inmarsat to the next level as an ongoing pioneer of global satellite communications All our services are renowned for reliability, ease of use and security.
An office can be set up in seconds in communities inadequately served by following the availability of the larger distribution partners and service providers to terrestrial networks.
end-users are also able geographic coverage.
system migration had deliver a single bill to users for both their to access data, email, Internet and corporate been designed to be as straightforward as mobile satellite and terrestrial communications network connections.
Media organisations possible and this was achieved through endservices, subject to the establishment of transmit live broadcast-quality voice, users downloading software to effect the appropriate roaming agreements.
We expect videophone, store-and-forward video change over to the Inmarsat satellite.
this to offer, from April 2006, our BGAn service footage and still images using our services.
data-only service can offer speeds of up to on the second Inmarsat-4 satellite over the 144kbps and we believe that due to the Americas: several of our distributors have Governments and multinational corporations attractive pricing of the service, together with already applied for licences to provide the use our services to run applications enabling its increased geographical coverage, demand service in that geographic area.
the remote operation of facilities such as will continue for this service before end-users lighthouses and oil pipelines.
migrate to our new BGAn service.
Aeronautical sector during the 2005 financial year, the our Global Area network GAn service the BGAn service is the companys most aeronautical sector represented us$22.7 and higher-speed versions of our Inmarsat A significant integrated product launch, and has million 2004: us$16.9 million of Group and B services offer data transmission rates up been facilitated by the five-year, us$1.5 billion revenues, a 34% increase year-on-year.
to 64kbps and up to 256kbps by combining Inmarsat-4 programme.
BGAn services In the aeronautical sector, our satellite channels using our Inmarsat B and GAn commenced commercial availability over the communications services are used by service, a rate higher than is available over Inmarsat-4 F1 on schedule in december 2005, commercial airlines and corporate jets, most existing terrestrial wireless networks.
with the capability of offering broadband data as well as government end-users.
our GAn service offers a seamless extension speeds while allowing the end-user to our terminals are currently installed in the for corporate networks for email, Internet simultaneously make a voice call.
At launch, majority of all long-haul commercial aircraft.
access, remote office connectivity and we had nine distribution partners actively document transfer.
our mobile packet data marketing our new BGAn service.
BGAn Aircrew and air-traffic controllers use our service, for which end-users pay by the takes Inmarsat to the next level as an ongoing services for data and voice transmission to volume of data received and transmitted, pioneer of global satellite communications communicate between the flight deck or rather than by the amount of time that they the service has the same characteristics our avionics and ground-based control facilities.
are on a call, further enhances our GAn end-users have historically enjoyed, including this includes the automatic reporting of an service by supporting Ip standards.
this reliability, ease of use and security.
BGAn aircrafts position, and controller-pilot data link facilitates more cost-effective services and supports innovative Ip data services as well as communication for clearance and information a wider variety of applications.
our GAn traditional circuit-switched data and voice, services.
For example, users coordinate Isdn service provides broadcast-quality which can be used simultaneously via small, revisions of flight plans en route and transmit images and sounds, favoured by the worlds lightweight terminals that are easy to set up aircraft systems data to the ground.
In addition, BGAn is the first mobile communications service to We are currently the only satellite the R-BGAn service, which was introduced offer guaranteed data rates on demand.
communications provider that complies with in 2002, now has an extended coverage area the International civil Aviation organisations following its migration from a third-partys BGAn terminals will use the same subscriber standards for the provision of aeronautical satellite to the first Inmarsat-4 satellite orbiting Identity Module sIM cards that are used by safety services, such as air traffic management in the Indian ocean Region.
We have seen our R-BGAn service and terrestrial wireless and aircraft operational control.
In some R-BGAn traffic usage in another 40 countries terminals.
this interoperability will enable pacific regions, approximately 90% of the INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005 13 UNiqUely placed LAND SECTOR OVERVIEW MARITIME SECTOR OVERVIEW AERONAUTICAL SECTOR OVERVIEW MSS revenue MSS revenue MSS revenue 26% 5% 2005 2005 2005 MSS MSS MSS revenue revenue revenue 56% ILand 26% IMaritime 56% IAeronautical 5% 2005 2005 2005 IOther 74% IOther 44% IOther 95% Land revenue Maritime revenue Aero revenue 19% 23% 2005 2005 2005 38% Land Maritime Aero IVoice 19% IVoice 38% IVoice 23% 2005 2005 2005 IData 81% IData 62% IData 77% 62% 77% 81% compliance with aero safety services are as important to our end-users as our commercial aero services aircraft use our satellite system for safety based on the Inmarsat aeronautical services services to augment military satellite service applications.
In the north Atlantic which were tested on the Boeing 777-200lR networks.
there may be future opportunities region, which introduced data-link safety record flight eastwards from Hong Kong to to increase the use of our services from First services more recently, already approximately london: and onAir announcing their first Responder and emergency preparedness 35% of flights use our satellite system for airline customers for their GsM solution, communities where the 2005 relief efforts for aeronautical safety services.
the tsunami, the south Asian earthquake and hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the u. s. brought Air-to-ground telephony and data Leasing home the need for dependable,  are also services often used, We lease capacity on our Inmarsat-2 and immune communications networks.
which enable mission-critical condition data to Inmarsat-3 satellites to distribution partners throughout 2005, Inmarsat ensured that its be sent from the plane to the ground.
Aircraft who provide the capacity on to end-users.
unique range of mobile communications passengers can use our services for air-toWe also expect to lease capacity on our solutions, especially those that would be ground telephony, fax services and Inmarsat-4 satellites and are reviewing ways enabled by BGAn from 2006, were data communications.
of how this can be packaged.
typically, our demonstrated to defence and security global capacity leases are short-term, with terms up communications planners and policy makers.
our swift64 service, which transmits to one year, although they can be longer.
the some of the organisations they represent have high-quality voice and data at 64kbps or up u. s. navy is currently the principal end-user of been enrolled in both the field trials and the to 256kbps combining channels, is being leased capacity on our satellites.
We also lease acceptance testing for BGAn.
heavily used by business and government specialised satellite navigation transponders on aircraft, with growing demand from the our Inmarsat-3 satellites primarily for the Our partners air-transport market.
provision of navigation services to u. s. and We have an established network of partners, european civil aviation organisations.
during comprising blue-chip distributors, service consistent with our strategy to introduce 2005, we have seen additional short-term providers, manufacturers and application higher-speed data services across all of our contracts awarded as a result of Hurricane developers.
We have worked with a significant sectors, Inmarsat is preparing for the service Katrina in the united states, and a new fivenumber of our partners for many years and introduction of swiftBroadband, which will year interoperability contract with the have developed a good understanding of their utilise our new 1-4 satellites.
the first avionics Japanese civil Aviation Authority.
For the needs and those of the end-user.
this has for the service are currently expected by 2005 financial year, total leasing revenues helped us when developing new services and the end of 2006 with the full commercial represented 13% of our total revenues, being enhancing existing ones.
service currently scheduled to be available us$60.9 million 2004: us$56.9 million, a during 2007.
As a wholesaler, we operate under a series of agreements with our distributors.
We do not during the year, we have seen airlines such as Government set the prices end-users pay for our services, Iberia introduce their new Business class In 2005, there was increased focus on the nor do we contract directly with end-users of concept including swift64 connectivity on government market.
As part of our relationship with their Airbus A340 fleet.
there have also been our distributors, we have agreed wholesale announcements by some of our partners defence forces appear to have increasing prices and volume-based discounts for regarding their solutions to allow airline reliance upon reliable, mobile Beyond-line-ofmost of our existing services until at least passengers to use their mobile cellular phones sight communications and we believe this 31 december 2008. in flight.
Most notable was the announcement could generate further opportunities for the by AeroMobile of a GsM cellular solution provision of commercial mobile satellite For our new digital services, R-BGAn and BGAn and for lease services under the INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005 14 UNiqUely placed Review of Operations over the last three years our average network availability has continued to exceed 99.99%.
each Inmarsat-4 is 60 times more powerful than an Inmarsat-3 satellite and has highly sophisticated spot-beam configuration capability Inmarsat-4 narrow spot beams, we may land earth stations les, owned by our Inmarsat-4 satellites.
these satellites were appoint new distribution partners.
We will distribution partners, transmit and receive the designed to support high-bandwidth data handle the landing of all traffic relating to these communications services to and from the services by incorporating higher-power services from our own satellite Access satellites.
these less procure or provide the transponders that can be focused into stations sAs.
connections required to link our satellite narrower beams than our earlier satellites.
system with terrestrial communications the satellites also use technology which the global communications industry is highly networks.
the les facilities are used for all our enables us to adjust the size, shape and power competitive.
We face competition from a services except R-BGAn and BGAn.
of spot beams to meet changing user demand.
number of communications technologies, in various target sectors and expect that this will Additionally, there are two sAss in Burum on 11 March 2005, we launched our first continue.
We are focused on responding to the netherlands and Fucino Italy which Inmarsat-4 satellite and on 8 november 2005 competitors proactively by enhancing our transmit and receive our R-BGAn and BGAn we launched our second Inmarsat-4 satellite.
services and continuing to deliver excellent traffic to and from our satellite network.
the orbital positions of these two satellites customer service.
these are owned by us and provide complete enable us to deliver high-bandwidth BGAn site redundancy in case of the partial or total services to approximately 85% of the earths our sales and marketing organisation is failure of one sAs.
landmass, covering approximately 98% of the designed to reflect our strategy as a focused earths population.
We have a fully tested wholesaler, where we interact closely with our Our Inmarsat-2 and spare satellite in storage, ready to deploy if distribution partners and certain service Inmarsat-3 satellites needed.
Ideally we would like to generate providers to support them in marketing We have four Inmarsat-2 satellites and five revenues from this asset and will develop our existing and new mobile satellite Inmarsat-3 satellites which each cover up to opportunities to launch it in the future.
this communication services to end-users.
We one-third of the earths surface, giving a global would give us coverage across the whole of engage in limited targeted joint marketing reach except for the extreme polar regions.
the pacific ocean region and result in full activities with them to attract end-users to global coverage by our Inmarsat-4 fleet.
At the same time, a key function Both our Inmarsat-2 and Inmarsat-3 satellites first Inmarsat-4 satellite is in full commercial of our sales and marketing organisation is to operate in orbits designed to minimise the service over the Indian ocean Region and the gather, review and analyse end-user market number of manoeuvres required to maintain second Inmarsat-4 satellite is in place over the intelligence as an important input, as we the satellites in their designated orbital Americas.
the second 1-4 satellite began define our business and product strategy.
the satellites contain on-board fuel commercial operations in January 2006. to support both regular position maintenance Our network and technology manoeuvres and possible relocations to new ours is one of the largest satellite-based orbital locations.
the careful management by global mobile communications networks in our satellite operations team has meant we the world.
It comprises a fleet of eleven have optimised the life of these satellites past satellites in geostationary orbit, which includes their originally intended design life.
during the first part of 2006, we expect to deorbit our Our Inmarsat-4 satellites first Inmarsat-2 satellite, which is in line with In May 2000, we entered into a contract with our operational plan.
eAds Astrium for the development and construction of three next-generation INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005 15 UNiqUely placed Inmarsats satellite Access station sAs in our BGAn service allows the end-user to Fuccino, Italy handles both R-BGAn and access corporate emails at the same time as BGAn traffic.
there is a second station at making a phone call Burum, the netherlands Our ground infrastructure Insurance of our satellites our satellites are controlled from our satellite We have obtained launch plus one year of control centre scc in london via tracking, in-orbit insurance for our Inmarsat-4 satellites.
telemetry and control ground stations situated each satellite is insured for us$225.0 million.
in canada, Italy, norway, china and new Zealand.
From our scc, we manage each We intend to maintain commercially satellites on-board systems, maintain each prudent levels of in-orbit insurance for our satellite within its designated orbital location Inmarsat-4 satellites on expiry of the existing and monitor the performance data  insurance transmitted from them, taking corrective coverage.
the cost of obtaining insurance actions as required.
our network operations varies as a result of either satellite failures or centre noc, also based in london, general conditions in the insurance industry.
due to the availability of redundancy through in-orbit space satellites, we do not insure our our operation and control infrastructure is Inmarsat-2 and Inmarsat-3 satellites.
designed to ensure that redundant facilities are available should components in our Galileo operation and control system fail.
Most of our Inmarsat has been in discussions to be a satellites can be controlled from two ground member of the consortium to form the stations, and we have a fully redundant Galileo operating company Goc.
Galileo is backup control centre in the united Kingdom the european union project to develop a new, that mirrors the functionality of our primary advanced global satellite navigation system.
over the three years ended Galileo will be implemented through a public 31 december 2005, our average network private partnership.
availability has continued to exceed 99.99%.
Inmarsat will have the overall management We have implemented business-support leadership of one of the prime contractors to systems, including billing and customer the Goc the Galileo operations company relationship management systems, for our opco.
opco will be responsible for BGAn services.
our BGAn Business support procuring, operating and maintaining the systems have been introduced progressively Galileo system network.
For the first time, these provide a centralised system to enable us to perform business management functions for BGAn and R-BGAn services, with particular emphasis on timely customer administration, customer management and call rating billing.
By having in place our own sAss through which the traffic is routed, together with our new Business support system, the BGAn service gives us the opportunity to receive a greater share of the end-user price of our BGAn services to reflect our additional responsibilities in the value chain.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005
