Chief Executives and Chief Operating Officers statement Going forward, Invensys will comprise five businesses, each with opportunities to grow sales, profits and cash generation.
The refinancing in March 2004 created the financial achieve return on sales at least in line with their stability that enabled Invensys to move forward with peer group: and confidence and following a further minor refinancing invest in the capabilities required to grow of our remaining shorter term maturities during the market share.
year, the Group now has no significant debt maturities until March 2009.
This stability in our financial Each business has clear, detailed plans in place and position has allowed us to make good progress across progress is reviewed on a monthly basis with their a broad range of fronts.
Once the current disposal programme is completed, On cash, the critical litmus test of our improving Invensys will comprise five businesses, each with operational capabilities is demonstrated by our cash opportunities to grow sales, profits and cash performance.
We reached an important milestone of generation.
Longer term, our aim remains to create free cash inflow of 38 million before legacy items, the opportunity whereby an improved financial mainly due to good working capital management position would enable us to replace costly inflexible compared with an outflow of 40 million last year.
debt with cheaper flexible debt.
This was a good performance showing a clear linkage between profits and cash but we still need to reduce Improving performance further the self generated quarter on quarter volatility During the past year, the focus of our activities has that has been a feature of Invensys.
been on addressing the operational performance of each of our businesses and building a solid On return on sales, we improved our performance foundation for growth.
In particular, the businesses overall but not for the retained businesses.
We have have been challenged to: already addressed overheads by reducing the sales, general and administration costs of the continuing convert a greater proportion of their operating operations by 18 million during the year and we are profits into cash: now focussing upon improving gross margin, especially through the use of low cost country sourcing.
On capabilities, we are building up our portfolio to date.
There is more to be done before it becomes of new products and services across the Group and a consistent performer but its recent results are recruiting and training the talent we need to lead encouraging.
Eurotherm is a solid business which must now aim Looking at the individual businesses to take advantage of the opportunities available to Controls, which was formed in October 2004 by the it to grow its sales, particularly in the Far East.
merger of the former Appliance and Climate Controls businesses, has had a difficult year.
These operations Disposals had been up for sale ahead of the refinancing in During the year, we sold several businesses for a gross March last year but we decided to retain them given consideration of 414 million, including Powerware, the potential that they have.
However, in the short Hansen and Marcam.
The sales of Lambda and Baker term we have had to deal with several operational are progressing and we expect completion on both issues, of which the recall of a substantial number of transactions during calendar 2005. gas valves was a symptom.
Its financial performance was affected in the year but we expect that the Looking ahead considerable efforts of the management team to On 22 July, the change in Chief Executive will take resolve these issues will show through in the coming place.
We have enjoyed working together and have year.
The merger is already showing some of the cost ensured that the passing of the management baton benefits which we planned and we should see more is as smooth as possible.
as the current year progresses.
Invensys has come a long way in the past year and Process Systems has made good progress in restoring we believe that the outlook is brighter now than it its position as a leader in the global market for has been since the merger that created it in 1999. process automation.
The investment in its technology Each of our businesses knows what is required of portfolio is leading to significant improvements in it and has clear operational plans in place.
We are sales to its larger accounts.
Its challenge now is to carefully and prudently managing our legacy issues to extend this improvement to the rest of its customer a conclusion.
We have for the first time in many years base and we have reorganised our selling capabilities produced positive free cash flow before legacy to facilitate this ambition.
improvement programme is coming to an end and we believe that the business is building up a momentum The goal for the current year has to be about that will lead to a much improved financial continuing to improve performance of our businesses performance.
and deliver the necessary earnings and cash that will deliver value to shareholders.
Rail Systems is an excellent business that is coping well with changes in its markets.
The UK business is adapting to the new pattern of business with Network Rail.
We believe that we can achieve a good balance between this customers requirement for cost and financial risk reduction and our requirement for an adequate financial return through improvement to project management procedures.
Although the Rick Haythornthwaite resultant slowdown in orders as these new procedures Chief Executive are put in place is placing a short-term strain on the business, elsewhere it is making good advances in growing its international business with particular success in Iberia and China.
APV is undergoing the most radical of the reorganisations across the Group.
Every aspect of its structure and operations has been affected and we Ulf Henriksson are pleased with the progress that has been made Chief Operating Officer Left Rick Haythornthwaite Chief Executive Right Ulf Henriksson Chief Operating Officer Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 05
