20 ITV plc 2005 annual report In 2005 ITV celebrated its 50th anniversary.
Content Operating review It was a year not only to look back on 50 As a producer-broadcaster ITV generates years of broadcasting but to celebrate the a significant amount of content in-house success and quality of programming on ITV 65% of original commissions for ITV1.
We celebrated this landmark year ITV Production is one of the worlds leading with some special 50th anniversary television production houses.
In the UK programming including The Story of ITV: we create approximately 3,200 hours of The Peoples Channel a documentary original programming each year including presented by Melvyn Bragg: 49 Up a eight out of the top ten performing special programme about the lives of a programmes non-sport on ITV1 in 2005. group of people and their expectations for ITV Production is responsible for producing the future.
The programme was first shown some of the strongest brands on television as Seven Up when they were children and including Coronation Street, Emmerdale, has been revisited every seven years Im A CelebrityGet Me Out Of Here!, including 2005 as they approach their Jeremy Kyle, Cracker, Prime Suspect half century.
2005 has seen ITV successfully adapt to the ITV owns one of the largest English demands of a digital world.
We have moved language TV media catalogues in the world.
away from a business focused on a single One of the great advantages of being a analogue channel to one that is capable vertically integrated producer broadcaster of delivering content through different is that we control the rights to a significant methods and across different platforms.
number of our most successful programme In a world where we are seeing an brands and formats.
These rights are the increasing consolidation, convergence and key to maximising returns.
In a digital commoditisation of technology, quality world, where content can be accessed content is becoming increasingly valuable.
through an increasing number of technologies, rights are becoming a key method of differentiation.
We also exploit those rights through international sales and merchandising.
Our content has had a large number of successes including Im A CelebrityGet Me Out Of Here!, A Touch of Frost and Ant and Decs Saturday Night Takeaway.
We have also delivered a number of exciting new hits including Vincent, Ahead of the Class and Gameshow Marathon.
Sales to other UK broadcasters have grown signicantly.
We have had many successes for those broadcasters, who include the BBC, Channel 4 and Sky One, with Casanova, Sex Trafc and Brainiac highlighting the depth and breadth of creativity within our business.
Internal production is the most cost effective for ITV1 As technology converges, 12 months to December 2005 network programme spend v adult impact delivery quality content is becoming Acquired increasingly valuable.
Sport News Weather Other commissions ITV Production 0% 10 20 30 40 50 60 % adult impacts delivered % network budget spend Source: BARB 21 Our international businesses have delivered Distribution Channels a number of hit series in the US which As we move towards digital switchover, As part of ITVs evolution from a single include Nanny 911 and Hells Kitchen for more and more people are migrating away channel to a family of successful digital Fox, Celebrity Fit Club for VH1 and Hit Me from the analogue platform towards digital channels with different programming, Baby One More Time for NBC.
As part of our strategy for future personalities and target audiences, we have great success selling formats around the growth in the digital world we acquired launched a series of new channel identities.
For instance, Nanny 911 has been SDN Limited in April 2005 for cash This new look on and off air is a dramatic sold to more than 60 countries and both consideration of 136 million.
modernisation of ITVs brand that moves Coronation Street and Emmerdale have each channel towards a clearly dened SDN is a UK digital terrestrial television DTT been sold to the Middle East for the first personality.
The re-branding is the result of multiplex operator which manages time.
Our international catalogue sales a comprehensive and wide-reaching project Multiplex A, one of the six multiplexes on continue to grow and in light of recent including a major segmentation study the DTT platform that make up Freeview.
technological developments, which include commissioned by our marketing team to This is a key acquisition as not only is it a trialling broadband downloads, we are understand the changing entertainment new source of revenue but critically it beginning to digitise our library.
This will needs and attitudes of the UK consumer.
ensures that ITV has the maximum enable our content to be exploited and This will also support our commissioning opportunity for future capacity on the generate additional revenues across and sales processes.
Freeview is different distribution networks.
the fastest growing digital platform with ITVs family of channels has had an In addition we have a significant number 10 million boxes sold and is the platform excellent 2005 with share of viewing of high prole sports rights including World on which ITV performs best.
We currently increasing from 22.6% in 2004 to 22.7% Cup football which we will be broadcasting have five channels on Freeview with ITV2 in 2005.
ITV1, the UKs most watched in 2006, the Rugby World Cup which will and ITV3 being the most watched digital commercial channel, continues to offer be broadcast in 2007 and the Champions commercial channels on the platform.
In an average week ITV1 League football and Formula 1 motor racing Through the acquisition of SDN, ITV now reaches 80% of the population.
In 2005 which ITV viewers enjoy each year.
These operates 38% of the commercial DTT ITV1 spent over 900 million on network rights provide further opportunities to capacity.
With video streams on DTT in programming and it is this substantial level create value across different distribution demand, increasing the prices paid by of investment which enables us to offer a networks.
For example, we will be offering channels, this puts SDN in a strong varied schedule of quality programming interactive and online services around the position when the video streams come up including drama and must see television Champions League.
events such as The X Factor.
In 2005 ITV1 was the only commercial channel to Granada Ventures exploits secondary rights This summer, we will be broadcasting the achieve audiences greater than 7.5 million.
from our large portfolio of hit properties, World Cup in HDTV High Denition ITV also broadcast eight out of the top ten including DVD video, books, music and Television format, on DTT and DSAT.
programmes on UK television in 2005. merchandise.
In 2005 Liverpool Football In October ITV plc joined the Freeview Clubs DVD of their UEFA Champions consortium which owns and markets League final has sold extremely well, Freeview.
We have joined as an equal as have Sharpe and Inspector Morse.
shareholder 20% alongside the BBC, Projects for the future include BSkyB, National Grid Wireless and merchandising rights for Pocoyo, an Channel 4.
As part of this consortium innovative new show for toddlers.
we will be contributing towards the marketing of the platform which will enable us to take a more formal role in driving the takeup of Freeview.
Top content performs evenly across platforms With the SDN acquisition, ITV now operates 38% of commercial 60 DTT capacity.
50 40 30 20 10 Coronation Emmerdale The Bill The X Factor Gshow Takeaway Creature Soap Walk Away Audience 0 Street Marathon Comforts Awards & I Stumble with % Joe Pasquale all platforms freeview Dsat viewing share 22 ITV plc 2005 annual report Operating review We continued to be the home of original Europe.
We were able to use this capability ITV4 is our latest digital channel offering quality drama with many new programmes to the full on and following the 7 7 terrorist and is targeted at male viewers.
On its proving successful, particularly in the all bombings in London.
The team was launch night on the 1 November 2005 ITV4 important Autumn schedule.
We have delighted to be awarded the prestigious averaged 335,000 viewers and a 3.23% share received widespread critical acclaim across Royal Television Society awards for across its transmission hours 19.00 02.30 the drama portfolio, particularly for our coverage of the Pakistan Earthquake and and peaked with an audience of 1.2 million one-off dramas.
Notable strong offerings for the countrys best news programme viewers, making it the most successful were Ahead of the Class which drew in 10.1 in the Early Evening News.
digital channel launch to date.
Sport has million viewers and a 40% viewing share and proved a popular part of the schedule with ITV is also home to a number of successful returning series such as Doc Martin with an the UEFA Champions League Match free to air digital channels ITV2 3 4 and average audience of 9.3 million viewers between Liverpool and Benca in 2006 soon, CITV.
ITV2 is now the biggest non- 38% viewing share and Poirot averaging peaking at 1.2 million and averaging terrestrial station by adult impact delivery 7.9 million 31% viewing share.
New 702,000 and the match between Real Betis taking 2.8% of impacts putting it ahead of detective series Vincent 6.4 million, 27% and Chelsea averaging 695,000 viewers.
The channel has been viewing share was highly regarded and has From its launch in November to the end enjoying significant year on year impact been recommissioned.
Afterlife proved a of 2005, ITV4 ranked 10th in its target growth with impacts in 2005 up 39% for popular addition to our Saturday night market, the male demographic, during adults and up 41% for 16-34s.
schedule with an average audience nearing transmission hours.
ITV2 offers a range of original commissions, 6 million viewers.
On 11 March 2006 we will be launching Entertainment remains at the heart of the Footballers Wives Extra Time and our new childrens channel, CITV.
CITV will ITV1 schedule and we have seen great Jordan and Peter: Marriage and Mayhem initially be transmitted on Freeview and success with returning shows The X Factor were both ITV2 original commissions and cable, rolling out on satellite later in the and Im A CelebrityGet Me Out Of Here!
as proved very popular with the 16-34 year.
The channel will be targeted at well as new formats such as Ant and Decs audience.
In terms of brand extensions we younger viewers pre-school and 49 year Gameshow Marathon.
have seen continued success with The Xtra olds as part of our multichannel strategy Factor which was ITV2s top performing to offer more targeted programming to Our banker shows have continued to show in December closely followed by different demographics.
Coronation Street was again the Im A CelebrityGet Me Out Of Here Now!, Public Service Broadcasting PSB best performing programme of the year both reaching audiences of more than obligations we already spend 29 million on any channel, in terms of volume, and 1 million.
on childrens programmes which we will be Emmerdale has continued to go from able to utilise on the channel.
This will give strength to strength.
On occasion ITV3, which launched in November 2004, more exposure to our key childrens brands Emmerdale has gone head to head with has also proved very successful and is now such as Pocoyo and offer further brand Eastenders and beaten it.
the fourth biggest non-terrestrial station in extension and merchandising opportunities.
terms of Adults and ABC1 Adults impacts 2005 was a remarkable year for our news ITV is collaborating closely with Ofcom and with a 1.6% share of Adults and a 1.8% team.
It started with our widely acclaimed other industry bodies on the review of the share of ABC1 Adults.
This is a very reporting of the South East Asia tsunami codes on food advertising to children.
impressive achievement given the relative disaster, in which we gave extensive airtime youth of the channel.
On Freeview, ITV3 to coverage of the impacts on lives performs even better, being the second throughout the region and to the disaster biggest non-terrestrial channel beaten only appeal.
We continued our programme of by ITV2.
ITV3 benets from the extensive investment in digitising our newsrooms and ITV library of high quality drama available now have the most advanced integrated and we have seen strong performances set of regional and national newsrooms in from favourites such as Inspector Morse and Poirot.
March 2006 sees the launch In 2005 ITV1 was the only of the new CITV childrens channel.
commercial channel to regularly achieve audiences greater than 7.5 million.
23 In 2006 we aim to increase further the With broadband penetration forecast to ITV acquired community-based website programme investment in our successful increase signicantly, passing 50% of Friends Reunited in December 2005 for an family of digital channels to 84 million.
homes by 2010, consumers will increasingly initial consideration of 120 million.
Friends We are ahead of our target of 150 million be able to receive audiovisual content via Reunited is a profitable, rapidly growing of multichannel advertising revenue in their phone line.
TV over ADSL is likely to content rich site with five key segments 2007, and may achieve this run rate by the become more widely available and with it each driven by user generated content.
We now aim to achieve a run comes the ability of the consumer to view These are Friends Reunited a schools and rate of 250 million of advertising and content on demand and pay-per view.
colleges alumni site: Genes Reunited interactive revenue from our digital ITVs premium content will become a genealogy site: Friends Reunited Dating, channels by the end of 2008. increasingly valuable during this period of Friends Reunited Jobs and Connections platform proliferation.
To harness this a social networking site.
Across their sites New platforms bring growing revenue stream and enable our Friends Reunited has 15 million registered commercial opportunities content to be easily distributed through UK members and more than 1 million The world is changing and our viewers are different digital viewing technologies we paying subscribers.
Combining Friends now able to consume content in an have begun the process of digitising our Reunited and ITVs family of sites gives ITV increasing number of ways.
We believe that media catalogue.
We are also ensuring the eighth largest online presence in terms this presents an exciting opportunity to that our new content is available in of unique users, offering a powerful develop direct consumer revenues and digital format.
consolidated online advertising sales reduce our reliance on traditional advertising proposition which provides a one-stop shop revenues.
We aim to generate 50% of our Online is an important part of our future for media agencies in the internet revenues from outside ITV1 advertising by business for both consumers and advertising space.
We have already begun the end of 2010. advertisers alike and ITV has moved to to cross promote our various online sites increase its online content presence both ITV is home to the most popular brands in and leverage the Friends Reunited brand.
Our main television and each year we broadcast Friends Reuniteds sponsorship of hit show website itv.
com is currently undergoing some of the biggest event shows.
Soapstar Superstar drove a 70% year on a significant functionality upgrade which We have been successful at generating year uplift in unique users across the will enable us to further monetise our additional transactional revenues through month of January and a similar increase relationships with both consumers and PRTS and SMS interactivity focused around in profit.
Friends Reunited brings with it a advertisers.
The new look site will be rolled brands such as Im A CelebrityGet Me Out highly successful management team with out later in the year and we aim to offer Of Here!, The X Factor and This Morning.
unrivalled online expertise, product a seamless user experience with easier development and database management ITV has a number of exciting new initiatives navigation and rich content across our skills.
We are integrating both the skills and which are focused on further monetising programme sites and news services.
underlying technology afforded to us by our consumer relationships.
Towards the We will also be launching an online this acquisition into our own online end of 2005 we began broadcasting a electronic programme guide and improved propositions ITV.
number of participation TV formats, on online interactive functionality and ITV1 and ITV2, including Quizmania which content.
Technology upgrades mean is studio based and invites viewers to call that we will have the capability to offer in to take part in a variety of quizzes, downloadable programme catch-ups, puzzles and games to win cash prizes.
on-demand viewing and highlights of These have proved popular and forthcoming shows.
We are looking forward to launching the ITV Play channel in April, with a variety of participation formats that are entertaining, high quality and appeal to our mass-market ITV audiences.
Friends Reunited Group comparison 3 million news highlights January trading last 3 years were viewed online on ITVs 1,600 800 1,400 700 Im A CelebrityGet Me Out Of 1,200 600 Here!
1,000 500 800 400 600 300 400 200 200 100 0 2004 2005 2006 0 Revenue EBITDA GR Records Friends Reunited FR Dating Genes Reunited 000s 000s Advertising EBITDA FR Jobs 24 ITV plc 2005 annual report Operating review We have extended the trial of ITV Local Regulation which is a broadband based television In 2005 ITV had a review of its licence project currently operating in the payments, settled on 29 June, which saw Meridian region.
The ITV Local website a change in the financial terms for our www.
tv offers news, weather, Channel 3 licences.
In 2004 licence documentaries, classied advertising and, payments on a pro forma basis were since the beginning of January, viewer 207 million net of the digital rebate.
In generated content, including videos and 2005 we paid 75 million, a reduction of adverts.
We launched the trial in October.
This payment will The site has attracted 10,000 users each continue to fall as digital penetration week in phase two of the trial, and is increases and is likely to reduce to around generating significant interest both 4 million in constant prices by the time nationally and internationally.
These reduced In January 2006 a new channel for financial terms reect the declining value of educational professionals called Teachers the analogue broadcasting spectrum and TV launched on ITV Local having already will allow us to continue to invest in high proved successful on satellite and cable.
The ITV Local trial will allow the project In December 2005 the EC published its team to rene the consumer proposition legislative proposal for the revision of the and give the local community a lengthened Television without Frontiers Directive.
period of time to interact with the site.
The proposal addressed the commissions If the trial proves successful we aim to roll liberal stance on product placement and out ITV Local across the nation allowing ITV advertising rules, which ITV and the other to generate further value from our regional European commercial broadcasters have content infrastructure.
The consultation is likely to ITV Mobile launched in September 2005 run for some time, with the final directive to offer our viewers access to ITV content unlikely to be adopted before 2007. whilst on the move.
With consumers However, in anticipation of changes to the appetite for video content growing, we EU framework, Ofcom is already consulting have successfully offered downloads of on possible relaxation of the UK rules video clips from popular shows such as regarding product placement.
This could Coronation Street, Im A CelebrityGet Me allow the UK to see change as soon as the Out Of Here!
and The X Factor, as well as new EU rules are confirmed.
We would news updates, ringtones, wallpapers and welcome this change as it would offer games.
ITV has also signed output deals further opportunities for our advertisers.
for our content with mobile operators Values and behaviours including 3, a leading mobile media In order to drive our digital growth in the company.
This allows us to talk directly to future and make sure ITV plc continues to the companys 3 million customers and be a successful and vibrant media generate revenues from 3G-enhanced company we have introduced a set of extras like streamed video and clips.
values and behaviours for our employees from the top to the bottom of the organisation.
We have also conducted a number of employee surveys in order to establish a base from which we can monitor our improvement.
These core competencies and values will encourage and strengthen ITVs commercial success in the digital age.
2005 licence fee review ITV Mobile offers our viewers Digital switchover begins 300 0 access to ITV content whilst on 228m 250 the move.
20 207m 200 40 150 60 100 75m 80 50 4m 0 2003 2004 2005 Switch 100 off m % digital Cost m Digital penetration penetration Source: Digital penetration forecasts from Zenith Feb-06
