Chief Ex Chief Executiv ecutive e s R s Re evie view w Jus Justin King tin King Chief Executives operating review Justin King We have undertaken a complete review of our business.
It was clear that the Company hadnt produced the results that shareholders expected of a great company like Sainsburys and our market share had also continued to decline.
The first six months of the year were spent stabilising the business and addressing immediate issues.
Our number one priority has been to make things better for our customers as quickly as possible.
We couldnt wait for longterm changes to come through.
On 19 October 2004 we laid out our plans for recovery a three-year programme designed to grow sales by 2.5 billion by the end of 2007 08 and return Sainsburys to sustainable growth in both sales and profitability.
Were clear that sales are the purest measure of customer satisfaction in a food retail business.
At the heart of these plans lay our certainty that Sainsburys was a strong business capable of being restored to greatness.
There is nothing fundamentally wrong with the brand.
The problem was that we hadnt delivered it well enough in recent years.
We had to move fast, particularly on availability and value.
Overall, we think weve made a good start, but theres still much left to be done.
Were at the beginning of a long-term process.
Our vision for Sainsburys is all about delivering great quality food at fair prices.
3,000 In October 2004 we unveiled a straightforward plan to fix the basics and ensure that our retailing skills are as good as they can possibly be.
This covered everything Extra Colleagues from a root and branch overhaul of our supply chain to a review of our information Improving the shopping experience technology infrastructure, which wasnt delivering what was expected of it.
It also We recruited more colleagues to help meant concentrating our efforts on the type of stores in which the Sainsburys brand stepchange our customer service and product availability in our stores.
performs most successfully - traditional supermarkets and convenience stores.
With all of these measures, were committed to ensuring that the customer remains at the heart of our decision-making.
Were determined to deliver better value through improved prices and increased quality, both now and in the future.
Weve put 3,000 more colleagues in stores, for example, and were investing in 131 stores which havent seen any improvements for many years.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 7 Chief Executives operating review We have set out our plan for a recovery over three years, to the end of the 2007 08 financial year.
That is how long it will take to bring about lasting change.
Our competitors will not stand still, so we will have to remain ready to adapt and evolve our plans over that period.
Were determined that we will respond as necessary to ensure customer-facing activities are not compromised as we rebuild our business.
Weve set out milestones, including our promise to start delivering market-matching growth by March 2006.
The final quarter of the year brought some encouraging signs of an improvement, with like-for-like sales increasing by 1.7 per cent Easter adjusted and excluding petrol.
It is still early days, but were sure that the improvement is a result of the 2 early work weve done to stabilise the business.
1 0 The scale of the task ahead, however, is illustrated by the figures for the full year.
Sainsburys Supermarkets sales increased by 5.1 per cent to 16,076 million -1 delivering Group underlying profit before tax of 254 million as we recognised the -2 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 cost of previous investments and the extra money invested as we moved quickly Like-for-like sales to improve the shopping experience for customers.
Like-for-like sales Easter adjusted and excluding petrol showed Sainsburys Bank continued to see growth in customer numbers, assets and income, encouraging signs of improvement but profit, at 13 million, was impacted by the pressure on margins and the increase in Quarter Four reported as 11 weeks in the bad debt provision.
actual and one week estimated.
Managing change in an organisation as big and complex as Sainsburys isnt easy.
In particular, I was worried about how to motivate colleagues in an already change-weary business.
Many colleagues had worked on change before and not seen the expected results.
8 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 We have created a clear road map Sainsbury's is still a great business with a strong brand and many loyal customers and colleagues.
In order to rebuild our business we had to identify the right position for Sainsbury's in our market and map out the work we needed to do to get there.
We outlined our plan to Make Sainsbury's Great Again on 19 October 2004.
As well as fixing the basics we are committed to making small changes every day to constantly improve the shopping experience for our customers.
We have improved our product availability We have made good progress on availability but there is still much to do.
We have looked at everything that determines how products reach our shelves in store.
We have tested new processes and improved our stock inventories.
This has made a big difference in the trial stores reducing the number of products 'out of stock' by 75 per cent.
By summer 2005 all stores will have adopted these new ways of working.
We'll continue to make improvements but customers and independent industry commentators are already noticing the difference.
Chief Executives operating review I found however, that once a clear vision of what we needed to do was established and well communicated, our colleagues were more than ready to change again.
Were making fundamental improvements to the way Sainsburys operates.
Were also doing lots of small things better every day, small things that make a big difference to our customers.
Our colleagues are as excited by the idea of making Sainsburys great again as I am.
tell Justin The clearest demonstration of this is our tell Justin suggestion scheme.
Since Over 7,000 colleagues have written its launch last year over 7,000 colleagues have written in with ideas on how we in with suggestions since the launch last September.
Building the right leadership team was essential.
This has involved new people not just on the Operating Board, but throughout the business.
Attracting great people wasnt a problem.
They all knew that joining Sainsburys offered the chance to be part of something special and exciting.
They saw the power of the brand and believed in our vision.
Strengthening our top management team was the first step.
Five new members have joined the Operating Board this year adding a range of industry expertise and knowledge to complement the existing talent of the team.
Jim McCarthy is an expert in convenience retailing while Gwyn Burr, Mike Coupe, Lawrence Christensen, and Ken McMeikan, have all worked at senior level for three of our main supermarket competitors.
This is a team with great industry experience and a track record of delivery and Darren Shapland, our new Chief Financial Officer, joins us in August 2005.
The full team can be seen on page 21.
At the level just below the Operating Board we have also attracted many new people from a broad range of competitors and related businesses.
Around 40 per cent of this team is new to Sainsburys during the past year or recently promoted, and around 40 per cent of our departmental directors are women.
We have already made great strides in sorting out this crucial issue, but theres more to do.
We started with an initial review of our supply chain, from the time goods leave our suppliers to the moment theyre stacked on shelves in stores.
This involved looking at areas such as depots and trucks as well as our in-store processes.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 11 Chief Executives operating review The first priority was a short-term fix to ensure the right goods were on the shelves at the right time for our customers.
Weve stabilised the performance of our automated depots by over-riding some of the systems with manual solutions.
Well continue to monitor and improve their performance as our sales grow and we start to better understand the full capabilities of the whole supply chain.
For the longer term, were looking at more permanent solutions and making sure we understand the process from start to finish.
In stores, were finding ways to make the jobs our colleagues have to do as easy as possible so they can continue to give customers an improved level of service.
Weve tested new ways of working which have helped reduce the number of products out of stock in our stores by 75 per cent.
These are now being rolled out to all our stores.
The things that made Sainsburys one of Britains best retailers great food at fair prices and wonderful service are as important to customers today as they ever were.
We have a great network of stores in excellent locations, and even through our recent troubles our customer numbers were constant at about 14 million a week.
Good, Better, Best So Sainsburys remains a mass-market retailer.
A number of decisions in the past Products are categorised into one affected our ability to appeal to all shoppers.
That universal appeal is what were of three quality tiers, ensuring the offer is attractive to all customers.
working to restore as we invest 400 million in improving our offer to customers For example, our lasagne range over the next three years.
In January this year we ran an advertising campaign comprises our Basics sub brand to highlight that 6,000 products were at a lower price than the same time a year for Good, our core own label ago.
We recently updated this campaign with another 1,000 products over the line for Better and our premium Taste the Difference for Best.
first four months of 2005 and customers have definitely noticed the difference.
Most importantly, while cutting prices weve ensured that quality has been maintained or improved.
Were more convinced than ever that our heritage provides an ideal market position for our brand as our customers want healthy, safe, fresh and tasty food.
We will maintain and stretch our lead on quality and were going through our entire product range to ensure it meets the standards we require in order for products to be branded with the Sainsburys name.
12 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Were putting our customers first We are committed to putting customers at the heart of our business and restoring our universal appeal.
The things that made Sainsbury's great in the past are the things that customers want and expect from us great quality food at fair prices.
This is something that appeals to all customers.
The shopping lists above show the ten most popular meals for two very distinct and different households.
Its hard to spot the difference.
Research by TNS WorldPanel UK We have become more competitive We have made a significant investment in price over the past year as part of our ongoing commitment to improve value for our customers.
In January this year our advertising highlighted that 6,000 products were at a lower price than the same time the previous year.
We recently updated this campaign with another 1,000 lower prices since January 2005.
Over the next three years to the end of 2007 08 we will invest 400 million in improving quality and lowering prices.
Chief Executives operating review Were further improving our product ranges to ensure we offer a good choice from entry-level items through to market leading innovation and quality.
This approach has universal appeal: we know that customers shop across the price quality bands depending on their tastes, needs and budget.
We have improved and added to our premium Taste the Difference range and four of our top ten selling products at Christmas came from this range.
In January 2005 we relaunched our low price products under the sub-brand Basics.
This comprises around 400 products and has sold well, in many cases growing category sales.
In developing better quality products we also embrace the integrity of product supply and processes, again things inherent in the Sainsbury's brand.
For example, Universal appeal our salt reduction programme, part of a three-year plan developed alongside the Four of our top ten selling products at Christmas 2004 were Food Standards Agency, set challenging targets some of which have been achieved Taste the Difference products six months ahead of schedule.
This year we also set new standards in our industry but customers shop across with our Wheel of Health icon which gives customers quick and simple recognition price and quality depending on their tastes, needs and budget.
of the nutritional values of our products.
Our relevance to a healthy diet and lifestyle has perhaps been best demonstrated by the phenomenal success of our Active Kids campaign which has attracted over 23,500 schools, nearly 75 per cent of UK schools.
Active Kids is designed to tackle the issue not only of what we eat, calories in, but how we use the energy food provides, calories out.
Customers receive vouchers which primary and secondary schools can then redeem for activities and sports equipment.
Kelly Holmes became an ambassador for the scheme which runs until the end of June 2005 and we anticipate well donate around 5 million of equipment and activities.
Our Active Kids campaign is a good example of how our approach to corporate responsibility is central to our business.
Last year we published our first full corporate responsibility report online and details of our activities in this area can be found on our website www.
We have achieved a number of commendations this year for our responsible business practice.
In January, for the second year running, we were first in our sector in Business in the Community's Corporate Responsibility Index and ranked joint fifth overall out of 144 companies.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 15 Chief Executives operating review In February we were the only food retailer out of the 32 British companies listed in the Global 100s most sustainable corporations.
We were first in sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and have consistently been listed in the FTSE4Good Index since it started in 2001.
In 2004 05 Sainsbury's donated 6.8 million to charitable and community projects.
This included almost 4 million through food donations to charities helping the homeless.
Sainsbury's is the only major food retailer to operate a food donation programme.
In addition, our colleagues, customers and suppliers raised an additional 10.9 million including 1.7million for the Asian Tsunami appeal and 6.5 million for Comic Relief.
General merchandise is an important part of our mix, but our focus is on providing products that customers now like and expect to find in a supermarket.
Our first focus is on core general merchandise which includes items such as cards, gift-wrap, music and DVDs, and which for most customers are now a normal part of the weekly grocery shop.
Where space allows we will also sell clothing and homeware.
We see a clear opportunity to grow sales by developing our non-food offer and these ranges are expected to deliver 700 million of the extra 2.5 billion in sales we are targeting.
In September 2004 we launched our new TU brand in clothing and updated other TU Clothing ranges.
In our largest 158 stores, where we have the space to carry a worthwhile Our TU clothing range has offer, were selling more clothing and homeware but all our stores have a basic received excellent reviews everyday offer.
All the work we have done has been well received by customers from fashion commentators for its style, quality and value.
and tells us this is the right approach.
Lots of little things can make for big change.
Our customers tell us they can see the difference already.
They have commented on our better pricing, improved availability of products and higher service standards.
But we know that will not be enough.
Customers want constant improvement and that is what we will give them.
A good example is our Sainsburys to You home delivery service.
This is an important service for our customers but we put expansion on hold while we work hard to improve our performance.
16 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 We havent lost our passion for food Our own label ranges have always been about giving customers outstanding quality for money.
For example, we bake bread from scratch at regular intervals throughout the day to ensure customers have the freshest and tastiest products.
We have continued to take our responsibility seriously The obesity debate has been mostly about the calories we take in.
As a food retailer we take this seriously.
But it is also about the calories used up in exercise.
That's why we launched Active Kids this year.
Customers receive vouchers as they spend in our stores that can be redeemed by schools for sports equipment.
Over 23,500 schools, around 75 per cent of all UK primary and secondary schools, have signed up.
Chief Executives operating review This service is now fully integrated with our stores and we have made good progress, particularly on availability where, like stores, we have been able to reduce the number of products out of stock.
Availability has improved by 4.5 percentage points and this is a good indication of the overall improvement being experienced by all our customers whether they shop in-store or online.
Making change to any business the size of Sainsburys is a huge undertaking and a job for the medium and long-term.
But, were determined to give customers an ever-improving shopping experience while we make the necessary changes behind the scenes.
Thats why we have put in immediate measures such as more colleagues in store so that our offer will not be compromised while we work on longer-term solutions.
Our plans are very different.
Were focussing on improving the shopping experience for our customers so they can get all they need and want at Sainsburys.
This in turn will drive sales growth and profitability.
We previously concentrated on making changes to the Companys infrastructure, often making things more difficult for customers.
Active Kids We have the right management team in place and everyone at Sainsburys is Customers receive one voucher for now pulling in the same direction.
Colleagues have embraced the cultural every 10 they spend and bonus changes designed to put the interests of the customer firmly at the centre of vouchers for fruit and vegetables.
We have set out a clear path that investors can judge us by.
We are determined to deliver long-term sustainable profitability for Sainsburys.
What we will end up with is a Sainsburys restored to its rightful place as a leading food retailer with a reputation for innovation and great food at fair prices.
Justin King Chief Executive J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 19
