OPERATING REVIEW Financial performance Turnover increased by 6.0% to 649.4m 2004: 612.7m as a result of the second year of price increases allowed in the interim price determination which took place in April 2003.
Operating profit before exceptionals increased by 12.8% to 282.8m 2004: 250.8m of which 52% 2004: 49% accrued in the second half year.
This performance reflects continuous improvement from the business which has delivered 120m of operating cost out-performance for the 2000-05 period.
Exceptional items of 5.8m relate to business reorganisation costs required to deliver further measured initiatives on cost reduction.
Regulated capital investment for the year was 349.2m 2004: 302.3m.
The investment continues to be directed at the upgrading of the regions clean and waste water infrastructure.
Over AMP 3, Yorkshire Water Services Limited delivered 13% capital cost out-performance.
Operational performance In January 2005, Ofwat announced that Yorkshire Water Services Limited had become the first water and sewerage company ever to achieve A ratings in each of the four available categories for relative efficiency, namely operating and capital cost efficiency in both water and waste water.
Ofwats Unit Costs and Efficiency Report 2003 04 compared all 22 water and sewerage companies on the basis of how efficiently they ran their businesses and how efficiently they spent money on the maintenance of pipes, sewers and treatment works.
The report acknowledged Yorkshire Water Services Limiteds industry leading performance which the regulator said had been taken into consideration during the recent price review, ensuring increases in customers bills could be kept to a minimum.
The outcome of Ofwats recent price review was announced in December 2004 and has been accepted by the company.
The final determination was very similar to Yorkshire Water Services Limiteds business plan submission, with customers bills set to rise by an average of 3.9% per year above inflation over the period 2005-2010.
This will result in average household bills rising by 45 to 288 excluding inflation over the next five years.
The increases will help finance a 1.6 billion programme of investment to further improve drinking water and river water quality and to significantly reduce the number of incidents of sewer flooding.
Customer service Yorkshire Water Services Limited was named Utility Company of the Year at the Utility Industry Achievement Awards 2004, against competition from some of the biggest names in the water, gas, electricity and telecommunications industries.
The company continued to improve its overall levels of operational and customer service during 2004 and recorded its highest ever points score in Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment.
We were ranked fourth in the industry.
The quality of Yorkshires tap water had reached an all-time high, with 99.89% of Overall Performance Indicator tests taken during the previous year reaching the required standards.
1 Throughout the year the company continued its ongoing programme of work to upgrade the regions 31,217km of underground water mains, with major renewal schemes underway in towns and cities such as Bradford, Scarborough, Huddersfield and Hull.
Environmental performance Progress has been made over the past 12 months to improve the condition of Sites of Special Scientific Interest SSSIs on Yorkshire Water Services Limited land.
20% are now in recovering or better status, compared to 10% in 2003.
In September 2004, Yorkshire Water Services Limited and the Ramblers Association staged a joint celebration to mark the official introduction of new access rights for walkers in the South Pennines.
Under the terms of the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000, walkers were given the right to roam across large areas of moorland, heath and down in the area for the first time.
Kelda once again achieved Premier League status in Business in the Environments Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement 2004.
Social impact rd Yorkshire Water Services Limited was ranked 43 in Business in the Communitys Companies That Count report published in March 2004, a rise of 43 places on the previous year.
The report looks at corporate social responsibility and benchmarks companies performance on a range of social, ethical and environmental issues.
We will continue to use our participation in the index as a means of improving the way we do business and staying abreast of best practice.
In assessing the companys approach to CSR, Business in the Community recognised the success of the companys Cool Schools campaign which has seen the installation of 700 free water coolers in local primary schools across the region.
Employees A major review of the companys performance management process was undertaken during 2004.
A joint proposal was developed which was put to a union ballot and accepted by the overwhelming majority of employees in February 2005.
Under the terms of the five-year agreement, all employees are now guaranteed an annual cost of living increase, with the potential for additional payments based on company and personal performance.
In October 2004, the company also unveiled its new vision - to be clearly the best water company in the UK - and launched a series of new aspirational targets for the company to aim for over the period 2005 - 2010.
