Operating review Platinum The average price for the basket Ongoing demand for platinum Business unit head of metals sold rose by 16% to remains robust and Anglo Platinum Ralph Havenstein $1,388 per platinum ounce sold, is continuing with its expansion mainly because of firmer platinum, programme.
During 2005, mining The outlook for rhodium and nickel prices.
replacement projects totalling some long term $770 million were approved.
These platinum prices Platinum group metals production projects are planned to reach steady is more positive increased by 5% when compared state between 2008 and 2012. than it has been Operating profit with 2004.
While mining production Notably, Anglo Platinum is in the for some time was higher, refined platinum final stages of approving the 2004: production of 2.45 million ounces $692 million Potgietersrust expansion $536m was similar to 2004.
This resulted which will bring on 230,000 ounces from a three month shutdown of additional platinum production per 2005: of the Polokwane Smelter to repair annum by 2009. and upgrade the cooler system $854m which had been damaged in an The outlook for long term platinum explosion.
Process changes at the prices is more positive than it has Precious Metals Refinery led to a been for some time.
Consequently, significant one-off increase in studies evaluating the ramping up rhodium production.
of projects previously slowed Higher prices and increased down for economic reasons are sales volumes helped to raise Anglo Platinum reached agreement being conducted.
Anglo Platinums operating with Aquarius Platinum to mine on profit by 59% to $854 million.
their contiguous Rustenburg and Anglo Platinums refined platinum While lower production at Marikana properties.
Annual production production is expected to rise to Amandelbult and Rustenburg at the new venture will be doubled between 2.7 million and 2.8 million raised operating costs, cost to around 145,000 ounces of platinum ounces in 2006, as mining production reduction initiatives saved an in concentrate during 2007. increases and pipeline inventories additional $36 million compared are reduced, and thereafter grow with 2004.
The Mototolo joint venture was production by around 5% per annum formed with Xstrata Alloys.
Production is planned to start in the last quarter of 2006 and is Demand for platinum continues to expected to produce 132,000 be strong and remains supportive of ounces of platinum and 82,000 firm platinum prices.
The resilience ounces of palladium in concentrate of jewellery demand, particularly in annually from the third quarter the Chinese market at prices over of 2007.
Right: Washers struck from platinum sheet are crafted into bridal rings.
Although jewellery remains the No.
2 demand sector for platinum, behind the autocatalyst sector, the metals use in industry continues to increase and industrial applications now represent nearly a quarter of total demand.
12 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 Gold Left: Separating fine and coarse gold bearing ore at AngloGold Ashantis Sunrise Dam mine in Western Australia.
The mines open pit is currently being deepened to 430 metres while, simultaneously, a three year feasibility study, expected to be completed in about a years time, is being conducted for an underground operation to extend the mines life to 2015, six years after the open pit operation is due to close.
AngloGold Ashantis operating During the year AngloGold Ashanti Business unit head profit was 12% higher at was advised that its applications for Bobby Godsell $332 million.
The rand gold the conversion of its old order mining price benefited from the general rights to new order mining rights had The gold price strength in commodity prices been approved.
Total cash costs for five years rose by $13 per ounce to $281, Current growth projects aim in succession mainly as a result of stronger to maintain production above Operating profit operating currencies, inflation 6 million ounces through to 2013. and lower grades.
AngloGold Ashanti also plans to 2004: grow its reserve and resource base $296m The return of investor interest in by exploration and by acquisition.
gold was reflected throughout the Through Trans-Siberian Gold, 2005: year by a sustained rise in the gold AngloGold Ashanti now has a price.
The average price received foothold in Russian gold production.
$332m increased by $45 per ounce to $439, AngloGold Ashanti has exploration while the average spot price of projects in the Democratic Republic $445 per ounce was $36 or 9% of Congo and Colombia.
It has also stronger than in 2004.
During the entered into exploration partnerships final quarter of 2005 the gold price in China, the Philippines, Laos broke through the $500 per ounce and Mongolia.
mark and has stayed well above that level in early 2006.
The gold price has now risen for five years in succession, a phenomenon In 2005 AngloGold Ashantis gold not seen since the deregulation of production from ongoing operations the gold market in the developed rose by 6% to 6.17 million ounces.
The spot The increase flowed largely from the gold price has risen again during the inclusion of a full years production first few weeks of the new year.
of the Ashanti assets, as well as Ongoing strong demand from from higher production at Sunrise growing economies in China and Dam in Australia and from production India as well as continued investor improvements at Morila and Mponeng.
speculation and official sector These contributions were partly activities are seen as supportive offset by a reduction in output from of the gold price.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 | 13 Operating review continued Diamonds Left: In what was another Business unit head good year for retail sales of Gareth Penny diamond jewellery, fide Beers, through its Diamond Trading Company, supplied around 45% of all rough diamonds in 2005 and gave the go-ahead for two new mines in Canada.
Operating profit 2004: $573m 2005: $583m Anglo Americans share of In 2005 fide Beers and Ponahalo raised production by 2% to a record operating profit from fide Beers Investment Holdings signed a 31.9 million carats, while Namdeb increased to $583 million.
Memorandum of Understanding produced 1.86 million carats, 5% relating to the proposed sale of down on 2004.
The outlook Preliminary reports point to global a 26% equity interest in fide Beers for diamonds retail sales of diamond jewellery Consolidated Mines Limited to fide Beers is spending $1.6 billion in 2006 is a for the year, rising by 6% to 7%.
The Ponahalo, a broad based South on expanding diamond production.
positive one diamond trade experienced growth in African black economic empowerment During the year fide Beers approved all major regions with the exception company, for approximately the $513 million Snap Lake of Europe, where sales were generally $597 million.
The sale is likely underground project in Canadas flat.
Sales by The Diamond Trading to be completed in April 2006.
Northwest Territories, which will Company the DTC, the marketing be the companys first mine outside arm of fide Beers, were a record Demand for rough diamonds Africa, and gave the go-ahead for $6,539 million, 15% higher than continues to be steady, though a second Canadian project, the in 2004.
The DTC raised its rough stocks of both rough and polished $791 million Victor project in diamond prices by an average of 9.5%.
diamonds in the cutting centres are Ontario.
Snap Lake is due to enter at relatively high levels.
The outlook production in late 2007 with Victor fide Beers Group production, including for diamonds in 2006 is a positive following about a year later.
joint ventures in Botswana and one, in line with macro-economic In South Africa, approval has been Namibia, increased by 4% to forecasts of another good year of given for the $177 million 49 million carats.
The South African growth for the global economy.
re-opening of the Voorspoed mine, operations lifted output by 10% to while $115 million has been 15.2 million carats.
Debswana allocated to the South African Sea Areas marine mining project.
14 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 Base Metals Anglo Base Metals grew the Collahuasi molybdenum plant Business unit head operating profits to a new high which came in under budget and Peter Smith of $1,678 million as metal prices ahead of time.
continued to reach new highs and record production was Nickel output from ongoing achieved for zinc, nickel, operations increased by 11% niobium, zircon and rutile to 26,500 tonnes as Codemins from ongoing operations.
nickel production rose 48% to Operating profit 9,600 tonnes following the Controllable costs were well completion, within budget and 2004: contained, though margins were on time, of the Codemin 2 project.
$1,276m affected by significant increases in At Catalo, niobium output rose the costs of energy and most key after successful completion of a 2005: consumables, freight rates, higher project to improve metal yields.
treatment and refining charges and Improved recoveries raised rutile $1,678m by adverse currency movements.
and zircon production at Namakwa Sands, where a $43 million project Attributable copper production to lift rutile output by 26% and from ongoing operations declined zircon production by approximately by 6% to 634,600 tonnes.
The feasibility the Black Mountain Deeps project was due mainly to lower output study on the $1 billion, 33,000 has materially improved zinc and from Collahuasi, where attributable tonnes per annum Barro Alto nickel lead grades.
output fell from 211,600 tonnes project in Brazil will be completed to 187,900 tonnes, as a result of during 2006.
The outlook for 2006 is good, sulphide mill throughput being with most forecasters projecting reduced by equipment failures, Zinc production from ongoing strong global growth and constrained while an earthquake and pit wall operations was 7% higher.
Skorpion production increases across the base Fundamentals failures led to lower grades and has consistently achieved design metal industry.
With the possible may have less necessitated rescheduling of the capacity since May 2005, following exception of zinc, base metal markets influence on mine plan.
The $80 million a fire in the tankhouse in February may move into small surplus but short term price El Soldado pit extension project that interrupted ramp up.
Production fundamentals may have less movements than remains on schedule and within for the year was 11% higher at influence on short term price fluctuating levels budget.
The improving movements than fluctuating levels of investment fide-bottlenecking project, which performance of Lisheens new of investment fund interest.
Cost fund interest increases production capacity backfill plant allowed secondary pressures are likely to remain of anode blister from 162,000 mining to begin, leading to increased intense, as the entire supply chain to tonnes to 184,000 tonnes, was zinc and lead production and improved the base metal industry is operating successfully completed, as was grades.
Substantial completion of at or close to capacity.
Left: At the Chagres copper smelter in Chile, 100 kilometres from Santiago, a $21 million fide-bottlenecking project to further modernise and upgrade the plant was completed in late 2005.
Annual production capacity of copper anode blister has been raised from 162,000 tonnes to 184,000 tonnes.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 | 15 Operating review continued Coal Business unit head John Wallington Operating profit 2004: $497m 2005: $1,019m Right: Increased production at many operations, combined with higher prices, led to a strong performance by Anglo Coal in 2005.
Here, at the partly owned Richards Bay Coal Terminal on South Africas Indian Ocean coastline, a giant stacker-reclaimer works a stockpile of coal destined for utilities in Japan.
Anglo Coal lifted operating partially offset by Dartbrook where continuing with the expansion to profit by 105% to a record production was restricted by difficult 28 million tonnes per annum Mtpa, $1,019 million.
Strong which should be completed by the end was attributable to improved demand across the industry for of 2006.
Further expansion to 32 Mtpa The Lake Lindsay export prices and a 4% rise in key resources created contractor has commenced.
Work continues on feasibility study production to 93 million tonnes.
availability shortfalls that limited the feasibility study for Monash, a was completed, production at some sites and resulted fuel from brown coal project.
with the $516 Operating profit for South Africanin increased costs.
million project sourced coal, at $463 million, was Hard coking coal prices are commencing 84% higher than for the previous In South America, operating profit anticipated to be firm in the coming in early 2006 year.
Production rose by 4% to was up by 44% to $240 million on year, but prices for semi-soft coking 56.9 million tonnes following the the back of export price increases and pulverised coal injection PCI start up of the Isibonelo mine in July and a 5% increase in production to coals will reflect the downward and higher production elsewhere.
These gains trend which commenced in 2005.
Subject to regulatory clearances, were counteracted in part by Although thermal coal demand for the $264 million Mafube coal increases in operating costs caused 2006 appears to be generally firm, project in South Africa will increase by rising fuel prices, royalties and improved supply infrastructure thermal coal production by 5 million the strengthening of the Colombian performance, combined with tonnes from 2008.
Anglo Coal and Venezuelan currencies against incremental supply increases, share 2.5 million tonnes.
Consequently, average thermal Operating profit for the Australian In Australia, ramp up continues on coal prices in 2006 are expected operations climbed by 305% to the $835 million Dawson expansion to be slightly lower than in 2005.
The $151 million Grasstree contributed strongly to the result, project is planned to start production Substantial capital expenditure will as did an increase in production of during the second half of 2006. continue to be invested in all regions, 0.5 million tonnes to 26.1 million The Lake Lindsay feasibility study was with the main resulting increases in tonnes.
The increase in output completed, with the $516 million production, especially in Australia, was mainly a result of improved project commencing in early 2006. coming through in 2007. performance at Moranbah North, In South America, Cerrejn is 16 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 Ferrous Metals and Industries Tongaat-Huletts operating profit rose Kumbas operating profit was Business unit head to $131 million 2004: $69 million $568 million 2004: $203 million.
Philip Baum following improved performances Stronger commodity prices and from all of its divisions.
higher sales volumes, together with solid operational performances and In 2006 global iron ore demand should increased cost savings, were offset remain firm.
Market consensus is that in part by the strong rand.
As part of iron ore prices should rise by 10% to its black economic empowerment Operating profit transaction announced in October, 20%.
Vanadium prices are, however, Kumbas iron ore assets are to be unlikely to match those achieved in 2004: partially unbundled to Kumba 2005, though the manganese alloy $887m shareholders and two separate market should strengthen.
Prospects listed entities established, Kumba for continued real growth in global 2005: Iron Ore and Newco.
Anglo steel demand remain positive, with American will own 66% of Kumba the strongest growth again expected $1,456m Iron Ore and 17% of Newco.
$559 million Sishen iron ore expansion project was approved by Kumba in March 2005 and will lift Ferrous Metals and Industries annual production by 10 million Below: Prior to a furnace operating profit reached a record tonnes to 41 million tonnes by 2009. metal pouring operation, a refractory lined steel ladle $1,456 million, up 64% on 2004. is gas heated at Scaw Metals, This resulted from substantially Highveld Steel had a record year, one of Africas largest higher iron ore and vanadium with an operating profit of diversified iron, steel and prices, generally greater volumes $436 million 2004: $169 million.
and increased cost savings, This was largely due to higher partially offset by the strong rand vanadium prices, relatively strong and lower manganese alloy prices.
sales into the South African steel market and cost saving initiatives.
Several non-core disposals were completed in 2005 for a combined Scaw also produced its best ever attributable enterprise value for results, posting an operating profit of Anglo American of $1,029 million.
Anglo American has decided to Strong demand for cast and forged dispose of its interest in Highveld, products offset a weaker performance while Tongaat-Hulett has recently from rolled products.
announced its intention to unbundle and list its aluminium business, The attributable share of Samancors Hulett Aluminium, and operating profit amounted to simultaneously introduce black $144 million 2004: $241 million.
economic empowerment equity The manganese operations participation in both Tongaat-Hulett experienced lower sales volumes and Hulett Aluminium.
and substantially lower alloy prices.
In 2006 global demand for iron ore should remain firm Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 | 17 Operating review continued Industrial Minerals Operating profit for the division increased substantially at the start Business unit head was 12% lower at $370 million, of 2006 despite production delays at Robbie Robertson while Tarmacs operating profit Yang Quarry in the Shanghai region.
declined by 4% to $340 million, Profits at Copebrs were $37 million mainly because of difficult UK lower, mainly due to a 17% market conditions in the second appreciation of the Brazilian real half of the year and higher since 2004. energy costs.
Operating profit Tarmacs fundamental organisational In the UK, volumes were generally restructuring was completed in 2004: flat.
The single exception was the second half of the year.
This $421m cement, where output was lifted brings greater alignment between after the Buxton cement plant the companys organisation and a 2005: successfully ramped up to full dynamic marketplace and production.
Margins came under strengthens its ability to drive through $370m pressure in the second half with continuous improvement, which prices affected by competitive delivered cost savings of $86 million conditions, while costs were during the year.
impacted by energy related increases.
The weak UK housing market led to a Tarmac is undertaking a strategic softening of demand for concrete In the UK, portfolio review designed to increase products.
This was particularly true the Buxton focus and improve performance and of Aircrete blocks, where the market cement plant is currently planning to exit certain declined by some 11%, although successfully non-core businesses in Germany and Tarmacs share increased slightly.
ramped up to Hong Kong, as well as the concrete full production paving business in the UK.
The The contribution from Tarmacs disposal of Tarmacs business in international businesses was in India was completed in 2005. line with last year.
This reflected a strong performance in France and the In 2006 market conditions in the Middle East, offset by weaker demand UK are expected to remain difficult, in Germany and Poland.
Tarmacs with sluggish demand and rising international portfolio grew modestly, energy costs.
In Brazil, the business with a number of small bolt-on environment will once again be acquisitions in Poland and France, challenging, with increasing pressure while three acquisitions were also on margins if the countrys currency made in its aggregates business in the continues to appreciate.
UK, Poland and, in early 2006, in Romania.
In China, production Right: The soaring ceiling of Canary Wharf station on Londons Jubilee Line, which required a high level of finished concrete, supplied by Tarmac.
18 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 Paper and Packaging Left: Paper reels in a new Difficult trading conditions Austrian warehouse of Mondi persisted across all key markets, Business Paper, one of the and operating profit declined leading manufacturers of high by 13% to $495 million.
was, however, able to deliver $223 million in cost savings and profit improvement initiatives.
Mondi Packagings operating profit was $4 million lower, at $293 million.
Cost savings and profit improvements were offset by sustained weakness in its trading environment the result of overcapacity and lacklustre manufacturing growth in core European markets.
The most difficult market was sackpaper, which saw substantial price declines.
A number of paper machines achieved all-time production records, while productivity improved by almost 8% across the business.
In response to overcapacity in the corrugated sector Mondi has restructured its operations.
This involved the closure of four plants in the UK and France, the disposal of a further nine plants in the UK and other rationalisation measures across the remaining operations.
Mondi Business Papers operating Business unit head One-off cash costs associated profit declined by 9% to David Hathorn with these restructurings amounted $163 million.
Although demand to $15 million, with a further remained reasonable, overcapacity Mondi has $62 million in asset and goodwill and a strong euro which attracts strengthened write-downs and provisions.
The dollar denominated imports kept its position as restructuring programme will yield pricing under pressure during the one of the annual cash flow benefits in excess year.
Uncoated woodfree sales leading low cost Operating profit of $22 million, of which $12 million volumes increased by 3.3% on the suppliers of has been realised in 2005.
This is in back of additional production from uncoated 2004: addition to steps taken over the past the successful Ruzomberok PM18 woodfree paper $569m 18 months to rationalise the rebuild in Slovakia.
In South Africa, upstream paper business, including the Merebank rebuild and the 2005: the closure of two high cost recycled Richards Bay RB720 project have containerboard mills, representing now been commissioned and full $495m around 14% of Mondi Packagings production is expected during 2006. total capacity in these grades.
Mondi is considering a 1 million With the acquisition of US release tonnes per year softwood pulp liner manufacturer Akrosil, completed expansion, at a capital cost of in January 2006, Mondi Packaging $1.5 billion, at its Syktyvkar plant in consolidated its position as one of north west Russia in order to meet the main players in the global release growing worldwide pulp demand, liner sector.
The recent acquisition, driven mainly by China.
which remains subject to competition clearance, of Paper Factory While it is still too early to call Stambolijski in Bulgaria, strengthens a sustained turnaround in trading its position as one of the leading conditions there are signs of global suppliers of sack kraftliner.
The recently A recently approved 39 million implemented price increases in project to rebuild the PM1 machine at containerboard and uncoated Swiecie in Poland will increase Mondi woodfree reflect the benefits Packagings penetration of the fast of industry rationalisation and growing lightweight kraftliner market.
improved demand, although sustained dollar weakness may undermine any recovery.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 | 19 Operating review continued Exploration As the prelude to any new Anglo Coal $13 million is mining project, exploration is assessing the viability of methane fundamental to the Groups production in South Africas success.
And as the world Waterberg coalfield.
It completed becomes increasingly well scoping studies on Chinas Xiwan prospected, Anglo American is project and began drilling on the searching for new deposits in Guxian prospect.
Coal exploration remoter regions, such as the is also being carried out in Canada.
Arctic Circle and central Africa.
In 2005 it spent $150 million on Anglo Ferrous Metals $21 million exploration across 32 countries.
is exploring for iron ore in South Africa on both greenfield and Anglo Base Metals which spent brownfield sites and continues $50 million has found significant to evaluate opportunities in new resources close to the Chilean west Africa.
copper mines of Los Bronces and El Soldado and near the Catalo Anglo Platinum $21 million is niobium mine in Brazil.
Elsewhere, exploring near existing operations work continues on extending the and in South Africas Bushveld copper resources discovered by Anglo Complex.
Early-stage drilling at American at Boyongan in the Chinas Danba project has been Philippines, while greenfield encouraging and programmes exploration is in progress in Chile, continued in Brazil, Canada, Brazil, Indonesia, Mexico and Peru.
Nickel sulphide mineralisation has been discovered at West Raglan, AngloGold Ashanti $45 million Canada, and drilling continues for is exploring around many of its nickel resources at the Mosku project existing operations, as well as in in Finland and the MAN project in China, Colombia, the Democratic Alaska.
Delineation of the nickel Republic of Congo, Laos, Mongolia, laterite discovery at Jacar, Brazil, the Philippines and Russia.
Above: In its relentless search for metals the Anglo Group is looking at new frontier territory in the Arctic region.
Here a drill rig has been set up by Anglo Base Metals in 2.5 metres of snow south of the Alaskan city of Fairbanks.
The technology multiplier Anglo American draws Anglo Research and Anglo Technical costs and boost throughput of value heavily on technology and Division work closely alongside the bearing ore. research to maintain a lead operating divisions on continuous in its core mining activities.
At the Safety needs are often an Technology as a core other end of the spectrum, research important component of research competence adds significant focuses on cutting edge innovation and Anglo Technical Division is value to operations, thereby and a number of pilot plants to test looking into safety commissioning enhancing shareholder value.
potential breakthrough technologies procedures for major processing are in place or are at the design stage.
plant such as mills, furnaces and It is important for significant solvent extraction plants, where research and development activity In one innovative study, finite-element incidents are more likely during to be undertaken in house, analysis techniques are being used initial start up or after change although external partnerships are to identify potential areas of weakness interventions.
The Anglo in underground mining vehicles.
American Research Laboratory and Another project is investigating the Other projects are aimed at the Anglo Platinum Research Centre use of microwaves and radio frequency improving energy efficiency or reducing have recently merged to form heating to pre-condition ores before environmental impact.
A third is testing Anglo Coal is studying a number will come together on the same site, hyperspectral scanning technology of clean coal technologies to further to derive maximum synergies and as an aid to ore sorting.
Removing the sustainable use of this fuel in value adding benefits from the waste rock before crushing and long term, environmentally friendly new structure.
separation can reduce operating applications.
20 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005
