Operating Review A year ago we set out five key areas for focus, with the objective of restoring Matalan to a sustainable growth platform.
This has been achieved by re-establishing the business strength as a value, volume retailer and is best evidenced by the like for like sales growth delivered across the year.
The business has consistently delivered against the five areas Improving product availability of focus: Throughout the year Matalan has made a substantial improvement in product availability.
New ranges have been launched earlier and Re-establishing the value proposition with real authority, supported by our mailer programme where Matalans value proposition is to provide High Street quality at availability levels have been consistently above 90%.
In addition, half the price.
This, when combined with extensive choice and a greater flexibility has been introduced into the supply chain.
programme of compelling promotional offers, delivers a unique Greater use has been made of suppliers with shorter lead times to proposition to our customers.
ensure that more fashionable product can be sourced and replenished quickly to meet demand.
Over the last twelve months like for like sales growth has been achieved by driving volume growth of 8.1% and reducing average Improving retail standards selling prices by 3.6%.
Average selling prices include the effects of We continue to make progress towards improving the quality of reduced prices around 2% and of changes to sales mix through shopping experience offered to our customers.
greater volumes being driven through lower price point products.
Operationally, our store teams are focused on improving basic retail standards and the consistency of delivery in each store.
Our Consistent value led marketing stores are in much better shape than a year ago in terms of Our mailer, which is our most powerful marketing tool and goes product merchandising, availability and service, although we to six million customers each month, reverted to a monthly profile, recognise that there is still much scope for future improvement.
with content focused on communicating the key value components of low prices, compelling offers, breadth of choice To support the delivery by our store teams of improved retail standards, new training and development programmes have and product quality equivalent to the High Street.
This approach has reduced volatility in our trading patterns and the impact on been introduced.
These have been awarded National Vocational sales has been strong and more predictable.
Qualification status and have been completed by more than 3 Operating Review continued 8,000 of our store colleagues.
We have also launched our The first 30 stores have been successfully refurbished with apprenticeship scheme, with an initial intake of one hundred 16 average sales continuing to show uplifts 5% ahead of the chain to 18 year olds.
A further 30 stores will be refurbished over the next twelve months.
Our refurbishment programme will address the physical improvements needed in each store and over the last six months Over the last twelve months the business has been stabilised, we have completely upgraded our EPOS systems, allowing better grown profits and reduced debt.
This has been achieved by service delivery to our customers through reduced transaction delivering better value to customers through lower prices, times and ensuring all our stores are chip and pin accredited.
stronger promotions, improved quality and greater choice.
In a tougher marketplace, the focus over the next twelve months is to Refurbishing the estate manage greater efficiencies into the business, delivering At the beginning of the year we introduced a programme of store improved margins and stronger cashflows.
Historically, the company has never had a large scale refurbishment programme.
The intention is to improve the shopping environment in each store every four to five years.
The programme will address 30 to 40 stores per annum at an average cost of around 200,000 per store with an expected John King payback of less than two years.
