All the land on which we build has had a Even in the more difficult trading prior use, and is centrally located urban brownfield land.
environment of the last 12 months the The housebuilding industry in the UK currently delivers Groups straightforward and effective approximately 140,000 new homes annually, of which our homes would account for just 1.4%.
However, in the specialist business model, focussing on retirement niche of House Manager assisted retirement housing our market housing in the UK, continues to produce share is approximately 65%, clearly a leading market position.
what must still be regarded as good We believe the specialist market that we serve has the results.
We combine our Regions capacity to grow significantly as the population in the UK ages, the number of homeowners coming through into responsibility for key operational processes retirement increases, with a greater number of elderly with strong central controls.
people living longer and on their own.
At present 30% of all households in the UK are headed by someone aged 60 or McCarthy & Stone and its Market Position older.
There are currently 11.4 million people of pensionable age, which is estimated to increase to 15.3 million by 2031.
McCarthy & Stone operates across the UK from Inverness to Again, at present, 90% of older people live in general Penzance.
Where there are reasonable clusters of elderly housing, with only 1% living in private sheltered housing.
home-owners, we wish to be represented.
The Groups Head The Group has a great opportunity for long term growth.
Office in Bournemouth oversees the regional structure covering eight regions and an Assisted Living Division each with their The Groups business model also generates ancillary income own Directors and staff.
These businesses secure the land, streams.
We purchase land on a freehold basis and obtain planning, undertake construction and deliver sales.
Over apartments are sold on 125 year leases.
In addition to the the course of the year we were active on a total of 328 sites.
sales revenue generated from the sale of the leases, the Group creates a ground rent income stream and a rental The Group specialises in building 1 and 2 bedroom retirement income stream on House Manager flats.
In due course all apartments in developments ranging from, typically, 30 to 70 the apartments within a development are sold, and the units with home sizes generally in the order of 500 to 800 sq freeholds and the related income stream from the leases are feet c. 46-75 sq m. Selling prices last year ranged from sold to professional landlords, experienced in the ownership 68,000 to 344,000 with an average selling price of and management of such income streams.
Only 70 units, 4% of the total, sold for prices in 7 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Operational Review Historically these interests were capitalised as fixed asset All our Regions were affected by the more difficult market investment properties but, in recent years, the Group has conditions that prevailed over the last year.
The South East, sold these interests more frequently and, in July 2005, in relative terms, fared slightly better as it had longer to announced that it had entered into an agreement with adjust to this market although it has since hardened again Owners Provident, effective for new developments released whilst Scotland, which had a buoyant market in 2003 04, from April 2005, under which they will buy newly created came into the 2004 05 financial year with a strong forward property interests on a rolling basis over the following twelve sales position and experienced a slowing market.
The agreement can be extended.
Accordingly, these Midlands Region produced a steady performance year on interests are no longer classified as fixed asset investment year whilst both North London and North East, being two properties.
This has no effect on the total profit recognised newer regions, were able to increase their output.
Our but does accelerate the receipt of the proceeds to McCarthy Western Region found the conditions most difficult whilst & Stone, which should amount to approximately 25 million our North West and South West Regions had to work hard to in the twelve months from July 2005.
Proceeds are achieve their outcomes.
Our newer Assisted Living division, recognised as income in line with the timing of the sale of the which has hitherto benefited from a faster sales rate, moved underlying leasehold unit.
closer into line with our general sales experience.
We have long predicted that gross margins would ease.
In Retirement Housing Sales the period, the gross margin was 50% after the record 56% We sold 1,983 units 2,055, a reduction of 3.5% on the margin achieved in the last financial year.
In the first-half we achieved 792 unit sales 780 and build costs are a factor, and last year we had to provide and in the difficult trading period between March and August for increased levels of sales incentives which amounted to 2005 we sold 1,191 units 1,275.
The second half spanned 3,000 per unit 2,200.
We also offered a significantly the General Election campaign which caused short term higher level of sales allowances to facilitate external part disruption to the housing market which then failed to bounce exchange than we have had to in recent years, which is back, as had been widely expected.
As usual we recorded a reflected in the average sales price and turnover.
This lower heavier seasonal weighting to the second-half year with over level of gross margin inevitably fed through to a lower 60% of our completions occurring in this period.
During the operating margin as higher administration costs, reflecting year we sold, on average, from 100 active sites 77 and from a increasing staff numbers, reduced profits.
To counter the more difficult trading Despite the increase in our average selling price, our homes conditions we opened more sites but our completions per remain affordable for the majority of our purchasers who are active site per month were slower than the previous year.
The average age of our purchasers The Group achieved an average selling price of 163,500 in our standard developments was similar to last year at 76.
The increase in selling price For our Assisted Living apartments the average age of our per square foot was 8%.
The rise was principally the result purchaser is somewhat higher at approximately 82.
We of newer, higher priced developments coming on stream worked well with our external part exchange providers and during the period and lower priced older developments there was a marked increase in the use of this service, selling out.
The proportion of 2 bedroom units sold in the particularly towards the end of the year.
continue to have only a modest requirement for mortgages, Trafalgar Court, Penzance 8 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Operational Review reflecting principally that most customers will have paid off their mortgage with only a few having an outstanding mortgage on their dependent property.
We facilitate, through external professional financial advisers, the take-up of shared equity or rolled up interest offers by our customers or rolled up interest facilities but in total these generally amount to approximately 10% of our unit sales.
The Groups national marketing spend increased by approximately 17% over the year, and the cost per completion arising from national marketing leads also increased, as we would expect in a more testing market.
We were pleased to see that our marketing programmes delivered over 30,000 first time visitors to our sales outlets, a 6% increase over last year.
The importance of the Groups website, www.
co. uk, was again emphasised.
Our investment in online marketing showed a 6% increase in enquiries leading to a 40% increase in visitors and a 19% increase in completions arising from the website, and as a result, some 8% of our completions originated from the website.
The Group believes that not only are our elderly Morgan Court, Swansea purchasers becoming more active in searching the web but that it is a useful guide for friends and family.
We regularly enhance our website and ensure it provides details of all our continued to rise.
Nevertheless, we continue to adhere to our sites and pricing indications on our selling sites, as well as normal margin requirements which we have not reduced in identifying land acquisition requirements and employment the face of the competitive land situation.
course of the year the land acquisition process has, if anything, become more stringent and we have withdrawn Land and Stock from a number of sites which we regard as being less The Group exchanged contracts on 58 sites 77 but desirable or more marginal in what are more difficult trading contracts lapsed, or sites were sold, on a total of 11 sites conditions.
We have also continued to ensure that the providing a net addition of 47 land exchanges 69, increasing requirements to make affordable housing representing 2,099 units 2,864.
The average cost of land contributions do not dilute our margins.
per unit exchanged in the period was 40,500 37,300.
The Group completed in total on 45 sites 58 representing The average land cost per unit exchanged as a percentage of 2,180 units which will provide the basis for the build current average achieved selling prices ie 163,500 programme over the year ahead.
However, based on the projected Despite the difficult land market our unique business model sales values at current prices on the specific sites acquired, does help us to acquire high quality land.
By virtue of the the land cost as a proportion of revenue dropped from 23% density we achieve and the relatively low car parking provision last year to 22% in 2004 05. required on each site, the Group has the ability to maximise The Group has continued the practice of attributing target sales revenue per site across a given land cost.
This should give prices for land acquisition to each Region, and this has been us a competitive edge in bidding for the best located sites.
of benefit during the year.
Year end Stock Units Whilst in sales terms the market has been tough, the shortages in land supply continue.
The difficulties inherent in 2005 2004 the planning system further restrict effective supply of land.
Finished 2,692 2,217 There is little sign, as yet, of any easing in the land market.
Under construction 1,603 1,977 Most sites are acquired conditional on the subsequent 4,295 4,194 achievement of a satisfactory planning consent.
If planning Land with planning 2,443 2,212 cannot be achieved on a commercial basis the Group has the option of allowing the contract to lapse.
During the year only Unconditional four sites 13 were acquired unconditionally.
Land now held land without planning 630 612 unconditionally and remaining without planning, amounted to Conditional 23.4 million 18.6m at the year end.
These sites are land without planning 3,294 3,378 regularly reviewed and remain within the Groups margin Total land holdings 10,662 10,396 requirements and locational parameters.
Land costs have 9 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Sanderling View, Troon Operational Review The year end land creditors amounted to 160.7 million 141.6m.
Overall, the number of units in stock increased by 2% and total stockholdings represent 5.4 years sales at last years sales rate.
In recent years we have tried to increase overall land holdings and provide more finished stock on more sites to service future volume growth.
However, in the current trading environment, we are careful to keep our overall stockholdings in balance with current and anticipated sales rates.
Planning The Group secured 52 planning consents in the year, compared to the record of 63 consents in the previous year.
The 52 consents equate to 2,522 units 2,892, including 406 Assisted The increasing focus on new housing and extending home Living units 295, a 38% increase for that Division.
We were ownership must, nonetheless, take into account the differing successful in 8 10 out of the 14 16 appeals that we had to needs and aspirations of all sectors of the community, pursue, once again reflecting the careful and professional including the elderly whose numbers are projected to increase manner in which we assess the development potential of our substantially over the next decade and beyond.
Of the six sites on which we were unsuccessful at appeal, Planning for Housing Provision makes no reference to ageing we have subsequently achieved planning consents for revised and the housing consequences of these demographic changes.
schemes on two of those sites and are progressing revised There is also limited reference to housing for the elderly proposals on three others.
The appeal dismissal in relation to beyond enabling older people to stay in their own homes in our site at Hoylake in the North West, on the grounds of a the Governments strategy Opportunity Age, published earlier Housing Moratorium for new build, is being challenged in the in 2005, and aimed at managing demographic change so that High Court.
older people will be better able to achieve their aspirations.
On average, last year it took 63 weeks 56 to achieve a We look forward to the forthcoming revision of PPG3 Housing planning consent from local authorities an obvious which will require, and give guidance to, local authorities to concern to the Group and one which is echoed by the assess properly the wide range of housing needs, including housebuilding industry as a whole.
Unfortunately, the length those of older people.
We have been working closely with the of time taken thereafter to resolve S. 106 planning obligations ODPM in this regard.
We also support the Town and Country and to discharge planning conditions and hence to receive Planning Associations call for Inclusive Communities where the formal notice of consent, further frustrates our ability to the right type of new homes are delivered in the right locations, commence construction on site.
In part, these delays are the in recognition that increasing longevity is one of the key drivers result of the limited resources available to the local authorities.
behind the demand and need for additional housing.
In the year we agreed to provide off site contributions Proper Needs Assessments are fundamental to the adoption of amounting to 6.9 million 5.3m towards affordable housing more balanced planning policies that will facilitate the delivery and also provided 51 50 on site affordable units in a variety of of genuine housing choice for older people.
A clear example forms and tenures.
The joint venture vehicle, Kindle Homes, in of the consequences of not having properly assessed the wide which we have a 50% interest, is working well as, effectively, range of housing needs and aspirations is the situation within our in-house housing association with a total commitment now the North West Region which we referred to in the Interim to provide 142 affordable housing units.
As well as contributing Statement in April this year.
An increasing number of local affordable housing, we have been required to make payments in authorities are applying policies that are preventing the excess of 500,000 towards various community facilities, such private sector from developing new retirement homes for as public open spaces and highway improvements.
The result is that existing older home escalating requirements for such planning gain is now in real owners who might be living in accommodation that is difficult danger of prejudicing the release of land for new housing to manage or inappropriate for their needs are being denied development, as confirmed in a recent study undertaken by the the opportunity to move into a home that is more suited to organisation London Development Research.
Yet, as with other areas of the UK, a high percentage of the population in the North West is over retirement age with We are encouraged, however, by the Governments recent the majority now owning their own homes.
recognition of the need to build more homes.
The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister Consultation Paper, Planning for We hope for a more favourable planning environment Housing Provision, published in July 2005, is welcomed as it following the forthcoming review of PPG3 and trust that has been clear to us over a number of years that problems local authorities will respond constructively to the call to related to the affordability of housing stem largely from a ensure better housing choice for the existing and future mismatch between supply and demand.
10 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Operational Review Construction The McCarthy & Stone Brand In the year first occupations occurred on 54 sites 55 The McCarthy & Stone brand has continued to strengthen on representing 2,458 units 2,585.
Some 23 first occupations the back of more sites, wider geographic spread of our sites arose in July and August 2005 24.
This boosted finished stock and increased public visibility through our on going availability for the year end and assisted the sales process, but it marketing efforts.
This, combined with the fact that we imposed particular pressures on the construction teams across provide around two-thirds of the nations new private sheltered the country as they sought to ensure that finished stock, housing, has helped McCarthy & Stone to be increasingly completed to a high quality, was available for sale.
recognised as the voice of the retirement housing industry.
We started 46 sites 55 during the year representing 2,085 Our reputation as Britains leading retirement builder has units 2,469.
We accepted a lower level of build starts over been underpinned by yet another Gold Award in the countrys the year so as to avoid stock levels and associated capital most prestigious Daily Express Housebuilding Awards.
This is lock-up becoming too high.
the seventh year running we have collected such an award, highlighting our quality and professionalism, as judged by In seeking to control our construction costs we have Customers, against the very best of Britains national builders.
continued to use our standardised approach and long tried and trusted construction methods.
We do trial fresh In the latest NHBC Customer Satisfaction Survey, McCarthy techniques regularly to see if they are cost effective, & Stone were judged in either first or second place on nearly environmentally sustainable or might shorten our all criteria measured.
The key test, Would you recommend construction programmes.
On the whole our construction your builder to a friend?
brought an overwhelming yes vote teams were successful in controlling build costs.
and significantly higher than the average for the largest new home builders in the UK.
Overall, our estimated build cost per unit has risen by approximately 9% over the period reflecting an increase in the We were delighted to have received enhanced recognition of basic build cost of some 8% and a rather higher increase in our environmental credentials in a major survey of listed extra over costs which we generally associate with ground housebuilders undertaken in the year jointly by the World conditions or planning requirements.
An element of these Wildlife Fund and Insight Investment, the asset manager of extra over costs relate to changing government building HBOS plc, as part of the WWFs One Million Sustainable regulations which have the tendency to load additional cost Houses campaign.
In the survey, which assesses our onto the development.
To accommodate some of these strategy and governance in relation to sustainability issues as changing regulations the Group has had to adapt certain well as the way in which we manage our environment and aspects of its long established building design, which has social impacts, we increased our overall score from 32% to imposed additional cost on the construction process.
In the 73% and improved our ranking from 10th to 5th place last year, even prior to the latest increases in energy related amongst the twelve listed housebuilders surveyed.
Indeed, costs, we were having to absorb an earlier raft of material cost we achieved the greatest improvement in the percentage increases where there was a high energy content.
The WWF Insight Investment Report, published in terms of material costs, we have enhanced our standard September this year, commended McCarthy & Stone for specification, particularly in relation to kitchens, which should having made the greatest progress in relation to its impacts assist additional revenue generation.
Santler Court, Malvern 11 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Operational Review Other notable accolades during the year include five Green Drakeford Court, Stafford Leaf Standard awards for environmentally friendly design and three National House Building Council Pride in the Job awards for McCarthy & Stone Site Managers.
Our direct involvement with government agencies and housing authorities, especially through the work of our Land & Planning Director Gary Day, has, I am glad to say, given the Company a real influence in the formulation of housing policies for Britains older population.
This has included the sponsorship of the Chartered Institute of Housing Good Practice Guide on sheltered housing and the International Longevity Centre UK for their research on assessing the housing needs and aspirations of older people.
During September 2005, we also presented to all three political party conferences at seminars hosted by the Town and Country Planning Association and we have also been invited to contribute to the ODPMs new Planning Policy Statement PPS3 : the Governments definitive set of planning guidelines.
Paul Trofimov, Managing Director of our Assisted Living Division, has had similar success in building strategic relationships with county authorities, who are trying to Since March 1993 we have delivered a total shareholder develop a formal programme of housing delivery for older return of 2,631%, or over 30% per annum compound.
have moved our average selling price forward from 61,300 Whilst all these activities are a natural extension of our to 163,500.
We have increased our net assets per share responsibility as a respected public company, they also help from 65.7p to 411.8p.
We have paid off a loan stock of contribute to further enhance McCarthy & Stones reputation 14.8 million, redeemed Preference shares of 22.2 million, in the eyes of the public and give the Company a voice when repaid the finance lease on the Groups Head Office of 18.4 and where it needs to be heard.
million and spent 15 million repurchasing Ordinary shares.
We have eliminated gearing which stood at 118% to a Strategy and Achievements position where we held cash balances of 38.3 million at the I stepped down from my role as Chief Executive on 31 year end.
From a position where we had to suspend August 2005 having held that position for twelve years.
In dividend payments we now record a compound increase in all but this year there has been a profit improvement.
dividends of 26% over the last ten years.
The share price I assumed the role when McCarthy & Stone was in a very which stood at 25p on 2 January 1993 was 650p on the eve difficult position and I relinquish it with the Company being of preliminary announcement on 3 November 2005.
I was well respected, successful and with a strong track record pleased to receive an award in Bristol, sponsored by PWC and in good financial health.
The Groups strategy has been and Rowan Dartington, to record the best share price to focus its energies on a clear and effective business model performance over a ten year period in the West Country, in with the objective of delivering customer satisfaction and that period recording an increase of 981%.
We are proud of substantial shareholder returns.
We have delivered outstanding profit and earnings per share I am confident that with the strong executive team in place growth with only the last year reflecting the impact of more in the longer term the Group is well positioned to take difficult trading conditions.
We have achieved these results advantage of the increasing elderly home owners coming by focusing on the key elements of our business and seeking through into retirement.
to maximise our performance within every sphere.
We have honed our land buying skills, tested our planning capabilities and improved upon our specialist construction expertise.
In terms of sales we have continually sought to enhance our capabilities.
Over the years we have sought to obtain improved prices wherever possible and to nudge margins forward at all stages of the development process.
Over this period we have invested in our material assets and infrastructure, but we have also invested in the key people Keith Lovelock we need to carry the business forward.
