Chairmans statement 007 has been an outstanding year for the Group, producing record results quarter after quarter while continuing significant organic expansion, both geographically and by discipline.
Market conditions have been strong, with favourable economic activity and positive business confidence driving demand for talent, combined with a shortage of suitably qualified candidates.
Highlights revenue for the year ended 1 December 007 increased 8.1% to 8 1.6m 006: 6 9.1m and gross profit grew by 7.1% to 78.1m 006: 8.8m.
reflecting strong market conditions, gross profits from permanent placements grew more rapidly than from temporary placements.
this movement in business mix, together with an increase in margins on temporary placements, contributed to an increase in gross margin to 7.
Given the Groups high operational gearing, operating profits increased by.
% to a record 1 9. m 006: 97. m. the Groups conversion rate, which is the proportion of gross profit converted into operating profit, rose to 1.
ProducIng tax was 1 7. m 006: 97.0m and basic earnings per share record results increased by 8.7% to 1.1p 006: 19.6p.
Cash generated from operations increased by 88.6% to 1 8.7m 006: quarter after 78.8m driven by the increase in operating profits and good quarter whIle working capital management.
contInuIng the success of our strategy to diversify the business, both geographically and by discipline, through organic growth is sIgnIfIcant organIc increasingly evident, with the eMea region now the largest exPansIon, both in the group.
over 60% of the Groups gross profits were generated outside the uK.
With a heritage in Finance and geograPhIcally accounting recruitment, it is likely that these disciplines will and by dIscIPlIne.
continue to represent a significant proportion of the business for some time.
however, the other professional disciplines, we are successfully rolling-out, now account for just over % of the Groups gross profit and the proportion generated from Finance and accounting will continue to reduce.
16 MIChael paGe InternatIonal Dividends and share repurchases Board of Directors With a strong growth in earnings, it is the Boards intention to on May 007 ruby McGregor-Smith, Chief executive of continue its policy of reviewing the annual dividend, with a view MItIe Group plc, joined as a non-executive director.
We are to increasing it by a level which we believe can be sustained delighted to welcome her to the Board.
Surplus cash generated in Prospects excess of these dividend levels will continue to be returned to shareholders through share repurchases.
While the economic cycle is the most important short-term factor, there are a number of long-term structural changes that are With the strong growth in profits, earnings and cash generation, having a positive impact on the specialist recruitment markets.
the Board is recommending an increase in the total dividend these key drivers include a deregulation of the labour markets, per share for the year of %.
6p 006: demographic changes, an increased global shortage of.
p per share is proposed which, together with the interim qualified professionals, increasing job mobility and a greater dividend of.
p 006: 1.8p per share paid in october, makes awareness and acceptance for companies to use specialist a total dividend for the year of 8.0p 006: 6.0p per share.
the final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 9 June 008 to those shareholders on the register at 9 May 008. the latter part of 007 has created significant uncertainty the total dividend is covered.
9 times by basic earnings per over the short-term prospects for the global economy and share of 1.1p.
consequently business confidence, investment and hiring plans.
It is a characteristic of the permanent recruitment We repurchased shares throughout 007, acquiring 1.
1m market that earnings visibility is short.
Since the start of the shares for 7.
We have no intention of changing our current year, with the exception of certain sectors related to strategy on the Groups capital structure.
Given the fall in the banking market, we continue to experience similar yearthe share price in the latter part of 007, and our intention to on-year increases in activity levels in all of our regions.
continue to use surplus cash to repurchase the Companys shares, in order to not be unduly constrained, we will be our next trading statement covering the first quarter, which seeking shareholders consent for an increase in the in this year, unlike 007, includes the easter period, will be maximum authority to repurchase shares from 10% to 1 % released on 7 april 008. at the annual General Meeting on May 008.
Employees I wish to express my thanks to the employees worldwide for their commitment, loyalty and efforts throughout the year which delivered the outstanding performance in 007.
Sir adrian montague CBE Chairman March 008 annual report 007 17 Operational reView In 007, we have grown gross profits by 7% and delivered record operating profits of 1 9m, up %.
this time last year we described 006 as a very strong year for the Group, growing gross profits 0% and producing 97m of operating profit.
We also said that we would continue with our strategy of expanding organically, gradually diversifying and reducing our dependency upon any single geographic market or individual discipline and that we would accelerate the pace of implementation.
our results for 007 confirm that we have followed this through and how successful we have been.
having opened in five countries in 006, our geographic expansion continued in 007 with openings in luxembourg and argentina.
More significantly, we increased our fee generating and support staff by nearly 1, 00 people, enabling us to expand existing and open new offices, as well as continuing our discipline roll-out.
at the end of 007, the Group had, 0 006:, 7 8 fee generating and support staff, operating from 1 9 006: 1 offices in 006: countries.
Branding and market positioning over the last 0 years, the Group has developed a clear brand strategy for the middle to senior-management professional fee earners offices countries, 96 91 87 79 8 In some locations offices are shared.
Michael page International is now a high-profile Both the Michael page and page personnel businesses are brand, globally recognised, that enables us to attract significant in terms of countries, office networks and fee consultants, candidates and clients in an ever increasing earners as illustrated in the chart below left.
Diversification as a result of the complex variation in legislation relating the objective of our strategy to diversify the business, both to how temporary and permanent recruitment is managed geographically and by discipline, while remaining focused on in different countries, we developed two brands for the the cyclical recruitment market, is to reduce the dependency clerical professional market.
In the uK, where we were only upon any one particular market.
We believe we have been focused on clerical accounting professionals, the brand was very successful in implementing this strategy as illustrated accountancy additions.
In europe, where in many countries in the table below which compares the gross profit from the legislation required us to have a separate business for business today with the position at the end of 000. temporary recruitment, the brand is page personnel.
In 000, nearly 0% of Group gross profit was generated in With changes in legislation over recent years, page personnel the uK.
In 007, it was less than 0%, with eMea now our can now operate, as did accountancy additions, in both largest region.
this and our desire to roll-out the brand to other disciplines, as we have successfully In 000, nearly 90% of Group gross profit was generated in done in europe, has resulted in us clarifying our strategy at four countries.
In 007, these same four countries generated this level with one brand.
In november 007, accountancy two-thirds of Group gross profit.
additions was rebranded to page personnel Finance and In 000, two-thirds of Group gross profit was generated by accounting and during 007 we launched in the uK two Finance and accounting.
other page personnel disciplines, human resources and Secretarial.
2007 2000 2007 2000 Gross profit 78.1m 8. m % of gross profit by Discipline % of gross profit by Region Finance and accounting % 66% eMea 1% 6% Marketing, Sales and retail 19% 1% uK 9% 9% legal, technology, hr, Secretarial 1 % 10% asia pacific 1 % 1 % and other americas 8% % engineering, property & Construction, 1 % % % of gross profit from four largest countries procurement & Supply Chain uK 9% 9% France 1 % % netherlands 7% 6% australia 7% 9% top 66% 89% annual report 007 19 Continental Europe, middle East and africa EmEa During 007, the eMea region achieved strong growth and is now the largest region in the Group, both in terms of gross profit and headcount.
revenue in eMea increased by.
0m and gross profit increased by.
as a result of the increased revenue and high operational gearing, the region produced an increase of 8.
headcount in the region increased by 6 0 % during the year to, 078, with the majority joining existing offices.
In a number of locations we have taken larger office space to accommodate the growth and we continued our longer-term investment opening in luxembourg and starting new offices durIng 2007, eMea in hamburg, Valencia and Bordeaux.
achIeved strong France % of eMea, which remains our second largest and growth and Is now most established business after the uK, had a very successful year growing gross profits by % in constant currency.
the largest regIon the restructuring of the Michael page and page personnel In the grouP, businesses, following the introduction of the Borloo law, is now starting to deliver significant growth with the back drop both In terMs of of stable economic conditions.
While the growth in France gross ProfIt and has been impressive, there remains significant scope for further growth, particularly when recognising that the 007 headcount.
gross profits of our French business are still approximately 10% below the gross profits produced in 000 and 001. elsewhere in the region, collectively, our businesses during 007 maintained the gross profit growth rate of 006 at 68%.
all countries contributed to this strong growth as we continue our discipline and geographic expansion.
In constant currency, the netherlands 18% of eMea grew gross profits by 7%, Germany 1 % of eMea grew gross profits by 7 %, Spain 11% of eMea grew gross profits by 9%, Italy 8% of eMea grew gross profits by 61% and Switzerland 8% of eMea grew gross profits by 116%.
EmEa GROSS PROfIt 2007 8% % Growth France 18% 99% Growth Belgium, South africa, uae, 33% Sweden, poland, portugal, russia, Ireland, luxembourg 61% Growth Italy 13% 9% Growth Spain 9% 7 % Growth Germany 11% 8% 7% Growth holland 116% Growth Switzerland Growth rates in local currency 0 MIChael paGe InternatIonal the new businesses which opened in 006 in Moscow, the combined gross profits of Michael page Marketing, Johannesburg, Dubai and Dublin, together with luxembourg Michael page Sales and Michael page retail, were % in 007, are ahead of plan.
they continue to grow rapidly higher than in 006 and, combined, represented % and collectively had 6 staff at the end of 007. of uK gross profit.
the Marketing and Sales businesses performed strongly and now operate from 10 and 9 locations With operating profits increasing by 8 % from an increase respectively.
retail, the smallest of the three businesses, had in gross profit of % and the conversion rate now at %, a tremendous year growing in excess of 0%.
there is little spare capacity within these businesses and future growth in profits will largely be driven by investment in Michael page legal, Michael page technology, Michael page new staff and office space to accommodate them.
human resources and Michael page Secretarial achieved growth of 6% and, combined, represented 16% of uK gross United kingdom profit.
From the legal business, we created a new business, Michael page offshore, which focuses on placing legal, tax In the uK, revenue increased by 1.
% to 60. m 006: and accounting candidates in some of the many offshore tax 1. m and gross profit by 19.
% to 186.0m 006: havens around the world.
% and represent a conversion rate of the more recently created Michael page engineering & 1.9% 006: 8.
We invested heavily during the year, Manufacturing, Michael page procurement & Supply Chain increasing headcount by 17% to 1,799 and opening new and Michael page property & Construction businesses, offices in pall Mall and Canary Wharf in london, leicester grew at over 0% and now represent 7% of uK gross profit.
these businesses all grew significantly in 007 and given the enormous scope for growth in these disciplines, we will the gross profits of the Finance and accounting businesses, continue to invest heavily in them.
which generated 1% of uK gross profit, were 11% higher than in 006.
Michael page Finance, the largest of the three I am delighted to report another outstanding year in Scotland, businesses, produced a mixed performance, with good growing gross profit by 0%.
In 007, we opened a new growth in the regions, being held back by below expectation office in aberdeen and moved into larger offices in edinburgh.
growth in london and the South east.
a number of changes Scotland now represents % of uK gross profit.
have been made to the management structure of these businesses, which should produce an improved performance asia Pacific in 008.
Michael page Financial Services had a very strong In the asia pacific region, revenue was 17.0% higher at first half of the year with good growth.
% higher at in the latter half of 007 has impacted certain parts of the 7. m 006:.
1% banking market and consequently our growth rate slowed, to 0.8m 006: 17.1m, with a conversion rate of 6.
% being flat year-on-year in the fourth quarter.
We invested in all the existing offices in the we continued to expand the page personnel office network region, increasing headcount by % to 6. from to 7, opening in Swindon and Sheffield.
Uk GROSS PROfIt 2007 7% 11% Growth Finance & accounting 16% % Growth Marketing, Sales and retail 0% Growth Scotland 50% 5% 6% Growth legal, hr, technology, Secretarial and other % Growth engineering, property & Construction, 22% procurement & Supply Chain annual report 007 1
