MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 18 operating review MITIE manages its operations with a clear set of targets and regularly evaluates the principal risks and uncertainties associated with its operations.
It has robust systems and processes that support the operations, allowing our businesses to achieve sustainable, profitable growth.
Financial KPIs Our equity ethos has driven a culture of financial focus through the Group Key performance and our principal financial indicators are shown to the right.
Group earnings before interest, indicators KPIs tax and amortisation EBITA Whilst we maintain a focus on profitability and Shareholder returns We manage our business by monitoring a range at a number of levels, our EBITA of financial and non-financial KPIs.
Some of these margin provides an indicator of the financial performance of our indicators, such as growth levels and profitability, operational businesses.
We monitor have always been used within our business.
Some, this indicator before and after the such as carbon emissions, are new and as reported application of charges for sharebased payments.
Whilst the difference in our CR Report, we are striving to enhance between the two measures of EBITA our measurement and understanding of these is marginal, EBITA before that charge will be the most consistent indicator indicators for MITIE.
of our underlying trading performance going forward.
Where we have non-recurring charges, such as integration costs on acquisitions, Organic growth Group EBITA before integrationcosts we exclude these from our measure.
03 13.6% 03 32.6m We target the attainment of medium term underlying EBITA margins before 04 18.3% 04 39.7m share-based payments and nonrecurring charges such as integration 05 15.5% 05 44.3m costs associated with acquisitions at between 5% and 6% at Group 06 13.5% 06 48.3m level.
The target ranges for our three divisions are shown to the right.
07 17.4% 07 62.2m Conversion of Group EBITDA to cash Conversion of EBITDA to cash Capital expenditure as% of turnover The efficiency with which we 03 111.6% 03 1.4% manage the generation of cash is an important indicator for our business.
04 86.8% 04 1.8% The MITIE Model and the Group are built on a sound understanding of 05 84.9% 05 1.3% the importance of cash and working capital management and that ethos 06 95.0% 06 1.2% remains critical to our business.
The conversion of Group EBITDA to cash 07 114.0% 07 1.8% is a significant cash ow indicator for us, but it is not the only one.
Dividend growth Note: 03 and 04 under UK GAAP, 2005 restated under IFRS.
We monitor daily and weekly cash ow trends too, a discipline that has 03 18.8% served us well this year as we have moved to a marginal net debt 04 31.6% position for the majority of the year following the acquisitions in Security.
05 36.0% This gives us confidence of our ability 06 26.5% to increase our gearing should the right acquisition opportunities arise 07 18.6% in the future.
18 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 19 Capital expenditure paid on 3 August 2007.
Historically, Further information on our health that dividend would have been and safety and environmental Our strength lies in the management paid on 28 September 2007. performance is provided in our CR of people and in the provision of Report which is being sent separately suitable assets to support their work, Going forward, our dividend cover to Shareholders and is available but our business is not capital will be calculated by reference to on our website, www.
We have historically exited our basic EPS before amortisation capital intensive businesses and of intangibles and non-recurring continue to target growth in areas charges.
that do not have substantial capital requirements.
Non-financial KPIs Dividend growth We utilise a range of non-financial KPIs across our business which It is important that we continue to has been developed to support target a progressive dividend policy our business offering, to enhance that provides an appropriate return service delivery and to ensure that to Shareholders and that provides our services are tailored to the a dividend which grows in line with needs of our clients.
the underlying profitability of the Group.
We have also reviewed our Our principal non-financial KPIs dividend payment policy to ensure are shown below.
that it is consistent with market practice, and will be paying future dividends earlier than we have done historically.
Our final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007 will be FINANCIAL KPIS Measurement KPI Target Year ended 31 March 2007 Year ended 31 March 2006 Group EBITA Maintain existing margins 5.1% 5.1% Conversion of EBITDA Over 90% of Group EBITDA to cash converted to cash 114.0% 95.0% Capital expenditure Maintain below 2.0% of revenue 1.8% 1.2% Dividend growth At least in line with underlying profit growth at a cover rate of 2.5 times adjusted earnings 18.6% 26.5% Before non-recurring integration costs.
DIVISIONAL EBITA TARGET RANGES Measurement Year ended 31 March 2007 Division Target After share-based payments Before share-based payments Facilities Services Between 6.0 and 7.0% per annum 6.0% 6.1% Property Services Between 4.5 and 5.0% per annum 4.9% 5.0% Engineering Services Between 3.0 and 4.0% per annum 2.8% 2.9% Total Group Between 5.0 and 6.0% per annum 5.1% 5.2% Before non-recurring integration costs.
Measurement Year ended 31 March 2006 Division Target After share-based payments Before share-based payments Facilities Services Between 6.0 and 7.0% per annum 6.4% 6.5% Property Services Between 4.5 and 5.0% per annum 5.4% 5.5% Engineering Services Between 3.0 and 4.0% per annum 2.5% 2.6% Total Group Between 5.0 and 6.0% per annum 5.1% 5.2% NON-FINANCIAL KPIs Measurement KPI Objective Year ended 31 March 2007 Year ended 31 March 2006 Reportable accidents Retain focus on reducing the risks 5.1 per 1,000 6.1 per 1,000 of accidents in our business employees employees Management turnover Enhance focus on the development and retention of key staff to maintain key staff turnover below 10% 8.6% not measured Retention of existing contracts Active contract retention rates within Facilities Services in excess of 90% 85.0% 84.0% Forward order book Increase order book 4.1bn not measured Carbon dioxide emissions Understand and minimise 0.7 tonnes equivalent not measured 2 the environmental impact CO per employee of our operations MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 20 Operating review continued Strategic risks those that concern the long-term strategic objectives of the business: Statement of Operational risks those that arise during day to day activities of the business which if not principal risks managed, could impact upon the running of the business and the ability of the business to deliver on its strategy: and uncertainties Financial risks those that directly impact upon the The Group has an established risk management nances of the business: and and corporate governance framework which is described Compliance risks those that in the corporate governance statement.
Within this relate to legal or regulatory framework, MITIE classies risks in four categories sanctions, financial loss, or the loss of reputation that may arise according to their potential impact on the Group: as a result of failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Principal strategic risks Principal operational risks New business Acquisitions Health, safety and environment As MITIEs business develops, the MITIE continues to seek to acquire Group will increasingly tender for businesses that t with, or compliment, The range and nature of activities that larger, more complex and multiits range of service offerings and MITIE undertakes give rise to a range services contracts.
The potential strategic risks of potential health, safety and this is an increase in risks surrounding associated with such activity include environmental risks.
These risks have the appropriate pricing of contracts an inability to achieve a cultural potential to impact upon all to ensure a fair balance of risk t and to manage the financial and stakeholders, including employees, and reward, agreeing fair commercial operational transition of the acquired the public and the environment.
terms and meeting contractual business into the Group.
If the downside Specic risks include working at obligations and expectations.
risks associated with this activity were height, installing and maintaining The crystallisation of the downside to materialise they could lead to electrical systems, using machinery of such risks could have a detrimental business disruption, loss of profits and harmful chemicals and working impact on the Groups profitability and reduced investor confidence.
on hazardous sites and in public and reputation, whilst sound These potential risks are mitigated areas.
The consequences of these management and acceptance by an experienced acquisitions team, risks may include injury, loss of life, of these risks will benefit the Groups supported by internal and external environmental damage, disruption service delivery capabilities and specialists and the Executive Directors to business activities, loss of reputation financial position.
who closely monitor the acquisition and financial penalty.
To address these risks, MITIEs system process.
All acquisitions require To manage these risks MITIE continues of internal control incorporates full Board approval, and following to develop a culture where every stringent contract review and acquisition an Executive Director employee takes responsibility for their approval mechanisms.
Depending is charged with the responsibility health and safety and where all on the nature of the contract and risks of ensuring that the business operational activity has a strong safety identied, a dedicated commercial acquired is integrated successfully.
Health and safety matters are bid team and specialists are used.
the first item on the agenda at all Effective contract management Board meetings.
The Chief Executive and contract monitoring procedures is responsible for health and safety are designed to ensure that risks and is supported by divisional are managed through the life Managing Directors, the Head of of the Groups contracts.
Health and Safety and a network Loss of major contracts of dedicated local health and safety experts.
MITIE places employee MITIE has a number of major contracts training at the forefront of improving which although not individually health and safety standards material by value to the Group are throughout the Group and has important to our future growth.
We continued to develop a safety training adopt a key account management programme covering specic areas strategy for these contracts which of health and safety in conjunction includes Director-level client with the Institute of Occupational relationships.
This helps to ensure Safety and Health IOSH.
that we mitigate the risk of losing any of these contracts.
20 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 21 Overall responsibility for the management of risk lies with the Board.
Other factors not discussed within this statement could also impact the Group and accordingly, this statement should not be considered to represent an exhaustive list of all of the potential risks and uncertainties, both positive and negative, that may affect the Group.
The areas of MITIEs activities to which the principal risks and uncertainties of the Group are perceived to be attributable are set out below.
Principal financial risks Principal compliance risks Employee skill shortages Liquidity Pensions MITIE recognises that there will be Maintaining a sufficient level of liquidity Risk associated with the operation skill shortages in some sectors of and financial capacity is essential to and management of the Groups the business.
This could impact upon enable MITIE to meet its foreseeable pension funds concern the ability our ability to service new contracts obligations and achieve its strategy.
of the pension assets to meet future adequately and subsequently Failure to manage liquidity could pension liabilities.
Within MITIE this MITIEs ability to grow.
impact upon the ability of the Group applies to MITIEs own pension to grow.
Risks impacting upon the schemes and also to pension To recruit and retain the people MITIE Groups liquidity include the ability schemes associated with employees needs, remuneration, incentivisation to manage working capital, limited who have transferred to MITIE under and reward structures are regularly banking facilities and commercial the Transfer of Undertakings Protection reviewed.
The Group continues credit exposure.
its emphasis on share ownership and operates the MITIE Model, The management of liquidity risk is Regarding MITIEs own dened benefit a Save as You Earn share scheme, the responsibility of the Group Treasury schemes, Trustees manage the funds Executive Share Option schemes department which operates within and set the required contribution rates and is proposing to introduce a LTIP.
a framework of policies and based on an independent actuarial A new reward scheme for all procedures which are approved valuation.
This valuation is sensitive employees was launched in the by the Board.
Monitoring of daily to changes in assumptions made year which entitles employees and weekly cash ows by senior regarding future events, including to a series of discounts and offers.
management and the Board ensures mortality rates and the long-term that the activities of the department return on schemes assets.
The funding MITIE places great emphasis on operate within this framework.
position of the schemes is regularly succession planning and the training Furthermore, new five-year committed reviewed.
and development of its employees.
banking facilities of 150m were put As part of this MITIE is dedicated to In respect of pension schemes in place during the year.
providing work based learning and associated with transferring training opportunities and currently employees, the principal risk to employs 241construction, engineering MITIE concerns employees who are and other apprentices.
members of a Local Government Pension Scheme, and the potential Externally, MITIE supports vocational for scheme liabilities to exceed education by providing Construction scheme assets.
MITIE manages this Skills Centres in secondary schools risk by ensuring that appropriate across the UK.
The first Skill Centre was advice is obtained in the bidding and established in 2001, with a further three transfer process, that risk is priced fairly developed in both 2005 and 2006. and that agreement is reached with They provide externally accredited the scheme provider on how potential vocational education for over 400 future liabilities will be met and on students.
A further two Skills Centres the funding position on transfer.
Further information regarding pensions is shown in Note 30.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 22 Operating review continued Business review MITIEs business is structured into three divisions: Facilities Services which delivers services either singly, bundled or as a complete facilities management service, Property Services and Engineering Services.
The market remains competitive although shows signs of consolidation with some smaller suppliers exiting Facilities Services the market.
We have a strong revenue pipeline, and during 2007 we will be launching a dedicated Facilities Services has had a strong year with good transportation team to build on our levels of growth across the business.
The second half experience in aviation to other parts of the broader transportation sector.
of the year was particularly pleasing with a number of substantial single service contract wins.
The forthcoming requirement for security guards in Scotland to be licensed and trained will allow us to 2007 2006 use our experience in England and Wales to secure additional market m m Growth share north of the border.
Revenue 732.1 516.0 41.9% With over 22,000 employees, Cleaning is our largest employer Operating profit 41.5 33.0 25.8% and was the first to operate under the Second Generation Equity Plan.
Operating profit margin 5.7% 6.4% Its strengthened and restructured sales team is winning increasingly Integration costs 2.3 large contracts.
Operating profit Major wins during 2006 07 include HBOS, to clean more than 1,000 before integration costs 43.8 33.0 32.7% of its bank branches around the country.
This is one of our largest Operating profit margin single contracts and, with work that before integration costs 6.0% 6.4% we already do with Barclays and other major banks, consolidates our position as the leading provider of specialist retail bank cleaning position is creating opportunities of Single services in Britain.
a scale previously not available to us.
Security is the largest facilities service Among our specialist cleaning In January, Security extended its business and grew by 177.3% last business, Health and Hygiene, long-established relationship with year.
This growth was principally our specialist food manufacturing Her Majestys Courts Service HMCS attributable to the acquisitions made and healthcare cleaning team, won by securing all seven of the regional in the prior year, but also reected the high prole Great Ormond Street contracts tendered.
The contracts organic growth of 40% for the Hospital account.
Retail won a major are for an initial term of four years enlarged business.
The integration contract to clean over 500 Somereld with the option of a two-year of the manned guarding businesses stores nationwide, while Transport has extension.
Securitys work with HMCS has gone well, and has generated recently been awarded a contract has grown from a regional contract annualised synergy savings of 3m, to provide cleaning services with a value of 8m per annum to of which 2.5m have been realised at Heathrows Terminal 5 T5.
a portfolio of contracts which is now this year.
These activities have worth in excess of 22m per annum.
resulted in the establishment of Over the next year Cleaning will a nationally focused business which be maintaining its concentration We have also focused on the retail is now the UKs second largest on improving client retention.
It will sector, which has signicantly provider of manned guarding also be putting particular emphasis different requirements to other security services.
on working with other MITIE teams business areas, and the successful to expand the level of bundled completion of a short-term contract Security has delivered an excellent services opportunities from our with Marks & Spencer led to sales performance, with client existing client base.
the award of a three-year contract retention in line with expectations.
to cover all stores nationwide.
We are nding that our market 22 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 23 Single services MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 24 Operating review continued For all of the services we provide Cleaning serves ofces and industrial Landscaping includes sports our aim is to be the best.
We buildings, transport, healthcare and ground maintenance, exterior recognise that our customers retail premises and services include landscape design and maintenance want the best possible services window cleaning, recycling and for facilities such as golf courses: from specialists in each area.
and also arboriculture and interior plant care.
That is what we provide: Engineering Maintenance provides heating and ventilating services, Business Services will run post Security provides static, electronic lighting and boiler maintenance, rooms, reception and switchboards, and mobile guarding, as well as plumbing and water hygiene as well as records management remote monitoring services, gallery and estate maintenance.
attendants, warden and key holding services.
Pest Control offers services Catering offers hospitality to manage insects, birds and executive dining, vending and other pests.
Schools, museums and leisure Business Services has developed a Bundled services facilities are included in the large suite of innovative software solutions Over the past few years MITIE and specically non-housing for print management, package companies have experienced contract that Engineering tracking, desktop courier booking a rise in the number of clients who Maintenance won from Birmingham and e-procurement that will be rolled are looking to procure bundles City Council.
Also in Birmingham, out to its clients over the next twelve of services: that is more than one the contract for BULLRING Shopping months.
Our Document Solutions service provided by a single service centre was re-secured.
New business has added a design provider.
With bundles, the client Engineering Maintenance sections and desktop publishing capability is happy to outsource the service specialising in Fire Alarm to its printing and fullment services.
delivery, but retains management Maintenance and Water Treatment The strategy for the next twelve control of the process.
have started and the business has months is to concentrate growth in also invested in a web-enabled the financial services sector in which Bundling can arise in a number system to provide customers with it already holds key contracts and of ways: better asset maintenance reporting.
in the legal and professional sector in which it currently provides services 1.
MITIE provides a single service As well as these three substantial to seven out of the top 20 global which is well received by the client, businesses, we also have four law rms.
who then, over a period of time developing businesses within Facilities adds services as the relationship Services, namely Pest Control, Catering has continued to make matures.
We call this natural Landscaping, Business Services progress during the year.
Natural bundling can and Catering.
Our strategy is to grow the new start-up businesses in involve a single contract with the these businesses to a top five position London and the North of England original service provider: a series in their respective markets.
have achieved contract gains of individual contracts with the including the Brewery in Chiswell St, individual MITIE companies: or a Pest Control made a small London, which is a hospitality venue master or framework contract that acquisition of trade and assets for over 1,000 people, Beechcroft is amended as services are added.
during the year, started a new LLP in Bristol and London and the business in London and continued Matalan distribution centre in 2.
The client wishes to reduce its to make progress towards developing Manchester.
In our Catering business supplier base and negotiates with a national pest control offer.
It also we concentrate on providing fresh a number of providers that can won a five-year contract with BAA, food that is cooked well.
We use only deliver the services.
We call this which includes Heathrow, Gatwick, the best ingredients in terms of both a negotiated bundle.
With this type Stansted and Southampton airports.
food and people to ensure that our of bundle the client typically places customers receive exactly what they as great an emphasis on culture, Following the acquisition of Lyndhurst need.
Our nutritionists work closely relationships and the ability to bring Services Limited in February 2006, with our clients to help produce innovation to the services, as to we integrated it with our existing healthy menus that help combat pure price.
Landscape businesses in December the effects of city living.
In each of the 2006 to create MITIE Lyndhurst 3.
Some clients use bundling simply services we provide our aim is to be Services Limited, under a Second to reduce costs.
We recognise that our Generation Equity Plan.
being that the more work in the customers want the best possible bundle, the more efficiencies will The implementation of Business services from specialists in each area.
result and service providers will Services largest contract, That is what we provide.
accept a lower margin in return with , for the scale and length of the has continued to go well and contract term.
We call this has included the provision of price bundling.
work placements as part of our multiple award winning Real MITIE is involved in all three.
24 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 25 Bundled services MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 26 Operating review continued Our exibility makes sure that we are able to produce a solution that meets the needs of our customers.
The largest bundled contract that Nemex Energy Manager of the Year.
Facilities management we have is with Rolls-Royce.
This Furthermore, an energy awareness We principally provide integrated began eleven years ago as a single and energy efficiency campaign facilities management services cleaning contract on one site.
That that we undertook with the National through our Managed Services developed into a national Cleaning Offender Management Service and PFI businesses.
contract, to which was later added was a nalist in the PFM Partners a mechanical and electrical in Sustainability Award.
We have had a good year in facilities Engineering Maintenance element.
We secured The current order book for this In recent years Catering, Security, a managing agent contract with division is 3.4bn.
Landscaping, Business Services and Cable & Wireless to oversee the Pest Control have been added too.
facilities management service This contract now covers over 900 provision across its UK estate.
We people working on nine sites across were also pleased to be selected the Rolls-Royce estate from Inchinnan to provide services to the UK in Scotland to Bristol.
Government through the Ofce of Government Commerce OGC The British Nuclear Groups Property and facilities management reprocessing plant at Sellaeld has Framework Agreement as well as now become established as our additional services for the Big Lottery second largest bundle.
During Fund and Littlewoods Shop Direct.
2006 07 MITIE won a service contract We were also awarded a three-year at Sellaeld which bundles Cleaning contract with leading biotechnology with Engineering Maintenance work, company Amgen that also includes Security and Business Services.
This Engineering Maintenance, Catering, contract involves over 200 people.
Bundles can originate with any It is this ability to draw together of our businesses, and it is the ability a range of MITIEs service offerings of our managers to make the that is one of our main strengths in connections between one service the facilities management market.
and another, that is driving our We will always choose the service success in this area of the delivery method that is best for the outsourcing market.
That exibility makes sure that we are always able to produce In 2006 07, for example: a solution that meets the needs A Business Services contract with of our customers.
the London Stock Exchange was In the PFI market, we signed five PFI extended to include cleaning: school contracts during the year Goodrich Corporation, a global bringing the number of schools that supplier of systems and services we manage to 85.
This makes MITIE to the aerospace, defence and the UKs leading provider of facilities homeland security markets, management services to PFI schools.
expanded its contract with We are also currently part of three Cleaning to include Waste and consortia tendering for Building Environmental on three Birmingham Schools for the Future contracts.
The services include hazardous An increasingly important part waste disposal, condential waste destruction and industrial recycling of our facilities management service delivery is our approach to energy solutions: and efficiency and the environment.
Bookham Technology has added We have been nominated for a Engineering Maintenance to a number of awards for our approach bundle that began with Catering to the environment and one of our and Cleaning.
managers was recognised as 26 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:05 Page 27 Managed services MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:05 Page 28 Operating review continued Robert Prettie adds signicantly to our range of services in the housing sector.
There has also been strong organic growth across all other areas of the business.
Large painting contracts Property Services have been secured for Angus Council and Dudley Metropolitan Borough Council.
Refurbishment MITIE Property Services provides repair and wins include additional work from BT, maintenance, painting, roong and re protection, Royal Mail and LandSecurities Trillium.
refurbishment, interior t-out services and the supply Our Interiors business won three large and installation of ofce furniture across several contracts for a city institution on their market sectors.
London ofce campus, a large t-out contract for Scottish Widows and a further contract from Standard Life.
2007 2006 The majority of these new t-out contracts will be delivered in the year m m Growth ending 31 March 2008 thus giving Revenue 215.1 163.5 31.6% a strong secured order book for this business stream.
Our Fire Protection Operating profit 10.6 8.9 19.1% business has had a very successful year helped by its involvement in Operating profit margin 4.9% 5.4% the T5 project at Heathrow Airport.
The current order book for this division is 450.3m.
As the social housing market Additional packages of work have becomes increasingly important been secured as a result of our to us we have continued our strategy developing relationship with Milton of reducing our exposure to one-off Keynes Council including disabled refurbishment contracts, striving adaptations and security screening instead for long-term relationships work.
We have had further success through framework or partnership in securing a sizeable contract from arrangements with owners, Stevenage Borough Council for the occupiers, managers or delivery of kitchens and bathrooms, property portfolios.
and Decent Homes Standard work for a number of other We are also focusing on our painting housing associations.
business where we believe we have the necessary skills and experience Since the end of the financial to benefit from the higher margins year we acquired Robert Prettie, and improved cash ows.
a specialist plumbing, heating and mechanical services business Two large social housing contracts concentrating on the housing that started on 1 April 2006 are both market in the Midlands and Yorkshire.
To date we have Robert Prettie employs over 250 staff.
carried out over 112,000 repairs for This acquisition adds signicantly Birmingham City Council on their to MITIE Property Services range southern estate of 27,000 homes and of services in the housing sector reinstated 2,500 empty properties.
On and complements its existing our Milton Keynes contract we have regional operations.
Robert Prettie completed 37,000 routine repairs on works in partnership with Local their portfolio of 12,600 homes and Authorities, Councils, Developers reinstated 1,100 empty properties.
and Registered Social Landlords on kitchen and bathroom installation, heating replacement, gas servicing, maintenance and call out services.
28 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:05 Page 29 Our national presence makes us an attractive partner.
low carbon offer for the construction and improvement of heating, cooling, lighting resilience and Engineering Services motive power within the built environment.
For example, Kingsmead School in Cheshire is Engineering Services covers the design and installation currently the most energy efficient of mechanical and electrical systems, information school in the UK with innovative and communication technology, air conditioning, features from MITIE such as a biomass boiler burning reclaimed utilities infrastructure and retail engineering, serving wood pellets to provide heating: a wide range of clients from many different sectors.
a rainwater recycling system that provides water to ush lavatories: solar panels and photovoltaic cells 2007 2006 generating energy.
Two combined m m Growth heat and power schemes CHP have also recently been installed Revenue 281.6 256.1 10.0% by MITIE Engineering at Sussex University and Bristol University which Operating profit 7.8 6.4 21.9% will generate around 20% of their electrical requirement and reduce Operating profit margin 2.8% 2.5% overall CO2 omissions.
Future prospects for Engineering Services look encouraging in the light The progress of Engineering Services for our Technology division, with of the rationalisation of the industrys this year has been achieved as business critical projects having way of procurement and both new a direct result of a repositioning been undertaken in 2006 for and impending legislation on the strategy.
This began with specic customers such as IBM, Centrica energy performance of buildings.
margin improvements resulting from and Logica and we have an Customers are looking to combine the restructuring of aspects of the extensive pipeline for 2007 and 2008. contracts and enter three to five business, and derived further benefit year commitments to secure supply Activity in the retail and social from a more balanced work mix.
in a market where demand is picking housing sectors has been a We have placed particular emphasis up.
Engineering has the ability and significant contributor within the on developing sectors in which scale to deliver multiple projects period and is expected to maintain we have specic skills that are consistently on a national basis its contribution in 2007.
We continue fundamental to the effective delivery and will be able to take advantage to build on contracts with Primark, of our customers capital projects.
Marks & Spencer and Bhs and We have a strong order book for work closely with a number of The current order book for this 2007 and beyond and our scale housing associations.
and national presence make us We have been actively involved an attractive partner.
We have for some time in the design and framework agreements with application of more efficient forms organisations such as Plymouth of energy generation and University, NHS Wales and the distribution.
More customers are National Physical Laboratory.
seeking to reduce their energy In addition, repeat opportunities footprint and we have invested in are being serviced by the regional the required technical, design and contracting businesses for customers application skills that will be needed such as Urban Splash in Birmingham in the future.
Engineering Services and Cardonald College in Glasgow.
now has the accredited technical The demand for increased resilience competence, delivery capability, of organisations data infrastructure commercial model and track record is providing substantial opportunities that has resulted in a compelling MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29
