BUSINESS REVIEW REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CARBON DIVISION Overview 2007 financial performance We have installed armour manufacturing capability and capacity in a UK site, % The Carbon Division provides engineered 2007 2006 increase giving us a base from which to solutions built on advanced materials Revenue 216.6m 213.6m 1.4 expand further in this growing market.
technology, utilising its expertise in the Operating profit This capability complements the processing and applications of carbon, before one-off items 34.6m 33.8m 2.4 investment that was made during 2007 graphite, silicon carbide, oxide ceramics Operating profit margin in NP Aerospace.
NP Aerospace has and other related materials to serve before one-off items 16.0% 15.8% a strong position with the UK Ministry a global customer base.
of Defence across a range of products.
The financial performance of the Our leading-edge technology solutions The market for our traditional European Carbon Division in 2007 reflects the and broad materials portfolio enable businesses in the electrical brush and ongoing improvement we have made us to engineer numerous products seals and bearings markets remains to the business.
Revenue growth of and to serve a variety of markets from relatively flat and highly competitive.
1.4% 6.3% at constant currency and brushes for motors: body armour for further improvement in the underlying In Asia, almost all of our businesses the defence industry: graphite powder operating profit margin has been have shown excellent, often double for the synthetic diamond sector: seals achieved.
There was strong growth digit, growth.
The Chinese businesses and bearing solutions for the chemical in a number of areas, most notably in have taken advantage of the strong processing and fluid handling industries: our high temperature furnace product domestic market and have benefited graphite soft felt insulation for the range and across the Asia region.
from our significant investment in solar power sector and for the high both manufacturing capacity and temperature processing industries: Our Americas business enjoyed good capability to ensure that this growth and a variety of components for the growth from new product development can be maintained.
aerospace, semiconductor processing and new market development.
In our and space exploration markets.
armour business there was good year-on-year growth, and the armour Divisional structure market in terms of both personnel and With a skilled workforce of some 3,800 vehicle protection continues to offer around the world, our Carbon Division good prospects for 2008 and beyond.
has over 35 manufacturing facilities in In our European business we have seen five continents.
good growth in certain geographies In 2007 revenues were 216.6 million, and in some niche markets.
For example, of which 31.0% was from Europe, 50.5% our Turkey Middle East and East from the Americas and 18.5% from the European businesses have expanded rest of the world.
in terms of spread, capability and capacity and have delivered good sales growth.
Our German-based rotary business has also had another year of strong growth and has established a presence in the rapidly expanding military market.
16 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC BUSINESS REVIEW MAKING WIND POWER WORK Last year, our Carbon Division in Swansea, Wales, entered a new market: wind power.
The Swansea site successfully used its expertise in material science to improve the performance of the power transfer slip ring systems used in wind generators.
The product can withstand adverse weather conditions, including the high humidity and salt corrosive atmospheres of offshore wind farms and the low humidity atmospheres of high altitude.
BUSINESS REVIEW THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 17 Products Markets The Carbon Division strives to meet The markets served by our Carbon todays demanding challenges, providing Division include: IN ASIA, ALMOST ALL OF advanced materials solutions across a OUR BUSINESSES HAVE SHOWN Electrical industrial and traction broad range of industries.
For example, EXCELLENT, OFTEN DOUBLE by working closely with major diamond The Carbon Divison is a leading supplier DIGIT REVENUE GROWTH.
manufacturers, we have produced of component solutions to the rail and graphite and diamond technology mass transit industry and industrial that helps improve efficiency in the markets.
We provide products and extraction of oil and gas.
Products which solutions for motors and collector help enhance sustainability are a major systems.
We use our core technology area of focus.
Carbon has been a portfolio and a global network providing supplier of carbon-based solutions regional support to supply electrical to fuel cell companies for more than current transfer systems from carbon 20 years and has played a major role brushes through to collectors and rotary in industry milestones.
As photovoltaic current transfer products, serving both devices are increasingly utilised to original equipment manufacturers provide solar energy, our strong links and the aftermarket.
into the silicon semiconductor industry Fluid handling are facilitating development of new materials to improve production We supply carbon and silicon carbide efficiencies in both silicon and thin film components for the seals and bearings solar cell manufacturing.
We are also at which are critical to the pumps the heart of many electronic innovations and compressors used in many fluid shaping todays world meaning that you handling industries such as chemical, will find our products in the advanced oil and gas and food processing.
semiconductor manufacturing process With a wide and continually expanding like ion implantation, epitaxy MOCVD range of carbon and silicon carbide and MBE and compound crystal materials, Morgan Crucible is a globally growth.
To help protect the civil defence recognised provider of seal faces, and military forces that face danger bearings, rotors, vanes and other on a daily basis, Carbon has developed technical solutions required for a advanced ceramic solutions that match large variety of applications.
specific ballistic requirements to a variety of advanced materials for armouring people, vehicles and aircraft.
360 SUCCESS FOR ROTARY TRANSFER SYSTEMS Morgan Carbon in Antweiler, Germany, is experiencing high growth with its worldleading rotary transfer systems.
The systems transfer current, power or data to rotating parts.
The technology has many applications, particularly in the industrial, military and wind power markets.
Exploiting the Carbon Divisions wide geographical reach, the business has delivered double-digit annual revenue growth and we believe it is positioned for future positive momentum.
BUSINESS REVIEW THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 19 2007 WAS ANOTHER YEAR OF IMPROVEMENT IN THE PERFORMANCE OF THE DIVISION Defence Electronics ENDURING APPEAL OF THE CARBON BRUSH The graphite carbon brush, grade 634, is an We provide critical protective As integrated circuit manufacturers enduring success story for Morgan Crucible.
components for the worlds marine, strive to make their chips faster, smaller For more than 50 years it has maintained surface and air defence, from nuclear and less expensive, semiconductor a leading position in the power generation industry.
Unique qualities, such as the ability submarines and aircraft carriers, processing equipment companies to run at surface speeds as high as 140mph, tactical and strategic ground vehicles have become more dependent on have made it the brush of choice for OEMs and weapon systems, to fixed and advanced materials to achieve the Original Equipment Manufacturers.
The raw rotor winged aircraft.
In each case, desired performance.
Advanced carbon materials are produced in Fostoria, Ohio, and the finished brush is manufactured at multiple the distinctive characteristics of our material technology is key within the Morgan Crucible sites globally.
The material advanced materials provide a special process chambers that process silicon and our brush designs continue to be solution to a design need.
The roadmap for advanced optimised in order to maintain their strong range of oxide and non-oxide ceramic materials is changing, as the required position and enduring appeal.
technology solutions for vehicle and chip performance increases so does body armour applications, we strive the process temperatures and purity to deliver the best possible protection requirements.
We now offer state-ofagainst new and emerging threats.
the-art purification capability and are working with leading equipment Diamond synthesis OEMs to develop and incorporate We are the leading supplier of highly new materials that will allow them engineered graphite powder used in to meet the future needs of the the manufacture of synthetic diamonds.
Strong construction and oil drilling sectors Outlook mean that demand continues to be robust.
We have invested in developing The Carbon Division continues to deliver technologies that help our customers good results from its traditional core to achieve high yields and to improve markets and is now also seeing the productivity and product quality.
benefit from investment in new business areas.
Our investment in a broader Aerospace materials portfolio has enabled us to We play an important role in the worlds enter new markets and much of our aerospace industry, from commercial recent and planned capital expenditure airliners and military aircraft to the NASA will allow us to further increase our Space Shuttle.
Critical components are capability and capacity in these new, manufactured of carbon and graphite high growth areas such as armour materials for a range of demanding and high temperature materials.
applications, including jet engine main We will continue to refine our shaft bearing seals, electrical brushes manufacturing footprint, whilst for alternators and generators, bearings leveraging low cost manufacturing for fuel pumps, and high temperature opportunities and will ensure that carbon fabrics for insulating systems.
we are well positioned in the high High temperature insulation growth areas.
We are a world leader in the manufacture 2007 was another year of improvement and application of thermal management in the performance of the Division, products, spanning carbon and graphite and was also a year in which investment felt and cloth and machined graphite was made to build our capability to components.
Our product portfolio support profitable growth initiatives includes all graphite related components going forward.
required for demanding applications such as solar, semiconductor, vacuum furnace, high purity fused silica glass, and automotive and aerospace component manufacturing.
Our industry leading purification process ensures high technology applications achieve extremely high purity levels.
20 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC BUSINESS REVIEW ON TRACK WITH SYDNEYS COMMUTERS Through the confirmation of long-term supply agreements, Morgan Carbon in Sydney, Australia, has strengthened its leading market position in supplying bespoke carbon brush products to suburban rail systems.
Wholly customer-focused in our approach, we succeeded in reducing our customers motor failures by 60% over a 12 month period.
Due to the improved reliability and reduced maintenance costs, we were awarded a long term agreement for the ongoing supply of the product.
BUSINESS REVIEW THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 21 WHITENING YOUR SMILE WITH PULSATING BUBBLES Morgan Technical Ceramics in Ohio, USA, is the key supplier to cutting-edge technology company, Ultreo, whose ultrasonic toothbrush has been embraced by consumers.
Our Ohio plant provides the piezoceramic component that generates a sonic signal in the toothbrush.
This forms pulsating bubbles in the toothpaste and has been clinically proven to remove hard-to-reach plaque, improve gum health and reduce stains.
Technical Ceramics worked on the prototype with Ultreo is now producing a designed for manufacture solution with a highly promising future.
22 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC BUSINESS REVIEW TECHNICAL CERAMICS DIVISION Overview from 10.5% to 13.0% driven by a positive product mix shift towards higher margin, With innovative design and application higher value added end markets.
engineering, underpinned by customer The Divisions revenues decreased 6.1% focused research and development, to 152.6 million in 2007 down 2.3% on our Technical Ceramics Division makes a constant currency basis due to a an extensive range of industrial ceramics large US customer coming to the end of products.
These include medical its product lifecycle.
implants, the power tubes used in airport security scanning devices and Globally, the industrial equipment, aerospace components manufactured medical, aerospace and electronics from ceramics, glass, precious metals, segments continued to show good piezoelectric and dielectric materials.
US markets remained healthy and our European business also Most of our output is bespoke.
saw strong performance, particularly We offer full technical support and in laser and power tube products advice to customers throughout their for communications and security product development cycle and equipment.
In Asia the additional we work closely with them to provide capacity recently installed to meet engineering solutions that add value demand for the thermal processing to the end product.
market is now fully utilised and we Divisional structure anticipate further expansion as PROTECTING PACEMAKERS a result.
Driven by demands for increasingly sophisticated Our Technical Ceramics Division medical implants, Morgan Technical Ceramics operates worldwide, providing Products at New Bedford in Massachusetts, USA, has value-added differentiated solutions succeeded in adding value to its already The Division uses materials science for our customers through consistent  including purposeand applications engineering to built capacitors.
Feed-throughs are components focus on applications engineering, make products from a wide range used in medical devices implanted in the research and development, design, body for the delivery of drugs or electrical of ceramic materials with properties and quality.
stimulation for pacemakers, defibrillators and tailored for use in a diverse range neurostimulators.
Capacitors are used to filter The Division has 15 manufacturing of markets.
These include: out electro-magnetic interference from products sites across the USA, UK, Germany and such as mobile phones and neon lights that  Braze alloys for aero engine build could otherwise affect the implant.
By developing China and employs some 2,000 people.
feed-throughs with capacitors, we have increased Europe accounted for 48.5% of the sales and are maintaining our leadership in a 2007 divisional revenue of 152.6 million,  Ceramic components and market where feed-throughs with capacitors are 47.5% was from the Americas, and 4.0% sub-assemblies for aero-engine expected to become the industry standard.
from the rest of the world.
2007 financial performance  Components and sub-assemblies for a broad range of medical % increase applications, primarily implantable 2007 2006 decrease devices, prosthetics and surgical Revenue 152.6m 162.5m 6.1 and diagnostic equipment.
Operating profit before one-off items 19.9m 17.0m 17.1  Components and sub-assemblies used in wafer handling and Operating profit margin before one-off items 13.0% 10.5% processing chambers, serving both semiconductor processing As in 2006, the Division had a particularly equipment manufacturers and strong first half, followed by good wafer fabrication plants.
underlying trading in the second half, making further progress towards mid-teen operating profit margins.
Operating profit before one-off items rose THE DIVISION HAS 15 by 17.1% to 19.9 million and underlying MANUFACTURING SITES operating profit margins increased ACROSS THE USA, UK, GERMANY AND CHINA.
BUSINESS REVIEW THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 23 Markets The laser market continues to grow as devices find new applications and The markets served by our Technical become smaller and more affordable Ceramics Division include: to users.
Applications include cosmetic Aerospace surgery, dentistry, product marking and spectroscopy.
A major driver of the FUEL-LEVEL SENSORS TAKE TO THE SKY We serve the new-build and aftermarket Morgan Technical Ceramics in Southampton, optoelectronics market is the demand in both the commercial and military UK, has proved we can add significant value for surveillance equipment in military aerospace sectors, as a tier 2 supplier to our customers by taking on increased and commercial applications.
Previously a supplier to the major manufacturers and of piezoelectric ceramic sub-assembly units for as a supplier to MRO maintenance, Within the IT hardware market, aircraft fuel-level sensors, we now provide the repair and overhaul companies.
demand for data storage has increased entire unit which forms part of the fuel system Increased demand in passenger and dramatically as more people are using of Boeing 777 aircraft.
With applications engineering and manufacturing techniques cargo traffic is driving the commercial home PCs for music, pictures and videos, that are second to none, Technical Ceramics market, resulting in growth in new builds and advances in technology create took over the process quickly and seamlessly, for single-aisle, twin-aisle, large cargo options for TV recording and playback.
further strengthening our relationship aircraft and regional jets.
Outlook Medical Our Technical Ceramics Division has Long-term durability, biocompatibility good potential for further revenue and and specific mechanical and electrical profit growth, both organically and properties make ceramic materials ideal through acquisition.
The order book for a range of medical applications.
increased strongly during 2007 and An ageing population and a desire our pipeline of new business and new to employ non-invasive surgical product developments remains healthy.
techniques have meant that this sector The business continues to focus on has a need for ever smaller, yet more customers and markets that are complex components.
themselves growing and are less dependent on the general economic We have an extensive portfolio of cycle, such as medical, aerospace, materials combined with innovative and specialist electronic equipment processing techniques such as such as scanners.
ceramic injection moulding, engineered coatings and ceramic-metal In December 2007 we announced that assembly that are enabling medical we intend to acquire the Technical equipment manufacturers to address Ceramics businesses of Carpenter these opportunities.
The transaction is expected to close by the end of the Electronics first quarter of 2008.
These businesses are We supply niche applications within a good strategic fit, and the enlarged the electronics market where our Technical Ceramics Division has products are differentiated by their excellent prospects for revenue growth superior material and or dimensional and operating margin enhancement.
Markets for components We continue to target additional bolt-on and sub-assemblies include acquisition opportunities with attractive telecommunications, lasers and technology and market positions that optoelectronics and IT hardware.
closely fit our strategic priorities.
FUTURE-PROOFING WITH EVA Step change projects can create rapid improvement in financial performance.
Project EVA is one such project with the goal of improving business efficiency while reducing fixed costs.
Technical Ceramics in Stourport has succeeded in achieving this through a reorganisation of the site.
Using funds from the sale of surplus land, the 78 year-old site is being modernised through reinvestment.
The smaller site footprint reduces daily running costs, while investment in the factory enables leaner manufacturing in dedicated areas and effective introduction of new technologies.
Project EVA is on track for completion in 2008.
24 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC BUSINESS REVIEW ACADEMIA AND US Morgan Technical Ceramics in Stourport is working with graduate trainee, Emma Gill, on a project to develop titanium metal injection moulding technology for biomedical applications.
In addition to her work with us, Emma is researching titanium metal injection moulding technology for a Materials Science and Engineering PhD at the University of Sheffield.
Emmas links with the university and Morgan Crucible are further enhanced by her associate status in the Knowledge Transfer Partnership programme which provides Emma with a strong base for building her career.
SMOOTH OPERATORS Technical Ceramics in Allentown, USA has developed scratchresistant coatings for plastic parts that offer promising growth potential.
The coatings can protect screens, displays, cases and battery covers of handheld consumer electronics.
The potential market is large and includes mobile phones, MP3 players and portable gaming stations.
With customers development programmes progressing well, Technical Ceramics plan to target this new market segment in 2008.
26 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC BUSINESS REVIEW INSULATING CERAMICS DIVISION Overview The revenue of the Insulating Ceramics Division rose 7.4% to 324.0 million, Our Insulating Ceramics Division designs OUR EUROPEAN and at constant currency by 10.6%.
and manufactures a wide variety of BUSINESS BENEFITED FROM Although raw material and energy price heat insulation products and is a world A LARGE INCREASE IN ORDERS increases continued from previous leader in insulation and refractory FOR PETROCHEMICAL AND STEEL years, there was a strong focus on technology, fibres, insulating firebricks, PROJECTS IN THE GROWTH implementing sales price rises to castables and crucibles.
ECONOMIES OF INDIA, help counter this.
When combined THE MIDDLE EAST AND CHINA.
Our continuously developing expertise with increased volumes and energy builds close long-term customer efficiency, this led to a rise in underlying relationships.
We provide engineering operating profit margins from 9.2% to solutions to global markets which 11.3%.
Operating profit before one-off include steel making, petrochemical, items was up 31.2% to 36.6 million.
automotive forging and aluminium Thermal Ceramics production, as well as a range of technical solutions for the fields of Our European business benefited emission control, energy saving and from a large increase in orders for fire protection.
Our world-leading petrochemical and steel projects Superwool range of insulating fibre is in the growth economies of India, used in many applications ranging from Middle East and China.
In most automotive equipment solutions and cases these projects were designed power plants to domestic appliances.
and specified by Western engineering companies who demanded quality Divisional structure branded products to be utilised in their The Insulating Ceramics Division designs.
Latin America grew successfully comprises two business units: Thermal in the fire protection, petrochemical Ceramics and Molten Metal Systems.
and copper end markets, while our Thermal Ceramics revenue for 2007 was North American operations showed 291.9 million 2006: 271.2 million and strong top and bottom line growth in Molten Metal Systems was 32.1 million their core businesses.
grew ahead of expectations, with further investment planned for the The Division employs some 3,900 people region in order to meet our growth and has 37 manufacturing sites.
During 2007, the Division has continued During 2007, we finalised the expansion to implement its strategy of geographical of our newest insulating fibre plant in expansion into dynamic emerging Gujarat, India.
We continued to expand market economies.
European operations our readiness for the growth of the accounted for 43.1% of the 2007 full range of branded Superwool divisional revenue, 33.9% was from the products, ready to take advantage Americas, and 23.0% was from the rest of increasing energy awareness in of the world.
The redevelopment 2007 financial performance of the UK manufacturing site is well underway with the new R&D centre % 2007 2006 increase being fully operational by early Revenue 324.0m 301.7m 7.4 2008.
This major investment will Operating profit further enhance our ability to before one-off items 36.6m 27.9m 31.2 establish long-term alliances and Operating profit margin partnerships with major customers before one-off items 11.3% 9.2% in our target industries.
BUSINESS REVIEW THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 27 Molten Metal Systems Markets Revenues in our Molten Metal Systems Our Insulating Ceramics Division targets MMS business rose 5.2% in 2007, the following key markets: 6.7% increase on a constant currency Iron and steel basis partly as a result of strong trading conditions in Asia and partly due We supply heat management solutions to some distributor stock building in to steel making and downstream anticipation of the closure of the UK processes, both direct to steel producers manufacturing operation in April 2008. and through major contractors.
THE OUTLOOK FOR THERMAL Operating profits before one-off items Our solutions help customers to improve CERAMICS REMAINS POSITIVE, increased by 21.9% as tight control operational efficiencies and achieve WITH DEMAND FOR HEAT of fixed costs more than offset rising cost savings.
Our customers include MANAGEMENT AND INSULATING material and energy costs and 20 of the top steel producers and the PRODUCTS INCREASING.
market outlook is driven by capacity Expansion of our production facilities in expansion and technical upgrades.
India and in Germany is well advanced Aluminium and will be ready to absorb additional production when the UK facility ceases Reducing heat loss and improving heat manufacturing.
Construction has also containment is a major opportunity for commenced at our new facility in aluminium producers to improve energy Suzhou, China which should begin and production efficiency.
We service production during the latter part of 2008. both the primary and secondary aluminium sectors.
In addition to our Products products which help improve furnace Thermal Ceramics design and performance, Superwool consumables further enhance The Division designs, manufactures and energy efficiency and performance.
installs engineered heat management Further market growth is forecast for the solutions worldwide and is a world Middle East, driven by the availability leader in insulation and refractory of power from natural gas supplies.
These solutions are used by our clients to dramatically reduce Transportation energy consumption in their processes We supply custom engineered heat and in many applications to help management, noise reduction, filtration minimise emissions.
Key products and friction solutions to the automotive, and brands include: aerospace, motorcycle and truck and  Insulating fibre: in bulk or in blanket bus sectors.
The increasing use of diesel form for a variety of manufacturing engines has provided growth in the applications.
turbocharger business, particularly in the truck market whilst new emissions  Insulating firebrick: in straight or control standards, particularly for heavy slab form, in standard or customtrucks, are driving growth in the designed shapes.
requirement for heat management in  Monolithics: include insulating, catalytic converters.
In the aerospace general purpose and special duty sector increasing demand for passenger dense castables.
and freight transport is increasing the requirement for consumable products Molten Metal Systems for the production of aero engine blades MMS has a leading position in the supply and insulation.
We also supply crucibles of crucibles and also manufactures and foundry consumables to the and services furnaces for melting and automotive sector which is making holding metals and alloys.
MMS also increased use of components cast from offers a range of foundry products molten aluminium alloys with, for example, and equipment used for crucible lifting, increasing fitment rates of alloy wheels.
ingot loading and molten metal management and control.
NEW MMS SITE IN SHANGHAI Morgan Molten Metal Systems MMS is the world leader in foundry crucibles and the leading importer into the Chinese market.
The Chinese market is developing quickly with metal casters looking for technically sophisticated products designed to improve energy efficiency and casting quality.
To meet this increasing demand MMS is investing in a new green-field manufacturing plant in China.
Currently under construction, the plant in Suzhou, near Shanghai, is due to open in the third quarter of 2008 and will utilise the latest materials and production technology.
28 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC BUSINESS REVIEW Petrochemical Precious metal processing PROVIDING INSULATION FOR THE DRAGONS FIRE Focusing on value-added by offering global Our heat management solutions for the We provide crucibles and other foundry sourcing, reliable manufacture, excellent petrochemical sector include products consumables to the precious metal service records, exceptional, reliable quality with high temperature performance refining, reclamation and manufacturing and competitive rates has resulted in Thermal Ceramics UK achieving approved supplier status and resistance to mechanical stress.
High levels of demand for with a major long-term customer.
The Division has Superior insulation enables customers precious metals for use in the autobeen awarded a 1.2 million contract for the to reduce fuel consumption, increasing catalyst, electronics, jewellery and supply of insulated fire bricks for use in the their production and environmental other areas has seen strong prices for construction of Siemen VAIs new blast furnace for Dragon Steel in Taiwan.
We also offer value added a number of precious metals, making supplying standard insulating fire bricks from services such as inspection reports using refining and reclamation viable from Yixing in China and specialist cut and shaped infra-red imaging to highlight energy sources that were previously uneconomic.
insulating fire bricks from Thermal Ceramics loss.
This market has been strong state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Outlook Casalpusterlengo, Italy.
especially in the Middle East, India, China and Eastern Europe.
The outlook for Thermal Ceramics remains positive, with demand for heat Ceramics management and insulating products Our lightweight insulating products help increasing due to the high long-term reduce energy usage and contribute cost of energy and to the demand to increased operational efficiency for environmentally friendly products.
We serve The continued development of the the industry globally, designing and Superwool range of fibre products has engineering solutions in Germany and kept us at the forefront of the market.
Italy and supplying materials from our In 2008 a new Superwool Plus range manufacturing facilities across the world of products will offer many benefits to according to customer requirements.
existing and new customers, bringing greater thermal efficiency and less Power generation weight for the same insulation.
Sales to Our solutions for power generation energy saving and emissions control applications help conserve energy applications will be targeted in 2008, and increase operational efficiency.
as customers actively pursue improved We provide engineered solutions environmental performance and to boiler-makers as well as specialist legislative controls.
products such as abrasion resistant The outlook for Molten Metal Systems and high strength castables.
in 2008 is positive, particularly in Asia The power market saw increased where our efforts will be focused on activity through 2007 especially in the establishment and expansion the heat recovery steam generation of low-cost production sites to address projects which use gas as their main growth in local demand.
fuel: in particular the Middle East markets remain strong.
We anticipate further growth opportunities.
Fire protection Our FireMaster products are used worldwide to protect people and structures against fire.
The growing market opportunity in fire protection for offshore and petrochemical facilities is being addressed through marketing partnerships to offer customers a package of aligned products.
The luxury marine industry is growing and the use of fire retardant paint is increasing, both of which use the Superwool brand of fibres.
BUSINESS REVIEW THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 29
