22 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Operating Review Trains Winning new contracts Revenue for the year was 1,472.1m investment of 44.0m.
We have made 2006: 1,497.6m with normalised an immediate and positive impact in operating profit of 63.3m 2006: terms of customer service such as 49.1m.
These results were ahead of introducing free wi-fi internet access expectations and reflect strong for all customers, not just first class passenger growth throughout the year.
and we are making the 100 day joint There were excellent contributions from improvement plan with Network Rail, one Railway, recently renamed National a top priority.
We know from experience Express East Anglia, and Midland elsewhere that improving performance Mainline, reflecting the growth that can leads to more passengers travelling be achieved in long distance railways on our services.
Further improvements when performance levels are sustained.
will be introduced including real time This is particularly encouraging given running information accessible by that National Express East Coast joined mobile phone: print at home tickets: the Group in December 2007. a website which will enable total journey booking including parking and onward The reduction in revenue reflects the connections in a single visit: and three franchises that left the Group Smartcard ticketing.
In addition more in November: Central Trains, Midland and faster services are scheduled Mainline and Silverlink.
This also impacts from 2010, with the addition of five the cash outflow from this business more trains to the fleet and a further in 2007 and 2008.
25 services providing 14,000 extra We saw strong passenger growth of seats daily.
We believe that growth has been Another major contributor to our strong driven by a number of factors, including revenue performance has been our performance.
Our franchises lead the focus on yield management and pricing way in the performance league tables strategies.
Our industry leading yield with c2c and Gatwick Express at the management capability at Midland top of the tables.
c2c is the best Mainline enabled us to sell otherwise performing railway in Britain and this under-utilised capacity and this strategy Revenue continued high performance is attracting has enabled us to maximise yield good levels of additional off peak across a wide range of tickets and business.
At NXEA we have improved related services.
We have brought punctuality from 87.4% to over 90% all the technology and experience 1, 472.
1m its best year for the franchise to gathered around the Group to the date.
This has been achieved by 2006: 1,497.6m NXEC franchise.
implementing joint performance improvement plans with Network Rail As agreed with the Department for and managing their delivery.
Transport in April last year, Gatwick Normalised operating profit Express will leave our portfolio in June During the year we incurred bid costs 2008 prior to the competition for the of 7.5m 2006: 9.8m.
We were Southern franchise, which we will enter, delighted to be awarded the premier being announced later in the year.
East Coast franchise in August and 63.3m started running the service on 2006: 49.1m 9 December.
This new franchise, which runs until 2015, will receive an 23 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 New look National Express East Coast and East Anglia now carry our new brand identity.
Improving our performance The extra mile Driving down energy use Punctuality at National Express East Anglia rose Gatwick Express regained its top score of 94% National Express East Anglia introduced an from 87.4% to almost 90% in 2007, making it in the National Passenger Survey the biggest energy efficient driver training programme the best year of the franchise so far.
c2c was independent survey of train travelers views and our c2c trains now use regenerative braking the best performing railway in the UK with a making the rail-air link the countrys most across the entire fleet.
popular train company amongst passengers.
24 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Operating Review Buses Working in partnership Revenue for the year was 322.3m Our London operations account for a 2006: 300.8m and normalised quarter of our overall bus revenues and operating profit was 43.5m 2006: we have been pleased to be awarded 40.7m.
Profits have increased in four new contracts during the period our bus division for the first time by TfL.
In December we introduced since 2001 and margins have been five hybrid fuel vehicles into the Travel maintained at 13.5%.
London fleet to operate on the 129 service between North Greenwich and In order to stimulate growth and the Cutty Sark in south east London.
encourage customer loyalty and repeat These vehicles use up to 40% less fuel.
journeys, we did not increase the price In mid February 2008 we received of a number of our travelcard products planning permission for the in 2007.
We achieved 2% passenger redevelopment of the Battersea growth in our deregulated services bus depot in London which will see with increases in both concessionary a doubling of capacity at this site.
Travel Dundee performed well in the We were delighted to sign a ground period.
It was awarded the 2007 breaking voluntary partnership with Scottish Disability and Business Award Centro to deliver improved performance in November for driver training on and customer satisfaction on six key disability and its contribution to routes through Birmingham, Walsall community work with a range of and West Bromwich.
We have set community groups in the city.
ourselves demanding targets and, This award followed Travel Dundee despite only starting the first of the becoming the first UK based urban routes in November, we have already bus company to have 100% low-floor seen year on year passenger growth easy-access vehicles in 2004. of up to 10% on these routes.
These partnership routes provide more frequent services, improved infrastructure, new or refurbished Revenue vehicles with the latest CCTV systems and improvements to timetables and employee training.
The success has given both the Group and Centro real 322.3m confidence to develop further ambitious partnership schemes.
A new jointly 2006: 300.8m agreed network for Dudley, which covers approximately 40 routes, will be rolled out in April this year and it is Normalised operating profit intended that this will form the basis of a wider partnership scheme.
43.5m 2006: 40.7m 25 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Hybrid technology Keeping costs low Working as one Bringing cutting-edge technology to London Passenger numbers grew by 2% in 2007, Three Premier routes across the West Midlands buses, we introduced five new hybrid buses helped in part by an increased emphasis on were developed as a result of a partnership with to the 129 service in North Greenwich last understanding our consumer.
With high-back, soft leather seats, tinted December.
Using up to 40% less fuel, the measures such as freezing the cost of travelcards windows, air-chill systems and the latest digital buses are four times cleaner than travelling by and making student and school travel cards CCTV the new vehicles are part of a plan to car and help minimise our Companys impact available online for the first time.
National Express West Midlands 10% more passengers on key routes and further plans for growth.
26 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Operating Review Coaches New opportunities Reaching our goal Our network of coach services now take fans direct to Wembley from around the UK.
Revenue 231.0m 2006: 207.3m Normalised operating profit 23.1m 2006: 23.7m 27 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Revenue for the year was 231.0m events.
From the start of our association of England as well as providing a wide 2006: 207.3m with a normalised to the end of 2007 we carried 23,000 range of contract management services operating profit of 23.1m 2006: people to Wembley and expect that in the bus and coach sector.
As expected for a start figure to grow as we add more routes.
During the year we became the first up business, National Express Dot2Dot We have also developed similar coach company to fit new child friendly incurred losses in 2007 of 4.8m on arrangements with other venues areas, with child seat belts.
In the rest of our such as the Millennium Stadium coaches were fitted with eight seats coaches business, we have grown and Twickenham.
offering height adjustable seat belts for our top line and increased our margin We believe that coach has a very strong children and isofix fixings for child car through segmentation of our product role to play in Britains future transport seats.
All new coaches will have these and enhanced yield management.
strategy and are encouraged by the facilities provided.
Coaches experienced an excellent increasing support we are receiving The redevelopment and transformation trading year with passenger growth from Government and stakeholders of our main coach hub, Digbeth, of 3%.
This was achieved by the use around the country.
We are responding in Birmingham is well underway.
of yield management, fare innovations to that support by developing and During the second half of the year and changes in our service offering.
implementing a wide range of innovative we completed a seamless move to We have increased direct sales within products and services.
In the summer a new temporary site near Digbeth.
the business with internet sales we trialled a new commuter service The redevelopment is on schedule accounting for 35% of all transactions.
operating between Milton Keynes and to be completed by early 2010.
We believe that greater use of self Canary Wharf in London.
The service, service ticket kiosks, which are now which offers a direct and low cost In November we launched National installed in the majority of our major alternative to rail travel, provides free Express Dot2Dot, a high quality, on coach stations, will continue to wi-fi, seat back tables, electrical plugs, demand, shared ride product, targeted reduce our costs within the business.
GPS tracking and leather seats.
primarily at the business to business Our investment in our retail systems Customers are texted with up to market with significant capability for the has enabled us to accelerate the date information about their services.
business to consumer market as well.
roll-out of yield management across the The trial has gone extremely well and It currently has over 70 vehicles within network, with 1 funfares now offered we are now rolling out this concept its fleet.
The start up of operations has on more than 50 popular routes.
to other destinations where commuter gone well and customer satisfaction flows exist.
ratings are amongst the highest we We are continuing to grow our business have ever seen for any public transport around special events and venues We extended our knowledge of the type service.
where public transport is required and commuter coach market through the travel by private car is discouraged.
acquisition of the Kings Ferry Travel This year we created a unique network Group in November.
Kings Ferry is offering customers direct coach services a well established Kent based coach to Wembley Stadium to enable them operator providing popular commuter to attend both sporting and music travel services in London and the South First Class transfers Commuting by coach Safety on board Connecting central London to Heathrow and 2007 saw our expansion into the commuter National Express coaches now come with Gatwick, Dot2Dot is our new airport transfer coach market, with the launch of a dedicated child-friendly areas as standard a first for the service for London.
At half the price of a taxi, Milton Keynes to Canary Wharf service.
All younger children can be the service offers a cost-effective alternative This was followed by the acquisition of the carried in a child seat, and those aged four and for transferring between hotel and airport.
above in a booster seat with comfort fit belt.
28 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Operating Review North America Keeping them safe Revenue in the division for the year Our Business Transformation initiative was 308.0m 2006: 283.7m is focused on changing our business and normalised operating profit was in order to create the highest margin 37.7m 2006: 39.1m.
In local and highest quality school bus business currency, revenue was US$617.5m in North America.
By fundamentally 2006: US$524.0m and normalised differentiating ourselves from others operating profit was US$75.5m 2006: and with a focus on quality of service, US$72.3m.
As previously announced, we aim to compete more effectively, the expiry of a fuel hedge caused including being uniquely positioned an increase in North America fuel to develop conversion opportunities.
costs of $13m in 2007. Business Transformation is about how to work smarter and more efficiently, Following the successful sale of Stewart how to respond to new competitors Airport in October, we are now focused and look at creative ways to grow our on school bus provision.
We are also investing in operations performed well during the systems and tools which meet the year despite the increasingly competitive demands of our planned growth.
Whilst 2006 had seen our During 2008, we will spend $31m best bidding season, 2007 surpassed and expect net benefits to arise in this record with $38m of new business 2009.
Full year benefit will commence being won and a retention rate of more in 2010.
To complement our Business than 95% of contracts.
Following our Transformation we are formalising our entry into two new states, Tennessee environmental practices by creating an and South Carolina, the division now industry leading environmental strategy.
operates in 27 states and two Canadian provinces.
During the period we As with all our businesses, safety is our acquired three small bolt-on operations prime concern and we were delighted which were integrated into the business.
to see a further significant improvement We are currently seeing lower levels of in preventable accidents in 2007 from business coming out to tender, partly an already low base.
because of the cycle of contracts Revenue coming up for expiry and also because the competitive landscape is going through a period of change.
Even so, we are well placed to be successful in 308.0m the bidding opportunities that arise.
2006: 283.7m Normalised operating profit 37.7m 2006: 39.1m 29 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Growing up Transforming our business Safety first North America experienced another strong Our Business Transformation initiative will allow Our newly created safety awards assign points bidding season in 2007 with more than us to take advantage of our size whilst being to drivers who exceed safety performance $38m in new business and a retention flexible enough to offer a quality service that standards.
Designed to promote high standards rate of over 95%.
meets the needs of our customers, ensuring we of driving, the key to success lies in safety compete in an evolving market place.
Extending our reach Following our entry into two new states, we now operate in 27 states and two Canadian provinces.
30 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Operating Review Spain Leading the way Driving forward 2007 has seen us consolidate our position as the number one private transport operator in Spain.
Revenue 298.0m 2006: 249.3m Normalised operating profit 50.9m 2006: 44.3m 31 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Revenue was 298.0m 2006: procedures within Continental Auto.
to our customers, and e-tickets were 249.3m and normalised operating We are in the process of consolidating rolled out on long distance routes.
our maintenance facilities and the fleet We are also reviewing our overall In local currency revenue was 434.9m purchasing process.
distribution costs and are pleased 2006: 365.6m and normalised that 15% of all sales for long distance During 2007 we negotiated the profit was 74.3m 2006: 65.0m.
and regional services are now via extension of a number of contracts 2007 results include a three month the internet.
which now means we do not have contribution from Continental Auto.
any concessions expiring before With over 60% of the Spanish transport Trading improved in the second half 2013.
Competition pressures exist market represented by bus and of 2007 and we achieved a full year within the market however and we coach, we believe there are plenty of margin of 17.1%.
have responded to the entry of low opportunities for growth particularly Following the successful acquisition cost airlines and the development in the urban bus market.
We also of Continental Auto, we reinforced our of high speed rail by varying our believe that when future liberalisation position as the number one private frequency, adapting our prices and of the public transport market in Spain transport operator in Spain.
We believe altering our network to provide occurs, we are well positioned to bring that this positions us well to access new complementary services.
our experience and market presence market opportunities in Spain as well to bear.
In addition we secured non regulated as driving a more sales and marketing work outside the formal concessionary orientated agenda in our existing arrangements which we believe arises businesses.
Continental Auto has from having the scale of operations a higher proportion of urban and and the expertise to deliver on a timely commuter services which balance and consistent basis.
the long distance services the largest part of Alsa.
The integration of We are developing our product offering Continental Auto is proceeding to plan, in the market.
In October we launched both in terms of timing and synergies the new Supra class incorporating a delivered, adjusting and optimising revised on-board catering offering and resources.
We have already fully wi-fi, being the first transport mode integrated our finance, sales and routing in Spain to incorporate this facility.
systems and implemented safety In addition we launched a new loyalty management and financial control card Bus Plus which provides benefits Growth through acquisition Business travel Bus Plus Continental Auto was a key acquisition for The launch of the new Supra class provides a In 2007 we launched the customer loyalty the Group in 2007.
Spain is one of the fastest business class of vehicle for travellers in Spain.
card Bus Plus, providing customer benefits, growing European public transport markets Incorporating new high-spec vehicles, on-board and e-tickets were rolled out on long and we are now in a unique position to catering and wi-fi, the coaches are setting the distance routes.
standard for how we develop our UK commuter coach services.
