OPERATIONAL REVIEW 0607 Equally pleasing, we have seen the proportion of vehicles disposed of through HIRE RATES STRATEGY FOR GROWTH REVIEW OF CURRENT YEAR our retail and semi-retail channels increase to 16% 2006 12%.
This has The slightly less competitive pricing environment in Spain has allowed us, In January 2006 we announced a new three-year rolling strategic plan been possible due to both the improved supply of good quality clean vehicles once again, to increase hire rates modestly such that the average hire rate UNITED KINGDOM AND REPUBLIC OF IRELAND aimed at maintaining annual double-digit earnings growth.
The key being generated by the AVR business and by the continued development of was up by 1% over the prior year.
This benefit is partly offset by the additional During the year ended 30 April 2007, fleet growth has been modest but elements of that plan were: our retail and semi-retail brands.
We have raised our medium-term target depreciation arising from a similar increase in the capital cost of new vehicles.
has been compensated by improved utilisation and a more benign hire for these channels to 20% of total disposals.
There continues to be a shortage UK & Republic of Ireland rate environment when compared to the prior year.
In addition used vehicle USED VEHICLE SALES of new light commercial vehicle product, which naturally leads to less supply residual values have been particularly strong, principally as a result of An increase in the fleet size, both by acquisition and organic growth During the year we have disposed of 12,200 vehicles 2006 4,900 which into the used market and, as a consequence, an improvement in used shortages in new product in a number of categories leading to a similar The introduction of a fleet management product gave rise to a small profit on disposal in line with our expectations of vehicle residual values.
We are not aware of circumstances which will reduction in the number of vehicles entering the used market.
This has been offset against vehicle depreciation in change this situation in the short term and therefore expect to achieve A reorganisation of the business to create a more streamlined accordance with our accounting policies.
These disposals were achieved similar disposal values in the current calendar year.
hire company network and to implement a functional, rather than When combined with the benefits of the AVR acquisition referred to from a network of 11 locations, with some 5% of the total being delivered geographic, management structure.
above, this has seen UK profit from operations improve by 22% to 71.7m The effect of the increase in the proportion of our retail and semi-retail through our semi-retail and retail channels.
It is our intention to develop 2006 58.8m.
sales, coupled with the strong used vehicle market, gave rise to a profit on Spain these channels further in the year ahead in order to achieve a medium-term disposal of 8.5m 2006 2.2m which, in accordance with our accounting goal of 8% of total disposals from these routes to market.
Acquisition of the remaining 51% of the equity of Record DEPOT NETWORK policies, was offset against the vehicle depreciation charge for the year.
Following the restructuring of the business, we now operate through 20 hire Continued double-digit organic fleet growth The move towards a common IT platform continues and the Record system companies, ranging in vehicle fleet size from 1,400 vehicles to 6,000 vehicles.
FLEET MANAGEMENT has now completed its upgrade and is ready to roll out in Fualsa.
This process To obtain the synergies available from combining certain functions In addition we have 62 branches, producing a total network of 82 locations.
In its first full year of ownership, FTL, our fleet management subsidiary, is expected to complete within the current financial year, after which we will in our two Spanish businesses.
In the year ahead we would not expect the overall number of locations to produced a profit from operations in line with our expectations at 0.6m.
be able to secure further efficiencies in the combined business.
change materially, although we do expect to relocate a number of hire We are delighted that these objectives have been substantially achieved Revenue from FTL was 6% higher compared to the previous 12 months companies as they outgrow their existing facilities.
Although fleet growth in the UK was below our planned levels trading period, although the Group did not have ownership for the whole of OTHER TERRITORIES we have put additional measures in place designed to achieve our target that prior year.
We remain confident that FTL will enable us to sell a broader VEHICLE FLEET AND UTILISATION level of growth of 5% per annum in future periods.
Our search for another jurisdiction has been stepped up a gear and we are range of solutions to our customers and to utilise better our sizeable We ended the year with a fleet size of 65,300 vehicles, representing growth now actively examining a number of markets for potential targets.
As we have network of repair facilities thereby delivering a more significant contribution of 2%.
However, as a result of the improvement in utilisation referred to below, In the year under review our UK business has enjoyed the benefits of the previously indicated, our success in Spain came as much from identifying in future periods.
Equally important is the visibility it provides into the the number of vehicles on hire has increased by 3% since the beginning of acquisition of AVR, the integration of which was concluded by 30 April the right company to acquire as it did from entering the right market.
owned market which, as mentioned above, will assist us in converting the financial year.
The internal restructuring of the UK business undoubtedly 2006.
We have also introduced a fleet management product to our owners of commercial vehicles to renters.
had a short-term adverse effect on our sales activity during the year, as did customers through the acquisition of Fleet Technique Limited FTL, Whilst our initial research suggests that there are no rental businesses our determination to protect our hire rates and as a consequence we fell streamlined the number of hire companies from 35 to 20 and revised of the size of Fualsa when we acquired it, we are confident that our flexible SPAIN short of our growth target of 5% per annum.
Going forward we now have a the management structure.
rental product will create demand once offered and that we will be able to settled sales structure and an enlarged marketing resource to focus on the grow quickly, even if it is from a lower base.
In line with the timetable in our On 11 May 2006 we acquired the remaining 51% of the share capital In Spain we acquired the balance of the share capital of Record on 11 May 90% of the market that owns commercial vehicles.
In particular we expect to strategy for growth, we would expect to move forward with an acquisition of Record, making us the leader in the growing Spanish vehicle rental 2006, grew the fleet by 17%, created a unified management structure to be able to utilise our fleet management business and our recently relaunched during this financial year.
market with a combined fleet size for Fualsa and Record, at that time, take the business forward and obtained some economies of scale as a sale and rentback product as a conduit to convert those users.
result of effectively doubling the size of our business.
Steve Smith We achieved a utilisation rate of 91% for the year, up 1% over the prior Chief Executive Since May 2006 the fleet has grown by 17% to 55,000 vehicles, comfortably As a consequence of these achievements, the Group has increased profit year and the highest rate we have delivered since 1997.
The improvement ahead of our targeted growth of 15%.
At the same time improved operational from operations by 50% and, despite an increase in the interest charge in utilisation was one of the efficiencies expected to be delivered by the procedures have enabled utilisation to improve to 90% 2006 89%.
due to interest rate increases and higher levels of net debt, achieved an streamlining project and we are pleased to report the progress to date.
increase in underlying profit before tax of 29%.
Whilst the customer base of our Spanish business continues to be HIRE RATES dominated by the construction sector, which represents 58% of our total The resultant increase of 24% in our adjusted earnings per share represents During the prior financial year hire rates came under pressure in a very revenue, this proportion is lower than in prior years when it peaked at 65%.
an excellent start for year one of our latest strategic plan.
This situation eased in February 2006 and we can The reduction indicates that other sectors are growing at a faster rate than report that for the financial year ended 30 April 2007 hire rates were stable in construction.
As with many construction enterprises in the UK, the activities the UK and have remained so in the early part of the current financial year.
of Spanish construction companies now encompass service as well as project based business.
Further analysis of our construction customer USED VEHICLE SALES activity indicates approximately 11% of the 58% is related to service provision We have exceeded the prior year record of selling 23,000 vehicles, with total such as facilities management and the remaining 47% is derived from disposals for this year of 24,700 vehicles.
To enable us to achieve this volume construction projects many of which are funded from central government of disposals, we had increased our used vehicles sales network to nine or the EU Structural Fund.
It remains our intention to reduce this locations in the previous financial year.
dependency over the medium term.
DEPOT NETWORK Whilst the network of 35 locations has not increased during the year, we have relocated five branches to larger premises to accommodate the growth in the fleet.
Looking forward, we do not expect to extend the network significantly as we already have good geographic coverage across Spain but we do anticipate further relocations as the fleet continues to grow.
NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
